

401 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Don't Tread on Me;
A Road to Truth Paved With Fingerpointing

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
ONE of Thomas Nast's most famous political cartoons of the last days of the corrupt Tweed Ring, which ran the Tammany Hall political machine and New York City from 1866 to 1871, shows the group's leaders standing in a circle, each pointing a finger at the man to his right. The cartoon's label reads, " 'Twas Him."
The same refrain is being heard as Congressional investigators try to figure out what went wrong with defective Firestone tires that are blamed in close to 150 deaths around the world, mostly in Ford Explorer sport utility vehicles equipped with the tires. 
 The Ford Motor Company accuses Firestone of making poor-quality tires and of failing to tell the automaker's officials when they asked whether there was a problem. Firestone acknowledged last Tuesday that it made "bad tires," but blames Ford for the Explorer's tendency to do cartwheels when a tire fails at high speed. Firestone's unionized workers point at replacement workers who made tires in Decatur, Ill., during a labor dispute from 1994 to 1996, when tire quality appears to have been worst of all.
Republicans criticize the Clinton administration's regulators for not spotting the problem sooner. Democrats fire back that it was the Reagan administration that killed proposed tire safety regulations in 1981 and cut the federal budget for traffic safety regulation so deeply that, as is clear when the figures are adjusted for inflation, it has never recovered.
The only people in the whole tire fiasco who seem happy are the personal injury lawyers, who are looking forward to more huge fees. But they say little about why they kept almost two dozen fatal crashes out of a federal database of safety problems for years, even as they quietly filed multimillion-dollar lawsuits against Firestone and sometimes Ford as well.
In truth, there is plenty of discredit to go around. It sometimes seemed during Congressional hearings over the last two weeks as though everyone involved was simply sniping at one another. Yet each revealed another piece of the puzzle that another might have tried to hide, yielding a much fuller picture of what went wrong.
Firestone made poor-quality tires, although the precise reason why the tires' treads are loosely attached to the steel and rubber inside may require further weeks or months of sleuthing.
The fairly low pressure that Ford and Firestone chose for the tires, 26 pounds per square inch, made the problem worse. As John Lampe, Firestone's executive vice president, has mentioned over and over, vehicles are supported mostly by the air in a tire, although the structure of the tire itself plays a role. Lousy tires with little air in them -- the tires also seem to have been prone to leaks -- are a doomed combination.
Yet tire problems alone do not explain the extraordinary deadliness of crashes involving Firestone tires. The number of the tires replaced under warranty before the recall, a rough indication of how often the tires were falling apart, was fairly low, just four-tenths of 1 percent, according to documents obtained by Congressional investigators.
The problem lay in how often people were killed when the tires failed. The death rate per 1,000 warranty claims appears to have been more than 80 times higher in the current recall than in the only other big tire recall in American history, the 1978 recall of Firestone 500 tires.
The deadliness of the tire failures is particularly surprising because all of the vehicles equipped with the current tires had smooth interiors with rounded edges designed to cushion occupants during impacts, and many had air bags. Yet occupants were more likely to die than in the cars of the 1970's, which still had plenty of sharp edges inside and no air bags. And most people in the 1970's did not use seat belts.
One reason that the current crashes are so lethal may be that people have been driving faster since the end of the national speed limit of 55 miles per hour. Most of the deaths for which a speed is known were in sport utilities going faster than 55, and even a seat belt and air bag provide limited protection at such speeds.
But a big part of the answer seems to be that most of the deaths linked to the current bad batches of Firestone tires occurred in sport utilities that rolled over, something that few of the cars with bad tires in the late 1970's did. One striking feature of the current string of crash deaths is that all involve sport utilities, usually Ford Explorers, even though an unknown but apparently substantial number of the bad tires were also mounted on pickup trucks. Fully 80 percent of the deaths in sport utilities involved rollovers, the deadliest kind of crash.
Rollovers have been a problem for sport utility vehicles since the invention of the Jeep at the start of World War II. Firestone's Mr. Lampe even went so far as to testify last Tuesday that the tire maker missed evidence of a tire problem as it began receiving damage claims and lawsuits because it simply expected large numbers of sport utility vehicles to roll over. Mr. Lampe and Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive, each pointed out last week that the tire problems accounted for a tiny share of all fatal rollovers in Explorers.
"We believed until recently that the accidents and claims reported were simply part of supplying a large number of vehicles like the S.U.V.'s and light trucks," Mr. Lampe said.
For various reasons relating to engineering and physics, the difficulty of controlling a vehicle that has lost a tire increases with the height of its center of gravity. Sport utilities have high centers of gravity, making them harder to control with just three tires and more prone to roll over.
While the number of sport utilities rolling over has been climbing because there are more of the vehicles on the road, the frequency of rollovers per million sport utilities has actually been declining for years, as automakers have made their S.U.V.'s much bigger and heavier. For crashes of all types, including those not involving rollovers, sport utilities now have no higher an overall death rate for occupants than cars. This is because many of the rollover deaths that used to occur in sport utilities have been effectively transferred in recent years to the cars they hit. Automakers have been losing rollover lawsuits for decades but have never been successfully sued for the damage that their products inflict on other vehicles and their occupants.
The Explorer has a lower frequency of fatal rollovers than most midsized sport utility vehicles, although Explorer occupants are still twice as likely to die in rollovers as occupants of midsized cars. That has led some Ford officials to suggest that if a less stable sport utility had been equipped with the same bad batch of tires, the results might have been even deadlier.
Some of Ford's rivals agree. "To some extent, I'm surprised this kind of thing hasn't happened before," said one engineer at another automaker, adding that tire making "isn't a science, it's an art."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man grieved for his son, 10, after their Ford crashed in Texas on Sept. 3. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Ford Motor Company executives on Capitol Hill. (Associated Press)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TIRES (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (75%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); TIRE MFG (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); PERSONAL INJURY (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STRIKES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



402 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Britain's Stormy Petrol

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Tony Blair showed real backbone last week. Faced with a stunningly effective blockade by truckers protesting high fuel prices, the British prime minister flatly refused to give in to demands for tax cuts. The initial result was extensive disruption -- not just closed gas stations but shortages of bread and milk in supermarkets, delays in medical procedures and in general a state of chaos all too reminiscent of the U.S. gasoline shortage of 1979. By the end of the week, however, the protests seemed to be subsiding in Britain (though similar protests were still growing elsewhere in Europe). So for the time being Mr. Blair has won -- though no good deed goes unpunished, and he is likely to pay a heavy political cost for his stand on principle.
But Britain's fuel crisis -- and even more important, the public reaction -- may have implications that reach far beyond the political prospects for Mr. Blair and his party.
There is little question that Mr. Blair was right to be so intransigent. It's true that because of the high taxes the British government levies on petroleum products, gasoline and diesel fuel are very expensive, even compared with prices in other European countries. (Gasoline currently costs about $4.25 per gallon.) But the overall tax take of the British government, while high by U.S. standards, is actually low by European standards. Basically, high taxes on fuel are more than offset by lower general sales taxes and income taxes -- and any reduction in fuel taxes would eventually have to be matched by increases in other taxes. 
 And there are good reasons why fuel should be singled out for high taxation. Among other things, traffic congestion is, believe it or not, a much worse problem in Britain than in the United States. A tax that discourages motorists from getting on the road and hence getting in the way of other motorists serves a social purpose over and above the revenue it raises.
Even if Britain should eventually decide to tax fuel less and other things more, there's a question of timing: reducing fuel taxes in the face of a world oil shortage would be a terrible idea. There's the question of precedent: if Mr. Blair had given in to the protest on fuel prices, he would in effect have signaled every other interest group with a plausible grievance that disruptive protests were an effective political tool.
Also, cutting taxes on oil when oil prices rise gives exactly the wrong signal to the oil cartel. It tells the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries not to worry -- higher oil prices won't reduce sales because importing nations will make sure that those higher prices aren't passed on to consumers.
So Mr. Blair has the theory of the case on his side. Yet according to polls the vast majority of Britons sided with the protesters. And the same is apparently true in the rest of Europe.
Why do fuel-price protests command such wide support? American conservatives -- and Britain's hapless Conservative opposition -- would like to think of this as an anti-tax movement. After all, don't truckers want a cut in fuel taxes? But while the letter of the protesters' demands may involve tax cuts, the spirit of the protest is quite different. This isn't a rebellion against taxes per se: it's a rebellion against markets. In effect, European truckers have been saying that it isn't right that they should suffer just because the world price of the fuel they need has gone up.
It is a telling detail that the wave of European fuel-price protests began in France, the Western nation that has been most reluctant to let market forces rip. Of course the government of France, true to form, quickly caved in to the protesters' demands -- to the fury of other European governments that are trying to make a stand on principle. But it turns out that the French are not that exceptional -- even in post-Thatcherite Britain most people support the truckers.
What this says is that what seems to be the defining feature of Western political economy at the turn of the millennium -- the triumph of free-market ideology -- is far less complete than some would imagine. Ordinary people, when push comes to shove, feel that sometimes the market just isn't fair -- and have sympathy for those who protest that unfairness, even if those protests adversely affect the population at large. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GASOLINE (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CARTELS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SALES TAX (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (57%); 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



403 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Is Rekindling Land Dispute With Guyana

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela

 BODY:
Irritated by the decision of neighboring Guyana to allow an American company to build a satellite-launching center in territory that Venezuela claims as its own, President Hugo Chavez has revived a long-dormant border dispute.
Mr. Chavez maintains that the planned space site is a Trojan horse that threatens Venezuela's security by enabling the United States to establish a military presence along his country's vulnerable eastern flank. 
 But he also describes the project as an affront to Venezuela's sovereignty, arguing that the real border between the two countries is the Essequibo River and that Guyana should be forced to relinquish some two-thirds of its 83,000 square miles.
"That territory is ours," he said last month.
Though he pledged "a policy of peace and calm" and promised there would be no war, he also accused the Guyanese government of having made a deal under the table and warned that Venezuela "will not allow this base" to be built.
Since taking office 19 months ago, Mr. Chavez, a former army colonel who in 1992 led an unsuccessful coup, has made the Essequibo issue a personal crusade. In what is clearly a reference to the dispute, a new constitution drawn up at his insistence states that the only borders Venezuela recognizes as valid are those established by "treaties and arbitrators' rulings not flawed by nullity."
Venezuela has claimed the region, believed rich in minerals and oil, since gaining independence from Spain early in the 19th century. In 1899 an international tribunal awarded most of the territory to Britain, then the colonial power in Guyana, but Venezuela has periodically protested the outcome, and in 1983 the matter was referred to the United Nations. The latest United Nations envoy appointed to try to resolve the dispute, Oliver Jackman, called on both sides last month to "tone down the rhetoric." The recent increase in tension has created "grounds for alarm," he said on a visit here.
Although Mr. Chavez has repeatedly described the site as an American military base, both Guyana and the American company involved in the deal, Beal Aerospace Technologies, say that is not correct. In May, the Guyanese government signed an agreement with the private concern that would allow it to launch satellites from the site if the United States government approves the export of sensitive technology.
"We will need to get export licenses in order to build on the site and bring rockets out of the United States for launching from the site," chosen because of its proximity to the Equator, said David Spoede, a spokesman for the company. "Typically, the State Department requires that a U.S. government observer be present to prevent proliferation of missile technology," but Mr. Chavez's accusation of a military base "couldn't be further from the truth."
President Bharrat Jagdeo of Guyana met with Mr. Chavez at a conference of South American leaders in Brasilia this month. "I gave him a copy of the contract so that he could see for himself that there is no intention, or anything written into it, that would allow the establishment of an American base," Mr. Jagdeo said after the meeting.
Some Venezuelan critics of Mr. Chavez, like former President Carlos Andres Perez, have dismissed the campaign as part of a "policy of permanent confrontation" intended to distract the country's 24 million people from mounting economic and social problems. "It's absurd," Mr. Perez said of the border claim in a television interview. "It is impossible to regain that territory."
Mr. Chavez's insistence on pursuing the claim has generated concern throughout Latin America, where several other border disputes remain unresolved, and in the English-speaking Caribbean.
Despite the Venezuelan warnings, Guyana has made it clear that it intends to move ahead with the space project. With only 850,000 people, the country is trying to attract foreign investment and diversify its economy, which depends heavily on mining and agriculture.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Venezuela shows location of the proposed base: Venezuela opposes a planned satellite-launching base in Guyana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); GUYANA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: EQUATOR (51%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); GUYANA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); EQUATOR (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (70%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



404 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE ELECTORATE;
In a Working-Poor Town, Candidates Are Dismissed as Being Out of Touch

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

DATELINE: CROSS CITY, Fla., Sept. 14

 BODY:
The Greyhound seems to carry more people away from here than it ever brings back. Cindy Lamb works the cash register at the bus stop, and, one ticket stub at a time, she sells young people a way out of Dixie County.
"There's nothing for them here but the logging in the woods, or at a sawmill," she said, making change at the Chevron station that also serves as the bus depot. Her own son left to find work in the Georgia carpet mills. 
 Outside, people buy gas $5, $10 at a time. Gas just went up 2 cents a gallon here, which is a lot, Ms. Lamb said, to a man who watches his paycheck trickle much too fast into the tank of his pickup.
People complain to her about hard times, low-paying jobs and high gas prices because her counter is a way station in this town of just over 2,000 people in northwest Florida. They blame the federal government in a vague, distrusting way, but even in an election year, a year when the nation will choose a new president, there is little talk of voting for change, or of voting at all.
People here look at Al Gore and George W. Bush and see two men born to the country club, men whose family histories jingle with silver spoons. They appear, to people here, just the same.
"I don't think they think about people like us, and if they do care, they're not going to do anything for us," said Ms. Lamb, 41, who has lived in Cross City since 1969. "Maybe, if they had ever lived in a two-bedroom trailer, it would be different."
"I don't think either one of those men running for president has ever had to worry about where their next paychecks are coming from," said Ms. Lamb, who said she was registered to vote but cannot remember the last time that she did. "I don't think they ever had to throw watermelons around in a field."
It is not just apathy, say Ms. Lamb and others here, that will keep people away from the polls on Election Day in Dixie County, a county with a tradition of low voter turnout, the lowest in Florida in 1998 and 1996.
It is anger, over being ignored and, in some ways, left behind.
Poorer people here never felt any connection with Republicans. But, as Mr. Gore has moved to the nation's political center, people like Aundray Dogain who work in low-paying jobs know that means they are being left behind. The disillusionment here with the national candidates runs so deep that though the roads are lined with political signs for local politicians, there is no sign of Mr. Bush or Mr. Gore in Dixie County.
"They look the same to me," said Ms. Dogain, 31, who manages a shift at the McDonald's in Cross City. She says she believes her life will remain the same, no matter which political party wins.
It always has.
It was Mr. Gore, people here point out, who pushed so hard for the North American Free Trade Agreement, which, they say, has led to the closing of manufacturing plants around the country and sent jobs to Mexico.
"Why vote? I don't want to waste my time," said Ms. Dogain, a single mother who must feed, clothe and care for three children on a paycheck that brings in little more than the minimum wage, which is $5.15 an hour. "I don't even pay attention to those two, and all my friends say the same thing. My life won't change."
She does not want charity, she said, just a candidate who seems to be sincere when he talks about poor people.
Bill Clinton promised poor people health insurance, people here in Dixie County point out, and a Republican-controlled Congress shot his plan down. It was the last time people here remember a candidate who at least tried to do anything that would help their lives.
"I dream of having a bigger house, a better car, a piece of land, but I don't think politicians are going to help me get that," said Ms. Dogain, who owns her three-bedroom mobile home and drives a 1987 Dodge Caravan.
She hears Al Gore talk about continuing the nation's prosperity and she cringes.
She hears George W. Bush talk about how things could be done so much better, and she cringes again. She knows what the Republicans mean when they talk about good times, and she believes that it seldom includes a 31-year-old black woman who works in the heat and grease of a fast-food restaurant.
"They use people like us to get votes, and they don't end up doing anything good for us," said Ms. Dogain, who said she had not voted in the past decade and would not vote on Nov. 7.
It is not just this election that has people uninspired, if not angry. It is a series of elections.
In 1998, when Mr. Bush's brother, Jeb, won the race for governor of Florida, only 31.9 percent of Dixie County's 9,898 registered voters went to the polls, compared with the state average of 49.5 percent.
In 1996, when President Clinton won his second term, a surprising 48 percent of Dixie County voters turned out, but the county still had the lowest average turnout in a state in which 67.4 percent of voters turned out.
"My vote won't help me, it won't help my family," said Tracy Hunt, 25, a manager at the Hardee's restaurant in Cross City. "It doesn't matter. That's the harsh reality."
"They say they care," Mr. Hunt said. "This is just to get in. This time next year, it'll be a different ballgame."
To Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore, he said, Dixie County is a "faraway land," of people who do not matter, and "too small of a town" to even worry about.
Mr. Hunt's father is a foreman in a lumberyard and his mother owns a small crafts business. He is divorced, and had to move back in with his parents.
He is training for a new job in computers. Almost everyone in Cross City talks about computers as if they are an employment promised land.
The most angry -- and dejected -- people in Cross City are not people sitting around waiting for welfare. That is not the help they want.
They want jobs. They want new plants. They say they want an old-fashioned politician who does not speak of the global economy as an excuse for the lack of jobs.
Instead, they say they get politicians who lobby Congress for legislation to send jobs away.
They are no longer even sure what they want from a political champion.
They just know that they do not have one, and say they have given up on ever having one.
"People here work hard," Ms. Lamb said. And while they survive, they seldom prosper. She and her husband, a construction worker, rent a house. They asked the landlord if they could rent to buy, and he said he would think about it.
"It's old, but it's a good little house," she said. "I sure would like to have it."
It is the real world that they live in, she says, a world that the presidential candidates have no connection with.
"A lot of people don't care any more," Ms. Lamb said. "Life doesn't get any better. The politicians don't bring any industry. If you don't have the silver spoon in your mouth, you join the Army or you leave."
"Yesterday, gas went up to $1.61 from 1.59. Those guys," she said of the candidates, "don't worry about things like that. But it's a lot."
It is an ugly thought, she said, but it crosses her mind now and then. She thinks the candidates would be happier if people like her did not exist at all.
"Then," she said, "they don't have us complaining."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The proliferation of signs for local politicians in Dixie County, Fla., and the absence of signs for Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush reflect the disillusionment with both candidates expressed by people here. Cindy Lamb, below, says, "Whether I vote or not, there'll never be a change."; "Why vote?," said Aundria Dogian, a manager at McDonald's. "I don't want to waste my time." (Photographs by Jon M. Fletcher for The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida shows location of shows location of Dixie County: Dixie County, Fla., where voter turnout is traditionally low.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SAW MILLS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICS (72%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); FAMILY (68%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



405 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Oxford Journal;
25 Flavors On a Farm That Won't Give Up

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER

DATELINE: OXFORD, Conn.

 BODY:
Dave Rich, an old-fashioned dairy farmer who long ago perfected his thousand-yard stare, has a simple explanation for why he hasn't sold his 100-plus green acres to developers.
"Too stupid," he said. Silence. Off in the distance, crows cawed. A minivan motored by. The sun dipped. After a while in Mr. Rich's company, visitors come to understand that this is his way of sharing a laugh. 
 "They offer a million for this piece or that piece," he added, eventually. "One guy said, 'I'll give you $4 million for the road frontage,' " about five acres along Route 67. "I go, 'Nope, not for sale.' They say, 'But . . . ' and I say 'Nope!' and that's it.
"I'm not really polite," said Mr. Rich, 44, rubbing his bearded chin with the back of a mallet-size fist. "But I don't swear at them."
Pardon his visceral reaction. But dairy farms like Mr. Rich's, which he runs with his brother, Don, are fading into Connecticut's past faster than ever. Since 1990, 126 dairy farms have disappeared from the state's landscape -- there are none left in Fairfield County, according to state records. About 230 remain scattered throughout the rest of the state.
In an age of enduring economic prosperity and high-tech solutions to just about everything, making milk has only grown more difficult, and the difference between turning a profit and turning the farm into a subdivision, any dairy farmer will tell you, remains perilously small.
"We've lost 10 farms this year," said Gabe Moquin, an assistant director in the State Department of Agriculture. "We'll probably lose a dozen or so by the end of the year."
To keep Rich Farm, with its 1950's wood barn and twin grain silos, from becoming an eponym for yet another condominium complex, the Rich brothers did what a number of their colleagues around the state have done in recent years. They built a sturdy shack opposite the cow barn, put up a sign along Route 67, cleared room for a parking lot and started making ice cream, in 25 flavors.
"Don't want to give up," said Mr. Rich, in a relatively long-winded explanation, on one recent Sunday evening as he milked Blue Collar Cow, one of about 70 eccentrically named Holsteins lined up in stalls like tractor trailers parked for unloading. The more he is asked about not giving up, the more bitterly he recalls how other farmers in southwestern Connecticut have been persuaded to sell land to developers.
"They work clearing land, building stone fences, ruin their bodies in the process," Mr. Rich said. Then hard times hit, the developers come in and buy the farmer's land and sell it for a huge profit, he said, pouring several gallons of Blue Collar's milk into a vat, to be pumped it into a stainless steel cooler for pasteurizing.
"Overnight they make twice what the guy did in 60 years," he said. "That's what really drives me crazy. Why do those guys have to make so much money for doing so little?"
Since Rich Farm's Ice Cream Shop opened in 1994, it has turned into a financial success. Mr. Rich declines -- cordially, sort of -- to discuss money. But on just about every rain-free Sunday between March and November, the creamery turns the farm into a well-populated Norman Rockwell portrait. On a recent well-chilled Sunday evening, 45 grown-ups stood, goose-pimpled, in a 20-minute line for ice cream, overlooking the Naugatuck River valley.
Standing in line, one need not tune out noise from bleeping pagers and cell phones because there isn't any, only the caw of crows, polite adult conversation and the warble of children's voices. And an occasional moo from the barn.
"It's like old-time America, just where you grew up," said Guido Dadamo, 72, of Phoenix, sitting down in a plastic lawn chair near the barn to feast on two big scoops of chocolate.
Many loyal customers, like Lucretia Sveda from nearby Middlebury, come back to the farm every summer, and familiar faces routinely find one another during the wait in line. "This is the best place for ice cream," said Ms. Sveda, 47. "It's just the whole atmosphere, with the corn and the cows and the smell," she said, glancing at the barn, from which the dueling aromas of sweet cream and manure wafted.
To many people in this rolling, picturesque patch of Connecticut, the Rich Farm has become a tourist destination. "Whenever we have guests come in from out of town, we say, 'We've got to go to the farm,' " said Beverly Cervino of Southbury.
There is no shortage of premium-grade ice cream in this state. The University of Connecticut's Dairy Bar, on its campus in Storrs, is perhaps the best known. But the private sector is growing; in the last decade, a half-dozen dairy farms around Connecticut, including Rich Farm, have started creameries as a way of staving off developers.
Dave Rich said he hopes to pass the farm onto his three children, the same way his grandfather Tom Ajello, an Italian immigrant, passed the land to Mr. Rich's father, who worked it until Mr. Rich and his brother were old enough to take over.
To keep the crowds coming, the Riches even engage some basic marketing formulas, churning out new flavors like Cookie Monster and, in a nod to autumn, pumpkin. Dave Rich, of course, prefers eating "chocolate, basic chocolate," which he does three times a day.
Whatever it takes to keep the developers away.
"They probably think we're just a couple of dumb hillbillies," Mr. Rich said, his hands firmly on the teats of a cow named Whitey, whose swishing tail repeatedly whopped Mr. Rich in the face. "But they just put their head down and leave."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dave Rich has resisted selling the family dairy farm in Oxford, Conn., to developers. Since 1990, 126 dairy farms in the state have disappeared.; To survive, the Rich Farm makes ice cream to sell to tourists. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); 

PERSON: DAVE RICH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



406 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Prisons Offer No Escape From Paying Child Support

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C., Sept. 16

 BODY:
As federal and state officials intensify efforts to collect unpaid child support, prisoners and recently released offenders are attracting more attention than ever from enforcement agencies.
In some areas, this can take the form of unforgiving policies that may whisk a man back to prison because he could not pay debts that built up while he was behind bars. Elsewhere, authorities are more flexible, helping fathers fresh out of prison find jobs and negotiating a reduction in support payments. 
 The disparity in policies was discussed here this week at the National Conference of Fathers Behind Bars and in the Streets, a three-day session that ended Friday.
The differences extend beyond state-by-state variations. Several speakers from Colorado, for example, noted that each of that state's counties sets its own child-support policies.
"We have 63 little nations," said Jessica Pearson, a researcher. "It creates a frustrating situation."
Ms. Pearson runs an experimental program in Denver that helps recently released fathers get jobs and meet their child-support obligations. Most of the participants emerge from prison owing $13,000 to $18,000 and obtain jobs in the $10-an-hour range, making debt repayment almost impossible.
Ms. Pearson said some Colorado judges considered prison time to be "voluntary unemployment," and thus not a justification for lowering support payments.
Robert Conklin, a Colorado child-support enforcement official, said that recently released fathers -- and fathers still behind bars -- should pay something toward their obligations. But Mr. Conklin said the orders should be realistic, based on the ability to pay.
Colorado recently started garnishing some of the modest wages that inmates earn, generally $5 to $24 a month. Mr. Conklin tries to persuade inmates that such payments are in their interest if they want to maintain contact with their children.
"Even if you're paying just five bucks a month, at least you can look your kid in the eye and say, 'I did what I could,' " Mr. Conklin said. "The impact that has on the child is significant. It gives him a sense of worth that his dad helped when it was painful to do so."
Jacquelyn Boggess, who works with low-income fathers in Madison, Wis., said some men are arrested for nonpayment of support almost immediately upon release from prison. Support orders should become more flexible, she said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); MADISON, WI, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); MADISON, WI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (95%); PRISONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COUNTIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); 

PERSON: ROBERT CONKLIN (92%); JESSICA PEARSON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



407 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Tells N.A.A.C.P. She ' Made Mistakes'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SOMERSET, N.J., Sept. 16

 BODY:
Admitting "I've made mistakes," Gov. Christine Todd Whitman addressed the state N.A.A.C.P. convention today for the first time since July, when a photograph surfaced of her frisking a black man during a police patrol in Camden.
The governor acknowledged lingering resentment over the photo among blacks, but said black clergy members and community leaders knew that she had worked hard to improve things for minorities. 
 Mrs. Whitman made only an oblique reference to the incident in her speech, which was devoted mainly to a defense of affirmative action and a pledge to ensure that no one gets left behind in the state's high-tech economy.
But in an interview afterward, Mrs. Whitman said she realized that black anger over the picture had not completely disappeared. "I'm not at all surprised there's still some resentment," she said. "That was a bad photo; there's no question."
In the photograph, taken in 1996, Mrs. Whitman stands behind a black man whose arms are spread and palms are pressed against a wall. The governor wears jeans, a sweat shirt, a baseball cap and black gloves and appears to be smiling.
The photo was taken during a police sweep of a Camden neighborhood. The governor said she participated in the pat-down search because she wanted to experience police work fully. The man in the photo was not charged with a crime.
Mrs. Whitman's comments today seemed to indicate a softening of her position on the photograph. Immediately after it became public, she adopted a defiant stance and refused calls for her to apologize, suggesting that critics were trying to "bully" her out of making reforms in Camden, New Jersey's poorest city, including a takeover of its government.
Some N.A.A.C.P. officials said Mrs. Whitman's appearance before the group should help ease tensions over the picture. "I can't see her doing something deliberately negative toward anybody," said Mary Lee Gilmore, the New Jersey chapter's secretary. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (74%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (56%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



408 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush, in a Broad Attack on Gore, Paints Him as the Candidate of Big Government

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Sept. 16

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush sharply attacked Vice President Al Gore's positions on tax cuts, Social Security, Medicare and education today, casting them as triumphs of federal control over individual choice.
"My opponent's ideas are shaped by a quarter century in Washington -- they were tired even when his career began," Mr. Bush said in a speech to a convention of the California Republican Party that he delivered by satellite from his central Texas ranch this afternoon. "Every big idea means bigger government. It's an old temptation: you start off trying to help people, and you end up telling them what to do." 
 The speech was by far Mr. Bush's most comprehensive, specific and strongly worded criticism of his Democratic opponent's policies, signaling his campaign's heightened desire to challenge Mr. Gore on issues and fashioning Mr. Bush as the real populist in the presidential race.
"The vice president talks about 'the people versus the powerful,' " Mr. Bush said. "But, in all his plans, who ends up with the power? Who always ends up making the choices? Not the taxpayers, but the tax collectors. Not the senior citizens, but the H.M.O. overseers. Not the parents, or even the teachers, but some distant central office."
"He says he wants to help 'the people,' " he said. "If only he would trust them."
The remarks provoked a swift and extraordinarily detailed response from Mr. Gore's aides, who issued a nearly 3,500-word written rebuttal and put many of Mr. Bush's proposals under their own microscope. They charged Mr. Bush with false assumptions and faulty arithmetic and left no doubt about the energy with which they would participate in an intensifying policy debate.
For more than a week, Mr. Bush's aides had said that he would begin to paint bolder contrasts between his and Mr. Gore's positions on some of the issues most important to voters.
And in bits and pieces, Mr. Bush did that over the last six days, as he campaigned in Florida, Missouri, Washington, California and New Mexico, maintaining a schedule that reflected the degree to which he has picked up his pace.
But not until today did he venture such a sweeping and pointed dissection of Mr. Gore's agenda. His speech was full of new and newly aggressive language, coupled with the assertion that if the campaign centers on issues, Mr. Gore will be forced "to play on our turf."
That claim amounted to an inversion of the conventional wisdom and of the findings in many polls, which show that more voters side with Mr. Gore and Democrats on many of these issues. But Mr. Bush's remarks today showed that he would try to erase that advantage by characterizing Mr. Gore as an old-style Democrat bent on big spending and intrusive government regulation.
He portrayed himself, in turn, as the candidate of new ideas, and he sought to turn his own considerably more limited and shorter career in government into an advantage by tagging Mr. Gore as the caretaker of the status quo.
He was careful to note that he does see a role for the federal government, albeit a limited one.
"I do not believe government is the enemy," Mr. Bush said. "But I do not believe government is always the answer. At its best, it can help people find the tools they need to build for themselves. At its best, it gives options, not orders. At its best, government can help us live our lives, but it must never run our lives."
The Bush campaign's greater resolve to engage Mr. Gore on issues underscored the progress that Mr. Gore has made in making himself more likable to voters. Mr. Bush's aides came to believe that it was more important than ever to tangle with Mr. Gore not simply over questions of character but also over questions of policy.
In an appearance today on the CNN news program "Evans, Novak, Hunt & Shields," Mr. Bush made clear that he was not entirely abandoning the former, and made reference to Mr. Gore's fund-raising efforts in the 1996 presidential race.
"The vice president's a good family man, no question about it," Mr. Bush said. "But he has been part of an administration that violated financing laws. He did go to the Buddhist temple. He made phone calls from the White House and then uttered the famous phrase, 'no controlling legal authority.' "
But the critique of Mr. Gore in today's speech steered clear of ethics and personality, which Republicans once saw as Mr. Gore's principal vulnerabilities, and straight into the issues. It illustrated Mr. Bush's eagerness to dictate the terms of the race after several weeks in which he did not do so.
Mr. Bush said that Mr. Gore's proposal for "targeted" tax cuts, less than half the size of his own $1.3 trillion plan over 10 years, was so rife with conditions that it rewarded only people who lived as the federal government saw fit.
"You may get help with child care, but only if your child is in paid or government-approved child care," Mr. Bush said. "Grandparents and family and friends are not included."
"You may get a break on transportation," he said, "but only if you drive around in a hybrid electric and gasoline-engine vehicle.
"My opponent's theory is that only the 'right' people should get tax relief," he added. "That's what Vice President Gore calls them, the 'right' people. But there are no right people or wrong people in America."
He said that Mr. Gore's proposal to provide prescription drugs for elderly Americans through Medicare would not allow any flexibility.
"The vice president says he believes in health care choices, and he has made yours for you," he said. "If you want prescription drugs, that's a private matter, between you and your Washington bureaucrat."
He said that Mr. Gore would not do enough to change Social Security and that the vice president's plan did not address the long-term financial solvency of the program. "He relies on accounting gimmicks and massive I.O.U.'s that our children will have to pay," Mr. Bush said.
"He calls his plan 'Social Security Plus,' " Mr. Bush said. "And that's a good name. The Gore plan is Social Security, plus massive government debt. Social Security, plus a staggering tax increase on the next generation."
The Gore campaign marshaled news articles and its own numbers to dispute many of Mr. Bush's charges, and Chris Lehane, a spokesman for the Gore campaign, said in an interview, "The speech is as fatuous as his policies are flawed as his allegations are flagrantly wrong."
The Bush campaign, for example, maintains that at least 50 million American taxpayers would not have their taxes lowered under Mr. Gore's plan, while the Gore campaign puts that figure at around 30 million. The Gore campaign's written answer to the Bush speech cited analyses that supported Mr. Gore's contention that middle-class Americans would get more economic help from him.
Mr. Lehane said that Mr. Bush's proposed tax cut -- which, in raw dollars, gives the most money back to the wealthiest Americans -- was proof that Mr. Bush would not have the resources, and did not have the desire, to help low-income and middle-class Americans.
"George W. Bush has no credibility on the issues, since he spends the entire budget surplus on a massive tax cut for the few at the expense of the many," Mr. Lehane said.
Aides said Mr. Bush's speech was a preview of the week to come. As he visits nine states over six days, Mr. Bush will pursue a cradle-to-grave comparison of what he believes to be the disparate effects of his policies and Mr. Gore's. At the beginning of the week, he will talk about children; at the end, about elderly people.
But his strategy carries risks, and not only because of the suggestion in polls that more voters believe that Mr. Gore shares their positions on issues. Mr. Bush is not always as forceful in detailed policy discussions as he is in broadly thematic appeals, and while today's speech allowed him to read from a text, many of the kinds of town hall-style campaign events that his campaign is staging are less controlled.
At such events this week, Mr. Bush's appraisals of Mr. Gore's proposals were nowhere near as vigorous as they were today.
Mr. Bush has spent much of the 15 months since he began his campaign laying out his own proposals. What was new about today's speech was how long and how critically it dwelled on the policies that Mr. Gore is advocating. He lashed into Mr. Gore's calls for new government spending, saying that Mr. Gore would create federal budget deficits.
"My opponent has a plan for the non-Social Security surplus: he's going to spend it all on new programs," Mr. Bush said.
And Mr. Bush used this charge to label Mr. Gore as someone who had been in Washington too long already. "I can sum up my opponent's economic plan in one simple sentence: keep sending too much of your money to Washington, because Al Gore thinks he knows how to spend it better than you do," Mr. Bush said.
He invoked President Reagan to explain why he felt that Mr. Gore was not a champion of the people. That detail perhaps demonstrated Mr. Bush's need and attempt to win "Reagan Democrats" as he and Mr. Gore compete for voters without binding allegiances to either party.
"As Ronald Reagan said," Mr. Bush recalled, " 'You can't be for big government, big bureaucracy, and still be for the little guy.' "
 
In His Own
GEORGE W. BUSH
Following are excerpts from remarks delivered yesterday by Governor Bush to a meeting of the California Republican Party in Palm Springs, Calif. He addressed the group from his ranch near Crawford, Tex., by satellite:
"On taxes, here's my plan: If you pay income taxes, you get a tax cut . . . My opponent has a plan, too. He calls it targeted tax relief. The first problem is that at least 50 million American taxpayers -- over half the total -- are nowhere near the target. They get nothing. All the rest may get a tax cut from Al Gore, but only if they do things his way.
You may get help with child care, but only if your child is in paid or government-approved child care -- grandparents and family and friends are not included. You may get a break on the marriage penalty, but not if you itemize your income tax forms. You may get a break on transportation, but only if you drive around in a hybrid electric and gasoline-engine vehicle.
You may get death tax relief, but first the I.R.S. has eight or nine questions, starting with this one: Did you materially participate in the operations of the small business 5 out of 8 years before your death, and do your heirs pledge to materially participate for another 10 years?
My opponent's theory is that only the 'right' people should get tax relief. That's what Vice President Gore calls them, the 'right' people. But there are no right people or wrong people in America. Tax relief should be aimed at one big target, so you can't miss. Everyone in America who pays income taxes should get tax relief . . .
My opponent has a plan for the non-Social Security surplus: he's going to spend it all on new programs. He is going to spend it all, and then some. The Senate Budget Committee did the math. They added up all the vice president's daily promises. Every way you look at it, under any scenario, the vice president uses every penny of the non-Social Security surplus and runs the government back into the red, by as much as $900 billion. So here is the difference between our plans: my plan has spending discipline. His just has spending. . . .
I do not believe government is the enemy, but I do not believe government is always the answer. At its best, it can help people find the tools they need to build for themselves. At its best, it gives options, not orders. At its best, government can help us live our lives, but it must never run our lives. . . .
The vice president talks about 'the people versus the powerful.' But, in all his plans, who ends up with the power? Who always ends up making the choices? Not the taxpayers, but the tax collectors. Not the senior citizens, but the H.M.O. overseers. Not the parents, or even the teachers, but some distant central office. He says he wants to help 'the people.' If only he would trust them."
 
A full transcript is available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



409 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: SPENDING PLANS;
Candidates' Budget Numbers Rely on Optimistic Outlook

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush have made clear the differences in how they would use the federal budget surplus, the much-anticipated but as yet unrealized bounty of prosperity.
But both candidates face the same question: Can the government really afford what they are proposing? 
 The answer, at best, is maybe.
A close reading of the proposals put forward by Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore, and interviews with economists and analysts inside and outside the campaigns, suggest the budget plans are more substantive than those developed by the two parties in previous elections, but that each hinges on optimistic assumptions.
If the surplus materializes as projected, if the candidates have not underestimated the cost of their proposals, if Congress does not pass any expensive initiatives of its own, if nothing unexpected happens in the next decade to put new demands on the nation's finances, then their numbers, at least as they present them, would basically add up.
The odds of everything falling into place as anticipated for the next decade, the period covered by their proposals, are slim. Among budget analysts, the entire notion of putting specific dollar figures on plans extending 10 years into the unknown is considered absurd.
Still, the candidates' plans provide a look at priorities and a test of their ability to meet what has emerged as a threshold standard for good governance: fiscal responsibility.
If his accounting is taken at face value, Mr. Gore has an advantage in that he has built more of a buffer into his budget. Mr. Bush, even by his own reckoning, has less wiggle room should the surplus fall short of expectations or the need for new spending be greater than he assumes.
Mr. Bush has made a tax cut the centerpiece of his budget. Mr. Gore stresses new spending and reducing the national debt. Each campaign seeks every day to punch holes in the other's budget arithmetic.
Mr. Bush's campaign contends that Mr. Gore has understated, by hundreds of billions of dollars, the cost of his plan to promote retirement savings. The Gore camp points out that Mr. Bush has not included in his budget any money to deploy a national missile defense, a cornerstone of Mr. Bush's military policy.
The issue, though, is not just how the candidates would apportion the surplus. The starting point has to be, how much is there to apportion?
The experience of the last few years suggests that the surplus projections could grow even larger if the economy continues to expand at anything close to its recent pace.
Yet some economists say that the projections, even if they prove correct, overstate how much money will be available for tax and spending initiatives.
They say that beyond the proposals made by the presidential candidates is an array of other initiatives, with powerful political momentum behind them, that will almost certainly eat up a substantial portion of the surplus over the next decade.
Still other economists, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman, question whether the surplus, however big it proves to be, should go to any combination of tax cuts or spending increases before the $3.5 trillion national debt is paid off and the long-term solvency of the Social Security and Medicare systems is assured.
The Congressional Budget Office projects that the total federal budget surplus from 2001 through 2010 will be $4.56 trillion.
Of that, $2.39 trillion would come from excess payroll tax revenue earmarked for Social Security. The two parties have agreed not to use the Social Security surplus for tax cuts or spending programs. Mr. Gore would use it to pay down the national debt, except for $97 billion he would use to increase benefits for elderly women. Mr. Bush would split it between debt reduction and helping to pay for his proposal to create private investment accounts within Social Security.
That leaves $2.17 trillion in projected non-Social Security surpluses available over the next decade for tax cuts and new spending.
Mr. Bush's plan starts with a tax cut of just over $1.3 trillion. He values his spending initiatives at $475 billion, including $158 billion for the addition of prescription drug coverage to Medicare, $132 billion to make health insurance more affordable and $45 billion in additional money for the military.
Mr. Bush's tax and spending package comes to $1.79 trillion. After adding the interest costs that stem from using the surplus for any purpose other than debt reduction -- $312 billion in this case -- the total Bush budget comes to about $2.1 trillion, or just $70 billion less than the anticipated surplus.
Mr. Bush seeks to give himself a little more breathing room by pledging to produce savings of a little less than $200 billion over 10 years from what he terms government reform. He can therefore claim that he still has $265 billion in reserve.
"The combination of Social Security reform, tax rate reductions and debt reduction that are in George W. Bush's plan is a responsible framework for helping us prepare for the future," said John F. Cogan, an economist who advises the Bush campaign on fiscal policy. "The $260 billion to $300 billion cushion should suffice to meet contingencies that might arise."
Mr. Gore starts by asserting that the $2.17 trillion surplus is actually a $1.81 trillion surplus.
Just as the two parties have agreed to wall off the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security, Mr. Gore says they should also agree to neither spend nor use for tax cuts the portion of the surplus from excess Medicare payroll tax revenues -- $360 billion over the next decade. He says he would use that money only to reduce the national debt.
His proposal has considerable bipartisan support. When a similar measure came to a vote in the House in June, it passed by 420 to 2, with not a single Republican voting against it.
Of the remaining $1.81 trillion surplus, Mr. Gore would use $1.51 trillion, according to his campaign's estimates, for his tax and spending initiatives and their interest costs.
He would provide tax cuts of $480 billion. He would allocate $340 billion to Medicare, including the addition of prescription drug coverage and money to keep the insurance program solvent. He would increase spending on national security, including the military, by $100 billion, and would provide an additional $120 billion each to health care and the environment. The interest costs for his plans would be $253 billion. Mr. Gore would then set aside the remaining $300 billion as a reserve fund.
To help his numbers add up, Mr. Gore assumes that his tax cut can be partly paid for with $96 billion he says could be raised by closing tax loopholes. He assumes that he can eliminate $30 billion in wasteful spending from the Pentagon and other agencies. And he proposes to raise $66 billion by raising taxes on cigarettes.
"Al Gore has put forward a strong, pro-growth framework which includes bold steps for education, research and savings and working-family tax cuts," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic policy director, who is advising the Gore campaign.
Mr. Gore's approach "not only continues the path toward making America debt-free, but even includes a $300 billion surplus reserve to ensure we get there even if unexpected emergencies or contingencies occur," Mr. Sperling said.
Both plans have vulnerabilities.
Mr. Bush's budget would overrun the projected surplus if Congress were to bar the use of the Medicare surplus for tax cuts or spending, as Mr. Gore has proposed.
If Mr. Bush cannot find the promised $200 billion in savings from what he calls government reform, he would have trouble paying for potentially expensive initiatives like deploying a national missile defense. And his budget makes no provision for the possibility that his plan to create investment accounts within Social Security might require money from general tax revenues.
Mr. Gore could have trouble if his initiatives prove to be more expensive than he has estimated. Republican budget analysts in Congress say Mr. Gore has badly understated the costs not only of his retirement savings plan but also of other proposals, like his call for universal preschool education.
Mr. Gore could also have trouble raising some of the nonsurplus money he is counting on. The Clinton administration's efforts to increase taxes on cigarettes have gone nowhere, and its efforts to crack down on tax loopholes have found little support in Congress.
But because Mr. Gore has not committed as much to tax and spending initiatives as Mr. Bush, he possibly has more flexibility should his budget plans go awry. At least by his own accounting, he can claim to have a buffer of at least $660 billion: the $360 billion Medicare surplus, which Mr. Gore would put to reducing the national debt, plus his $300 billion reserve fund.
That is nearly $400 billion more than Mr. Bush's $265 billion buffer.
Even as the two candidates accuse each other of busting the budget, economists are debating how big the surplus will prove to be.
The Congressional Budget Office's projections are built around a series of assumptions: that government spending will rise by the rate of inflation over the next 10 years, that economic growth will average about 2.7 percent a year and that no other policies will be enacted or changed.
Changing any of those assumptions leads to substantial changes in the surplus numbers.
An analysis by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group, concluded that only about $700 billion of the surplus would be left for initiatives.
The center said there was strong bipartisan support for walling off the $360 billion Medicare surplus. Extending a series of politically popular tax breaks, as Congress has done regularly in the past, and limiting the expansion of the alternative minimum tax, as both parties have said they want to do, would eat up another $230 billion.
If spending were to rise not at the rate of inflation, but at a pace that history suggests is more realistic -- allowing spending to remain level in per-person terms after adjusting for inflation -- another $400 billion of the surplus would disappear, the center said.
Put aside another $500 billion to deal with the long-term financial problems of Social Security and Medicare, the report said, and the available surplus comes to about a third of its original $2.17 trillion.
It is also possible that the surplus estimate is too low, given the strong economy. The budget office and the White House have regularly had to revise their surplus figures upward for the last several years.
Economists at Lehman Brothers, the investment firm, have projected that if real economic growth is around 4 percent a year rather than the 2.7 percent assumed by the budget office, the non-Social Security surplus will be $348 billion higher over 10 years than the budget office's figure. Most economists think the economy is capable of growing about 4 percent a year in the long run.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "Surplus Maybe, Proposals Yes"
Competing, and mutually criticized, proposals to use a surplus that may or may not materialize as projected.
 
VIEWS OF THE SURPLUS
 
GEORGE W. BUSH
Would use the projected Social Security surplus of $2.39 trillion over the next decade to reduce the national debt and to help pay for the establishment of private investment accounts within the Social Security system. Assumes that all of the non-Social Security surplus, projected to be $2.17 trillion, would be available for his tax cuts and spending proposals.
 
AL GORE
Would use all of the Social Security surplus for debt reduction, except for $97 billion that would go to increasing Social Security benefits for elderly women. Assumes that $360 billion of the $2.17 trillion non-Social Security surplus -- the portion generated by Medicare surpluses -- would not be available for spending or tax cuts.
 
BUDGET PRIORITIES
 
GEORGE W. BUSH
Uses the bulk of the non-Social Security surplus for a $1.3 trillion tax cut that would reduce all income tax rates, eliminate the federal estate tax, double the child credit and give a break to many married couples. Would spend $158 billion over 10 years to add prescription drug coverage to Medicare and $132 billion to increase access to health insurance. Would increase military spending by $45 billion over a decade.
 
AL GORE
Would use much of the non-Social Security surplus on new spending. Proposals include $340 billion over 10 years for Medicare, including the addition of a prescription drug benefit; $115 billion for education; $120 billion to expand access to health care; $120 billion for the environment and energy; and $100 billion for national security. Would also cut taxes by $480 billion over 10 years.
 
VULNERABILITIES
 
GEORGE W. BUSH
Leaves less buffer than Gore for any shortfall in the surplus projections or for any unbudgeted spending needs. Does not include the potential costs of national missile defense, and does not consider the possibility that general revenues might be needed for Social Security overhaul. Would leave budget in deficit if the Medicare surplus were not available for tax cuts and spending.
 
AL GORE
May have underestimated the cost of some proposals, including the establishment of retirement savings accounts. Many people would not receive any tax cut. Relies in part on tax increases and loophole closings
that have little political support.
(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



410 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Big Ideas for Apollo Theater Are Held Up by Internal Squabbles

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
It has been a year since United States Representative Charles B. Rangel agreed -- after a rancorous legal battle -- to step down as chairman of the nonprofit organization that runs the state-owned Apollo Theater and turn over control of the board to Time Warner.
Yet despite the new leadership, the red cloth seats inside the theater remain torn, the dirty brown carpeting is pockmarked with cigarette burns and there is peeling paint on the balustrade and the ceiling. The marquee that is a favorite backdrop for tourists' snapshots is still an eyesore, perhaps even more so now that several nearby storefronts on 125th Street have been spruced up in response to the opening of the new Harlem U.S.A. shopping complex a block away. 
 And just as before, the Apollo is dark most nights.
Efforts to refurbish the theater, a storied Harlem landmark that helped propel the careers of Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan, have been slowed by internal squabbling, according to people with direct knowledge of the disputes. But Time Warner executives say they intend to completely refurbish the Apollo next year. The Apollo Theater Foundation, which operates the theater, has raised about $5 million in public and private funds for the renovation, including a $2 million federal grant.
But Time Warner also has much more ambitious plans for the site. With fewer than 1,500 seats, the Apollo can no longer attract top pop music acts. So instead, the company wants to make it part of a major cultural center on 125th Street. The center would stretch from the vacant lot directly west of the Apollo to the Victoria, an abandoned movie theater several doors to the east. The Victoria is also owned by the state.
The idea, said Terry C. Lane, the president of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, is to create a "Lincoln Center North." The empowerment zone, a federal, state and city program, is expected to give the Apollo $250,000 to help develop a strategic plan, Mr. Lane said.
Time Warner officials would not disclose any details of their plans, including estimates of the cost. Charles A. Gargano, the president of the Empire State Development Corporation, the state agency that owns the Apollo, said he had yet to meet with the president of Time Warner, Richard D. Parsons, to review the proposal. Mr. Parsons is also chairman of the empowerment zone.
Mr. Gargano said he thought the idea was timely, given the economic health of the city and the state. "We like to see these type of projects," he said. "Look at Lincoln Center, what it's done for Manhattan."
Mr. Rangel said there was no question that the money for such a center could be raised. But he said it should not be referred to as Lincoln Center North.
"I don't like that, maybe because Harlem was there before Lincoln Center," he said. "Just because people have not paid as much attention to Harlem, I don't think we should be a satellite."
C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, said she thought the expansion would get widespread support as long as Time Warner seemed to be forging a partnership with the Harlem community rather than forcing its way in. "There has to be clarity," she said. "It has to be done as a partnership -- as a move forward, an enhancement, an opportunity for expansion, and not as a takeover."
Company officials acknowledged, however, that the expansion plan would require an enormous fund-raising effort and would have to overcome a number of hurdles.
The current political battle concerns the role of Grace Blake, the executive director of the Apollo Theater Foundation since 1995. Time Warner executives say they intend to replace her, and Mr. Rangel, who has been odds with some Time Warner appointees to the board, agrees, saying that the foundation should be run by someone with a background in business, architecture and real estate. Ms. Blake previously worked in movie production.
Ms. Blake, who is trying to hold on to her job, has the support of Barbara Norris, a central figure in Time Warner's expansion plans, according to Harlem community leaders and others familiar with the politics of the Apollo. Ms. Norris is the president of the local development arm of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a nonprofit group that owns the vacant lot next to the Apollo.
Ms. Blake declined to be interviewed, and Ms. Norris did not return several telephone calls.
Designed by George Keister, a major early 20th-century theater architect, and completed in 1914, the Apollo was originally a burlesque house for white patrons and was known as Hurtig & Seamon's New Theater.
In the 1930's, leading black entertainers, who were not welcome in most theaters even into the 1950's, began appearing at the Apollo in a variety show format. For the next four decades, every major black performer, from Bessie Smith to Louis Armstrong to Aretha Franklin, played the Apollo.
By the mid-1970's, audiences had dwindled, black performers could earn more elsewhere, and 125th Street had gone into decline. The theater closed in 1976. In the 1980's, Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan borough president who owns a chain of radio stations, bought the theater and reopened it, but it was seldom able to attract major stars. Unable to make a go of the theater, Mr. Sutton turned it over to the nonprofit foundation in 1992.
Six years later, Dennis C. Vacco, then the state attorney general, sued the foundation, Mr. Rangel and five other board members. The suit accused them of failing to collect $4.4 million owed to the theater by the Inner City Theater Group, a company controlled by Mr. Sutton, a close ally of Mr. Rangel. The company produces a weekly television variety program, "It's Showtime at the Apollo."
Mr. Rangel and Mr. Sutton, who later became a defendant in the lawsuit, denied wrongdoing, and Eliot L. Spitzer, who succeeded Mr. Vacco as attorney general, acknowledged that it would be difficult to prove that as much as $4.4 million was owed the theater. He said that $1 million was a fairer figure, and a settlement, reached last October, required the foundation to come up with that sum from Mr. Sutton, some of his business associates and Time Warner.
Also as part of that settlement, Mr. Rangel was forced to step aside as chairman. He was succeeded by the actor Ossie Davis. Ten new board members were appointed, including Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln Center and a member of Time Warner's board.
While the legal battle wore on, the Landmarks Conservancy, a private nonprofit organization, prepared a report for the Apollo Theater documenting the repair work that was needed. Roger Lang, a preservation architect for the Landmarks Conservancy, said the work was to include installing a new roof, cleaning and repointing the terracotta facade, replacing the seats and completely refurbishing the interior. Additional fund-raising would be needed to improve the sound system and the stage lighting, Mr. Lang said. A New York architectural firm, Caples Jefferson, has been chosen by the theater's board for the renovation, Mr. Lang said.
For Councilman Bill Perkins, who represents Harlem, the renovations cannot come too soon. "At least what we could do is dress up the facade," he said. "It's not like an old leather bag that looks better with age."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Time Warner says it wants to make the Apollo Theater part of a cultural center that includes the Victoria, an abandoned movie theater, at right. The Apollo is still dark most nights, despite new leadership. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 48); (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (74%); RETAILERS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (89%); RICHARD D PARSONS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



411 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Ailing Yanks Can Rest Easy As Hernandez Stops Indians

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

 BODY:
Orlando Hernandez strolled from his locker to the trainer's room with so much ice wrapped around his arm from his right shoulder to his elbow that it looked as if he were lugging watermelons underneath the Ace bandages. Hernandez was preparing for his start against the Cleveland Indians by using enough ice for a small barbecue.
Bernie Williams had a similar look yesterday as he wore a wrap of ice that resembled a flak jacket. Paul O'Neill sat glumly as he waited to get a cortisone shot in his right hip. Derek Jeter fell asleep inside the players' lounge, even as a Rocky movie blared in front of him. 
 It was that kind of lazy day for the Yankees. Another day to get ready for the postseason because, unlike the Indians, the Yankees' sizable cushion in the American League East gives them the luxury of resting players. So Williams and O'Neill tried to heal, while Jeter was given the rare chance to nap.
But Hernandez pitched as some teammates rested and he was the primary reason the Yankees stomped the Indians, 6-3, on a crisp, sunny day at Yankee Stadium. Hernandez retired the first 14 batters of the game and finished with a dominating four-hitter to delight a sellout crowd of 55,097.
"We need him to be right there," catcher Jorge Posada said. "We did everything we could to get guys out. He was very good to catch. It was a lot of fun. He threw strikes and he was intense."
Glenallen Hill walloped a homer in the second inning, his 14th in 109 at-bats as a Yankee; Posada ripped his 26th homer, in the fifth; and Luis Sojo filled in for Jeter by doing an imitation of the shortstop with a single, a triple and three runs batted in.
While Hernandez (12-11) showed he was rolling into postseason form by winning for the fourth time in his last five decisions, the Indians fell into a virtual tie for the A.L. wild card with Oakland, which beat Tampa Bay, 5-2, yesterday.
Manager Joe Torre says Hernandez is pitching as well as he has since joining the Yankees in 1998 because he is challenging left-handed batters with fastballs and pitching economically, compliments that made the mysterious El Duque incredulous.
"That's Joe Torre," said Hernandez, whose first words were how he refused to discuss what types of pitches he had thrown.
When Hernandez was asked if he agreed with Torre, he snapped, "I don't agree with anything."
But Sojo talked about Hernandez's mind-set heading toward October when he revealed a conversation they had two weeks ago. Hernandez, who started the playoff openers in all three rounds last season and is 5-0 with a 1.02 earned run average in the postseason, conceded that he was peeking ahead.
"He's preparing for the playoffs," Sojo said. "He's not about stats. He told me he's all about the postseason."
Hernandez was the last Yankee to venture onto the field yesterday, and there was polite applause soon after he emerged. Hernandez skipped over the foul line and stared at the ground for a few seconds when he reached the mound, perhaps uttering a prayer.
But the Indians were the ones who needed divine intervention. Wearing long sleeves and sometimes blowing into his hand, Hernandez threw changeups early in counts, used a moving fastball and had great control while striking out six, walking none and needing 98 pitches for the complete game.
Hernandez struck out Manny Ramirez to open the second and pumped a fastball past David Segui to end the inning. After he made the dangerous hitters look feeble and the Yankees scored three runs in the bottom of the inning, on Hill's homer and Sojo's two-run single off Jason Bere, the focus was solely on the pitcher.
When the Yankees extended their lead to 5-0 in the fourth, the suspense was about Hernandez chasing perfection. He started the fifth by striking out Ramirez and Jim Thome, and there was anticipation that he might provide a special memory in the Bronx. But Segui lined an 0-1 pitch past second base for the first hit. Russell Branyan homered in the sixth, and Ramirez had a two-run homer in the ninth.
Roger Clemens is destined to start the opener of a division series, but Hernandez will be a major factor, too. Torre would probably prefer to use Andy Pettitte in Game 2 at Yankee Stadium, which would leave Hernandez for Game 3 on the road. Torre has spoken about the importance of the third game as a swing game, and Hernandez is a comforting pitcher to have in that position. Even he has pondered it.
"I think everyone that's playing in here is getting ready for the postseason," said Hernandez, and that notion was much more visible in his actions than in his words.
 
INSIDE PITCH
Right fielder PAUL O'NEILL looked like a Little Leaguer whose game had been rained out. After reinjuring his right hip while chasing a fly ball on Friday, O'Neill received his second shot of cortisone in three weeks yesterday. He will miss at least five more games. "It's driving me crazy," O'Neill said. "Walking into the park today, it was a beautiful day. You want to play a game." O'Neill was hampered with a fractured rib last October and a strained hamstring in the 1996 postseason, and he does not want to have a painful recurrence next month. "I think it'll be gone," he said. . . . BERNIE WILLIAMS (strained right rib cage) will probably start today. . . . CHUCK KNOBLAUCH returned after missing Friday's game with a tender right elbow. . . . CLAY BELLINGER ended an 0-for-26 slump with a single in the second inning. . . . JORGE POSADA, with 26 home runs, said he would rather tie, not break, YOGI BERRA's team record of 30 homers for a catcher. . . . The Yankees will pass three million fans at home for the second straight year today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Orlando Hernandez retired the first 14 batters he faced to win his 12th game.; (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg 1); Glenallen Hill made it 1-0 with his home run in the second inning yesterday, his 14th homer in 109 at-bats as a Yankee.; Luis Sojo had two hits, including a triple in the fourth that caused him to smile, and drove in three runs yesterday.(Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); OHIO, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); 

PERSON: DEREK JETER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



412 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE NUMBERS;
Gun Plan Shows Bush Isn't Solid in Colorado

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
One of the early signs that Colorado's eight electoral votes may no longer be a sure bet for Mr. Bush is a ballot initiative to require background checks of those buying guns at weekend shows.
Sponsors collected more than 85,000 signatures supporting the measure, which Republicans have historically opposed as more gun control, and it is expected to win overwhelmingly in November. 
 Democrat pollsters have also begun to see enough growing support for Democratic candidates for the State Senate, which Republicans have controlled for 40 years, that Democratic leaders say they believe they can overcome the current five-seat margin.
Then, said the Democrats' state party chairman, Tim Knaus, Mr. Gore's message on growth, environment, education and the economy began to catch on, and all of a sudden the presidential race in the state appears to be a dead heat.
The latest statewide poll, conducted this month for The Rocky Mountain News and KCNC, the CBS affiliate in Denver, found that Mr. Gore had closed the advantage Mr. Bush held in July, 45 percent to 31 percent, to a virtual tie of 43 to 40, with Mr. Gore inside the margin of error of 4 percentage points.
"That was huge news," Mr. Knaus said. "I was actually taken aback by how much momentum there was. I had been hoping we were within 10 points."
Gov. Bill Owens, who is serving as Mr. Bush's state campaign chairman, said he did not believe the poll and pointed to another, conducted by a firm that he and other Colorado Republicans use, that showed Mr. Bush with a lead "above 10 points."
Yet, he conceded: "The race has obviously narrowed, and Governor Bush has had some difficult weeks. But campaigns run in cycles and after a tough month that left us essentially even, we have a nice base to go back up."
Colorado has recently shown an independent streak in presidential elections, supporting Bill Clinton over President Bush in 1992 by 4 percentage points and Bob Dole over Mr. Clinton four years later by 2 points in a race in which third-party candidates won 10 percent of the vote.
But as one measure of the apparent shift back, the Democrats are investing more capital in Colorado, with Mr. Gore's running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, visiting today, to be followed by Mr. Gore's daughter Kristen next week. And talks are under way to bring in Mr. Gore.
Mr. Owens said he welcomed the visits. "I'm confident enough Coloradans will support Governor Bush," he said. "So every dollar they spend here takes it out of states they have a better chance of winning." MICHAEL JANOFSKY 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



413 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 32;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: As Hot Economy Pushes Up Overtime, Fatigue Becomes a Labor Issue

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
In his last two and a half days of life, Brent Churchill slept a total of five hours. The rest of the time he was working.
Mr. Churchill, a lineman on call one stormy weekend for Central Maine Power, worked two back-to-back shifts on Friday, went to bed at 10:30 p.m., was called back at 1 a.m. Saturday, caught a quick nap around dawn and went back to his job clambering up and down poles for almost 24 hours straight. Taking a break for breakfast on Sunday morning, he got yet another call. 
 At about noon, he climbed a 30-foot pole, hooked on his safety straps and reached for a 7,200-volt cable without first putting on his insulating gloves. There was a flash, and Mr. Churchill was hanging motionless by his straps. His father, arriving before the ladder-truck did and thinking his son might still be alive, stood at the foot of the pole for more than an hour begging for somebody to bring his boy down.
The death of a 30-year-old lineman from remote Industry, Me., might have gone unnoticed beyond family, friends and the woman he had planned to marry in June, but for a coincidence: Mr. Churchill happened to die at a time of heightened public concern about the expanding workweek -- a time, in fact, when the Maine legislature had been debating whether to cap the amount of mandatory overtime allowed in the state.
The bill was not exactly a clarion call for worker ease, placing the overtime limit at 96 hours within any three-week period. The governor had already vetoed two versions, and there had not been enough votes in the Senate to override him. But the outcry over Mr. Churchill's death lent new momentum to efforts to cap overtime. The lawmakers compromised on a cap of 80 hours in any two-week period, and in May, Maine became the first state in the nation to limit the number of hours an employee can be required to work.
But it is not the first to recognize the problem of physical exhaustion on the job in the tightest labor market in almost half a century. Although Maine faced an especially stark catalyst in Mr. Churchill's case, elsewhere around the nation, in courthouses and state legislatures, on picket lines and at negotiating tables, a backlash is building against the new economy's voracious appetite for Americans' time.
West Virginia and Pennsylvania recently debated but deferred action on bills that would allow workers to refuse overtime without being punished. Washington State lawmakers considered a Maine-style overtime cap earlier this year but it died in committee.
New Jersey legislators had greater success with a narrower bill, voting in June to ban mandatory overtime in hospitals; the bill now awaits Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's signature. California started counting overtime after an eight-hour day, rather than a 40-hour week, though lawmakers there are now being bombarded with calls to exempt ski lodges, hospitals, construction sites and many other workplaces.
The expanding workweek has become a flashpoint for some unions, though not all. Studies show that most employees who qualify for overtime premiums still want the extra hours. This lack of consensus on whether the workweek is too long or too short is one reason most state efforts to cap overtime have faltered.
The labor groups now taking a stand on the workweek tend to be those representing either workers with safety issues, like pilots and firefighters, or large numbers of women, who often feel the work-time pinch more acutely.
A strike by telephone workers against Verizon this summer was motivated in large part by overtime issues; women in the company's calling centers complained that they could not break free from work early enough to pick up their children or make dinner for their families. Firefighters in Connecticut recently challenged the constitutionality of mandatory overtime, arguing unsuccessfully that it violated the 13th Amendment ban on slavery. Nurses in several New York hospitals now sign protest statements when they start their shifts, creating a paper trail of their mandatory workloads.
Congress has also been grappling with the issue of the expanding workweek, though much of its effort is aimed not at workers but at helping employers who seek to reduce the associated labor costs. Several attachments to the pending minimum-wage legislation would disqualify technology workers, sales personnel and others from receiving overtime pay. Another provision would allow businesses to reduce overtime payments to virtually all qualifying employees.
Labor's fight for relief from onerous working hours dates back more than a century -- and its victories have been hard won. From 1886, when a potent eight-hour movement exploded in street violence in the Chicago Haymarket, it took 52 years for American society to agree on a 40-hour workweek with the passage of the Fair Labor Standards Act in 1938. But now, the strains that the booming economy is putting on workers, especially women, are reopening the debate.
"Overwork has been an issue for quite a while," said Peter Rachleff, a history professor at Macalester College in St. Paul. "But whether workers have felt it was an issue they could address or not has changed in the last year."
For all the rumblings of discontent, it is difficult to quantify Americans' workload. Federal statistics show that Americans are working record levels of overtime, but the data tracks only hourly manufacturing workers, who make up a shrinking share of today's work force.
The average American employee works just two more hours a week than in 1982, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But Randy E. Ilg, a senior economist at the bureau, said that figure probably understated the problem because women have been surging into the work force, and their generally shorter hours appear to have pulled down the average.
Only in the workweek statistics for households does the increase jump off the page, Mr. Ilg said.
"Twenty years ago, you had one person in the household working," he said. "Today you've got two. And who goes to the grocery store now? Who takes the check to the bank on the weekend? Who does the dishes after dinner?"
Other features of the new economy compound the sense of pressure. Samuel Bacharach, a professor at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations, found that workers who are most worried about downsizing are the ones most likely to load up on overtime. Central Maine Power had, in fact, laid off 37 linemen several years before Brent Churchill was killed, his mother said, and was timing the performances of those remaining.
"He took that job seriously," his mother, Donna Churchill, said.
The increased use of cellular phones, laptops and beepers also makes Americans feel like they are working more, Mr. Ilg said. So do today's longer commutes.
David Kavanagh, who recently held a job maintaining cooling systems for the Grand Union supermarket chain, knows this better than most.
Each evening, Grand Union would call Mr. Kavanagh at his home in Patchogue, N.Y., and tell him which supermarket he should appear at by 8 a.m. the next day. Most of his trips required him to drive the length of traffic-clogged Long Island and through New York City during morning rush hour. Some days, his commute took nine hours.
"There was no fast way he could get where he was going," said his wife, Tara Kavanagh, a lawyer. "He would sometimes leave at 4:30 in the morning and not be home until 10 o'clock at night."
Represented by his wife, Mr. Kavanagh sued Grand Union, demanding compensation for his travel time. In June, the court ruled, in a split decision, that while his situation was "inequitable," the law held no relief because a 1947 provision specifies that employers do not have to pay for "normal" commutes. (The dissenting judge said Mr. Kavanagh's commute was not normal.)
Mr. Kavanagh was eventually fired. "I smiled all the way home," he said. Today, he works as a machinist -- a 10-minute drive from home.
For all the travails of blue-collar workers like him, the people putting in the longest hours these days are white-collar workers on salary, Mr. Ilg said. Their ranks have been swelled by the information economy: 60 percent of the jobs created in the last 10 years are managerial and professional positions. Many of these people toil in a legal twilight zone, often performing duties that did not exist in 1938, when Congress drew clear-cut distinctions between workers and managers. The law is silent on how such workers should be compensated for their long hours, if at all.
Many businesses classify them as managers and executives, paying them a fixed salary with no premium for overtime. But many of them say their hours make them feel more like production workers on an assembly line. Some are demanding to be paid accordingly.
Alan Truex, a sportswriter for The Houston Chronicle, had a job doing something most people would hardly consider to be work: He watched hours and hours of baseball. Following the Houston Astros on the road, he racked up enough frequent-flier miles to take his wife on the occasional foreign trip. Team owners invited the couple to lavish celebrity parties.
But for all the glitz, the long hours began to wear on Mr. Truex, recalled Phyllis Truex, his former wife. From spring training in February until the end of the World Series in October, he devoted an average 51 hours a week to watching baseball and writing stories, and that was not counting the constant travel. His marriage began to unravel. His elderly parents fell ill and died, and he was not able to spend as much time with them as he wanted, Ms. Truex said.
Mr. Truex asked his employer for overtime pay. His boss replied that he was a salaried professional and not entitled to the premium. The next time Mr. Truex asked, he had a copy of the federal overtime law in his hand and a tape recorder hidden in his jacket. Again, his boss said no.
Mr. Truex sued Hearst Communications Inc., the Chronicle's parent company, entering his timelogs and a transcript of his conversations as evidence. The Chronicle settled with him out of court. Mr. Truex is barred by the agreement from discussing any aspect of the case, but other Houston media have reported that he received $300,000 to $500,000. He also remains an employee of the paper, reviewing restaurants out of his home.
Bob Carlquist, The Chronicle's vice president for administration and human resources, declined to comment, saying the paper never discusses disputes with employees.
It is precisely that sort of dispute that the current Congressional bills are meant to preclude. Measures now under consideration identify several types of information-economy workers -- including computer network analysts and database administrators and even funeral directors -- and specifically define them as management, barred from receiving overtime pay.
Yet another provision being considered would go further, allowing employers to reduce workers' regular pay and make up the difference in bonuses. Employees' total pay for every hour worked would be unchanged, but overtime compensation would fall since it would be calculated on a lower wage.
Advocates of these provisions say they would enhance American competitiveness. Opponents worry, though, that the changes are poorly understood by the public and are going largely unchallenged by organized labor. The provisions are under discussion as part of coalition-building for the proposed $1 increase in the minimum wage, which is expected to be passed this fall.
Should the measures be enacted, two things would happen, said Edward Montgomery, deputy secretary of labor. Many workers would see their income shrink, he said, "and second, who knows how many hours they would be compelled to work to make it up?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of deletions during editing, an article on Sunday about growing resistance to mandatory overtime work omitted a reference to a new book that directed The Times to some of those interviewed. The book, a history of efforts to regulate the workweek, is "Moments Are the Elements of Profit," by Prof. Marc Linder of the University of Iowa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna and Glendon Churchill's son Brent died in an on-the-job accident after working two and a half days on a total of five hours of sleep. (Scott Perry for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL MAINE POWER CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MAINE, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. OVERTIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); STRIKES (76%); VETO (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



414 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 6;Column 1;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
A Fine Place to Work, But Can You Fly There?

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN

DATELINE: RENO, Nev.

 BODY:
LIKE a modern-day conquistador, Roger Norman surveys a vast expanse of open brush and sage, and dreams of El Dorado.
He has plans to turn his 104,000 empty acres here into the Tahoe-Reno Industrial Center, the largest industrial park in North America, with 120 million square feet of industrial and warehouse space, power plants, movie studios and even a racetrack. He is sure that he could fill it with new-economy tenants, as he has done at South Meadows, a smaller project closer to Reno that is near completion. 
 Only one ingredient is missing, he said: a sky filled with planes heading toward Reno's modern airport.
"You can't build things fast enough here," said Mr. Norman, 37. "But without the air traffic, how do we accommodate the growth that wants to come here?"
Before November 1998, there were plenty of flights to Reno, most of them flown by Reno Air, an independent carrier that had grown to serve a large chunk of the West. Then AMR, the parent of American Airlines, acquired Reno Air for $124 million and began reducing service. Despite complaints from business and political leaders, the number of nonstop flights on all airlines to Reno -- 127 daily from 28 cities in 1997 -- has fallen to just 88 daily from 12 cities today.
The reasons lie in the economics of the hub-and-spoke route systems operated by American and other large carriers, according to Dale Morris, a spokesman for the airline. Most passengers are routed through a few high-volume hub airports, like American's at Dallas-Fort Worth, where they catch connecting flights to their final destinations. Away from the hubs, only the most popular routes have nonstop service, and according to Mr. Morris, "secondary markets" like Reno "don't have the lift" to warrant many direct flights.
Reno is a conservatively minded, pro-business city, and people here acknowledge the capitalist logic of American's stance. But they had grown used to the broader service that their hometown airline had provided, and its disappearance leaves them fearing for Reno's long-term ability to compete with other cities in the region, most notably Las Vegas.
Developers like Mr. Norman worry that demand for ambitious projects already in the pipeline will be undercut if prospective tenants find it a nuisance to get in and out of town by air. Gambling-industry executives worry that making Reno less accessible will further widen the gap between Reno's casinos and those in Las Vegas, and perhaps make Reno more vulnerable to competition from new Indian-owned casinos springing up in California.
SUCH concerns are increasingly commonplace in "second-tier" cities, said John Kasarda, president of the Kenan Institute for Private Enterprise at the University of North Carolina. The hub-and-spoke air traffic system leaves even rapidly growing cities like Reno feeling marginalized.
It's not just a matter of tourism. For a city that wants to keep growing, being an easily accessible air hub -- what Professor Kasarda calls an "aerotropolis" -- is crucial to attracting high-technology and Internet businesses and investment, he said.
Electronic commerce companies in particular, with their emphasis on speed as a competitive advantage, have come to understand that warehousing and handling goods in places where they can be rapidly and efficiently distributed is just as vital to their success as having plenty of bandwidth and server capacity: more than 70 percent of e-commerce sales are shipped through express delivery services, he said.
Businesspeople in the technology sector travel more than their counterparts in the traditional economy, Professor Kasarda said -- in some studies, up to four times as often.
So it is not surprising that even cities with everything else going for them -- from land to tax rates to infrastructure -- can find their growth threatened by a lack of direct air service. Metropolitan areas like Tulsa, Okla., and Raleigh-Durham, N.C., have wrestled with perceived air-service shortfalls in recent years, and have galvanized political and business leaders to find solutions.
Frustrations over the paucity of flights to Wisconsin in the early 1980's even prompted Kimberly-Clark, the paper products giant then with headquarters near Milwaukee, to lease a jet and begin running its own airline. The service was opened to the public in 1984 as Midwest Express, and has since been spun off as a separate company.
WHAT the Renos, Tulsas and Raleighs care most about are nonstop flights to major business centers like New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco.
"Many midsized cities have become preoccupied about this," Professor Kasarda said. "They see it as key to their economic development. Businesspeople hate to change planes and listen to the music at O'Hare. Time is money for these people."
In Reno, business and political leaders are casting about for ways to entice other airlines to expand service to Reno and replace the flights that American has trimmed. American, Southwest Airlines and other carriers have been visited by officials here, but so far the lobbying has not yielded any changes.
State Senator Randolph Townsend, who represents the city and is the chairman of the Legislature's commerce and labor committee, said the state is considering incentives ranging from state contracts to reductions in fuel taxes and landing fees to obliging airlines, including start-up regional carriers like Allegiant Air, based in Fresno, Calif.
Never mind that such proposals run counter to the free-market ideology that dominates politics here; loss of direct air service could "really hurt in the long run," Mr. Townsend said, even though job and income-growth statistics in the Reno area have yet to show definite signs of weakening.
But a harbinger of losses may be visible in the recent decision by Reno's largest manufacturer, International Game Technology, to keep its 300-person sales and marketing operation in Las Vegas, where executives and technicians have access to a much wider array of flights to places around the country and, increasingly, the world.
The president of the company, Tom Butler, said that operating from Reno with its current level of air service meant adding up to two extra days to every trip to the East Coast or overseas.
"If we were to locate today," he said, "we'd put everything in Las Vegas."
Mr. Butler became head of the company, whose plant is in Mr. Norman's South Meadows industrial park, in 1996, before American acquired Reno Air.
Now, he said, "it bugs customers when we have to bring them here, and it takes away one of the things that would help bring sophisticated employees here."
Smaller businesses smart at the loss of service, too. Addi Gallery has exhibition space in Reno, Maui and most recently Las Vegas; it also has a new Internet-based art business called GalleryRow.com. Winifred Addi, the company's chief operating officer, said that the loss of Reno Air's direct service to Orange County, Calif., and San Diego kept potential customers away from her Reno location, and that cutbacks in flights to San Jose had hampered development of the Web site part of the business.
"We had a meeting with 25 top representatives of Bay Area and Orange County tech companies, and people just didn't want to wait around," she said. "They were all worrying about how to catch a flight to get themselves home. If the meeting had been in a place like L.A., we could have started earlier and gone into the evening. It really hurts."
The biggest potential losers are the casinos, which remain the bulwark of the region's economy. Glen Carano, marketing director for the Silver Legacy Casino in downtown Reno, said the loss of convenient service to Orange County, San Diego and other markets threatened to depress an important category of business -- bookings for large conventions.
"It's a challenge when it's tough to get here, and I am going to have a hard time getting them to come," Mr. Carano said. "We sit here and think we are at the center of the world, but you've got travel planners with thousands of markets and hundreds of airports to look at. We are just a little pimple to them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Grass-Roots Business column last Sunday, about the economic effects of reduced air service to Reno, Nev., misstated the surname of the chief executive of International Game Technology, a company based there, who worried that the cutbacks made the city less competitive. He is Tom Baker, not Butler.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Winifred Addi says the reduced air service to Reno, Nev., keeps customers away from her company's gallery, directed by Dominick Fasone. (Andy Barron for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RENO, NV, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (70%); TAHOE-RENO INDUSTRIAL CENTER (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAHOE-RENO INDUSTRIAL CENTER (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEVADA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. AIRLINES (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: JOHN KASARDA (64%); ROGER NORMAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



415 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 3;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
And Now, a Few More Words About Breasts

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
FLIPPING through late-night talk shows, glancing at advertising billboards or even walking the streets in Midtown Manhattan, it is hard to escape the conclusion that the nation is witnessing an epidemic of buxomness.
Empirically, women's breasts have been getting bigger for almost a decade (as the news media never tires of gleefully reporting). In 1991, the most frequently purchased bra size in America switched from 34B to 36B, according to NPD, a market research firm in Port Washington, N.Y., that collects data for the largest bra manufacturers. In the last 12 months, NPD has recorded another jump in the most popular size, this time to 36C. 
 Natural growth accounts for only a portion of the visibly more ample curves swelling out of sweaters and stretchy T-shirts these days. Sales of bras that pad and lift and surgical breast implants have also reached record levels. When the Miracle Bra and Wonderbra were introduced separately in 1994, padded and push-up lingerie accounted for less than 3 percent of the United States bra market. In the first five months of this year, however, they accounted for 10 percent of all bra sales at department stores, according to NPD, and 15 percent of sales at Victoria's Secret.
Meanwhile, now that silicone implants are no longer thought to cause auto-immune disease, surgical breast augmentation is more popular than ever. Last year, 191,583 American women chose to have implants, according to the American Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. That's a 51 percent increase from the previous year.
Not all societies are enchanted by Rubenesque figures. In Japan, for example, the nape of the neck is far more erotic territory, while in Brazil, where reduction surgery is very popular, an overly ample bosom is seen as low-class, a libido killer, according to "A History of the Breast," by Marilyn Yalom (Ballantine, 1997). But in Western society (and America in particular), large breasts have been in vogue almost continually since Jane Russell defined the pronounced but girdled silhouette in the 1940's.
Bra company executives chalk up the recent surge in breast size to too many double-cheese Whoppers and super-size fries. A generally aging population seems to be making its mark, since women tend to enlarge with age -- but even bra styles aimed at younger buyers have seen an increase in average size. And even if obesity goes a long way toward explaining the gains, it says nothing about the frenzy for artificial products. Not only are more and more women getting implants for cosmetic reasons, the size of the average implant has grown at least half a size, said Dr. James L. Baker Jr., chairman of the breast committee for the aesthetic plastic surgery association.
Part of the increase can be traced to the healthy economy, Dr. Baker said. The average breast enlargement operation runs $4,000 to $6,000 -- and that's not including the implants themselves, which cost $1,000 a pair and are guaranteed for life.
Some students of cleavage think women are simply using new technology to accomplish an end that has been important for generations. In 17th-century France, for example, some court ladies used whale-bone stays under their clothing to help them burst out of the fashionable decolletage. "We used bobby socks," said Helen Gurley Brown, the former editor of Cosmopolitan, explaining how she gave her waif-thin models the full-bosomed look for her magazine's covers in the 1970's. "Or whatever it took."
But changing cultural norms surely play into the decision to augment as well. Studies have shown that most women who opt for surgery say they don't want to look like bombshells, they just ask to look "normal." But what is normal? "Women say, 'I want a better body image,' " Dr. Baker said. " 'I want to buy a bathing suit whose top and bottom are the same size.' "
It is hard to make the case that Mother Nature considers such symmetry the baseline, particularly among women over 30 who have borne two children and eat a typical American diet (a major group of implant clients), but there it is. And as average size is defined upwards, in part by more implants, the number of women who need them to meet the new standards for "normal" also rises, and so the circle goes.
Another theory for the recent reshaping of feminine physiques is that the breast in general, and breast tinkering in particular, has become less of a taboo. "We are at this moment," Ms. Yalom said, "where breasts are in the public eye in a way they never were before." Ms. Yalom added that efforts to raise awareness about breast cancer may be partly responsible for women's new willingness to speak openly about their bodies.
Whatever the catalyst, there is little doubt that bare -- and barely covered -- breasts have become a more common sight everywhere from fashion runways to city sidewalks. When ABC broadcast naked breasts for the first time intentionally during the miniseries "Roots" in 1977, it prompted national soul-searching about sexual mores. In July, when a woman casually flashed her front as the camera panned the live outdoor audience for the "Today Show," the hosts, Katie Couric and Matt Lauer, laughed it off.
Paradoxically, the more relaxed attitude toward breast exposure has not led many women to become more comfortable with the breasts they have, but rather, less embarrassed to pursue the perfect hourglass figures they always desired.
If there is one comfort for the 34B-crowd, it is that the trend toward larger breasts may be slowing. The female sex icons Demi Moore, Pamela Anderson Lee and Jenny McCarthy, for example, each of whom propelled their careers in part on the size of their artificially enhanced busts, have each opted to have their implants removed recently -- and not for health reasons. Ms. Anderson said she desired to return to her "natural state," the actress's spokesperson told People magazine at the time.
And as the "perfect" Stepford Wife 36C becomes more easily available, ideas about "normal" are bound to shift again. "Whatever your beauty ideal, it is going to be something that only a small number of women can achieve," said Valerie Steele, chief curator of the museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology. "Once the technology makes it possible to get closer to that ideal, standards are raised. We will up the ante. It won't be just size, it will be perkiness or the perfect nipple."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An Ideas & Trends article last Sunday about a trend toward increasing size of women's breasts referred incorrectly to the actress Demi Moore. She underwent breast augmentation surgery, but has not had the implants removed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An X-ray showing a silicone breast implant. (Howard Sochurek/The Stock Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (68%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LINGERIE (91%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); WOMEN (77%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); OBESITY (72%); LINGERIE MFG (71%); AGING TRENDS (70%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (69%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: MARILYN YALOM (72%); JAMES L BAKER JR (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



416 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Working on the Railroad

BYLINE: By Henry Kisor; Henry Kisor, the book editor of The Chicago Sun-Times, is the author of "Zephyr: Tracking a Dream Across America."

 BODY:

 Nothing Like It
In the World
 The Men Who Built
 the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869.
 By Stephen E. Ambrose.
 Illustrated. 431 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $28. 
 FOR sheer engineering gee-whiz, the American transcontinental railroad of the 19th century ranks with the Great Wall of China, the Pyramids of Giza and the Panama Canal. Today's traveler cannot drink in a single sweeping view of the sinuous line of steel stretching from Omaha to Sacramento, but in its entirety it is still a marvel for the ages.
Its importance in American history cannot be overstated. The 2,000-mile line was the economic umbilical cord that finally linked the mother states of the East with the fledgling California on the West, beginning the end of the frontier struggle against mountains, deserts and rivers, and threatening American Indian culture as well as native species like the bison and gray wolf. The political and cultural impact of the transcontinental railroad is felt to this day; belief in the expensive antimissile dream Star Wars had its roots in the nation's boundless optimism, born with the Pacific railroad, that with money and determination it could build anything to solve any problem.
The epic story of the railroad's construction between 1863 and 1869 has been told time and again, most recently in David Haward Bain's monumental "Empire Express" (1999). Now Stephen E. Ambrose offers a richly readable new work, "Nothing Like It in the World." On its smaller, more accessible scale, Ambrose's book compares well with Bain's, although Ambrose of course cannot match Bain for argument-settling detail, especially about financial matters.
As he did in his World War II oral histories and in "Undaunted Courage," his chronicle of the Lewis and Clark expedition, Ambrose focuses on the lives of ordinary people rather than on those of movers and shakers. But he does not slight the powerful pirates who created the Credit Mobilier for the Union Pacific Railroad and the Contract and Finance Company for the Central Pacific Railroad -- granting lucrative construction contracts to themselves while nearly bankrupting the railroads they owned.
Ambrose ably retells the familiar stories of the railroad visionaries Theodore Judah in the West and Grenville Dodge in the East, and of the Daddy Warbuckses who commanded the project from both ends. They were the Big Four of the eastward-bound Central Pacific in California: Leland Stanford, Collis P. Huntington, Charles Crocker and Mark Hopkins. They were also Thomas Durant, Oakes Ames and Oliver Ames of the Union Pacific, building westward from Omaha. Abraham Lincoln is present, too, as a farsighted railroad lawyer before the Civil War, and Brigham Young, Ulysses S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman also make appearances.
The builders ran the project as a war -- a war between two competing railroads to lay as much track as possible before meeting at a central point undetermined in the beginning. Like a war, the project needed government financing, in huge federal loans and land grants. Like a war, it needed to be run like an army, with military discipline in the ranks. And like a war, the project offered immense possibilities for financial chicanery. (That officers of the Central Pacific and the Union Pacific were deeply crooked there is no doubt, but Ambrose gives them some benefit of the doubt: in the beginning they were the only ones willing to risk their fortunes, and in the end the government was paid back every penny for every bond it issued. It was the small investor who was bilked, the worker whose pay was shorted.)
Most of all, the project needed many thousands of workers. "Nearly everything was done by muscle power," Ambrose writes. "The transcontinental railroad was the last great building project to be done mostly by hand." Handcarts moved the dirt from cuts and to fills. Horses and mules, black powder and nitroglycerine helped, but it was mostly men with sledges and drills, mauls and picks who did the job, working under the burning sun, through choking snows and never-ending rain, and in tunnels blasting their way through unyielding granite at inches a day. They also had to defend themselves against Indians who saw their way of life disappearing.
The workers came from all over -- demobilized Union and Confederate soldiers; former slaves; new Irish, Cornish and German immigrants; Mormons from Salt Lake City; and especially the courageous, disciplined Chinese, whose efficient, self-effacing teamwork Ambrose's heart most belongs to. It must have been frustrating for him, a master at gathering firsthand stories of ordinary folks and weaving them into powerful eyewitness narratives, to discover that the Chinese had left virtually no letters or personal accounts about the project. Ambrose had to rely on other sources, like the journalism of the time, which fortunately was both copious and colorful, and some obscure but revealing nuggets:
"In the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley, there are Chinese-English and English-Chinese phrase books from 1867. The English speakers learned how to say in Chinese: 'Can you get me a good boy? He wants $8 per month? He ought to be satisfied with $6. I think he is very stupid. Come at 7 every morning. Go home at 8 every night. Light the fire. Sweep the rooms. Wash the clothes. Wash the windows. Wash the floor. Sweep the stairs. Trim the lamps. I want to cut his wages.' Two phrases that never appear in the English-Chinese book are: 'How are you?' and 'Thank you.' "
Ambrose's scholarship seems impeccable, supported by copious notes and an extensive bibliography. He writes a brisk, colloquial, straightforward prose that not only is easy to read but also bears the reader on shoulders of wonder and excitement, especially late in the book as the Central Pacific and Union Pacific railheads grow ever closer. (Occasionally, however, the style can become artless, and even employ teenage locutions like "for sure" and "for real." In one place Ambrose refers to the Big Four as "these guys.")
From time to time Ambrose makes the kind of connection only he can. A cold spell in Utah froze the ground solid two feet deep, so that workmen could not use picks or shovels but had to loosen the earth with charges of black powder. "In Europe in World War II," Ambrose writes in a footnote, "American G.I.'s used their hand grenades, or dynamite charges, to blast frozen earth apart so that they could dig foxholes."
"Nothing Like It in the World" may be a popular history, but it is also a complex one, and the several maps of the route as well as a section of contemporary photographs greatly aid the reader's understanding of its builders' grand accomplishment. For the most part, the route of Interstate 80 from Omaha to Sacramento closely follows the original railroad grade as the 19th-century surveyors laid it out. Even with electronic instruments modern technicians could not have done better.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: East and West meet in Utah on May 10, 1869, in the famous photograph by A. J. Russell. (Union Pacific Museum Collection/from "Nothing Like It In The World"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (72%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAMMALS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); HISTORY (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL WAR (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); WORLD WAR II (67%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN E AMBROSE (96%); DAVID HAWARD BAIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



417 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1962 words

HEADLINE: Fox in the Henhouse

BYLINE: By Bryan Burrough; Bryan Burrough, a special correspondent at Vanity Fair, is co-author of "Barbarians at the Gate" and the author of "Dragonfly: NASA and the Crisis Aboard Mir."

 BODY:

 The Informant
 A True Story.
 By Kurt Eichenwald.
 Illustrated. 606 pp. New York:
 Broadway Books. $26.
 
 Rats In The Grain
 The Dirty Tricks and Trials
 of Archer Daniels Midland.
 By James B. Lieber.
 Illustrated. 418 pp. New York:
 Four Walls Eight Windows. $26. 
 With the exception of Michael Lewis's quirky "New New Thing," a keyhole glimpse into the workings of Silicon Valley, the last few years have not produced an abundance of memorable nonfiction narratives set in corporate America. Among those who have attempted the genre, there's been some debate why. It's true the world of balance sheets and stock charts hasn't exactly been a magnet for the most creative and inspired writers of the generation. But there's also a sense that the genre itself may be limited: once readers have embraced one good book on an uproarious takeover battle, a vicious proxy fight, a tale of Hollywood excess, a high-tech startup or an insider-trading scandal, it hasn't been shown that they're left hungering for more. Clearly, new areas of corporate behavior need to be explored. Even so, who would have thought the next great business book would emerge from that most banal of economic crimes, price fixing?
The book is Kurt Eichenwald's "Informant," and it chronicles the mid-1990's price-fixing scandal at the Archer Daniels Midland Company, the politically connected Illinois maker of feed and grain additives perhaps best known for its "Supermarket to the World" commercials. Eichenwald, a reporter for The New York Times, has written what may be the best business narrative since the early 1980's, the heyday of books like David McClintick's "Indecent Exposure" and Ken Auletta's "Greed and Glory on Wall Street."
In "The Informant" Eichenwald poses the unlikely question: What happens when a government informant at the heart of a global criminal conspiracy turns out to be a bipolar, serial-lying embezzler? Such questions should draw authors like flies, and indeed, "The Informant" is one of two new books on the ADM scandal. The other is "Rats in the Grain," by James B. Lieber. Lieber, the author of "Friendly Takeover: How an Employee Buyout Saved a Steel Town," is a lawyer and unfortunately writes like it. Worse, he chooses to tell the story of ADM by focusing on the trial of two of its executives, which is a bit like telling the story of the Titanic by focusing on the inquest.
Eichenwald focuses instead on Mark Whitacre, the peppy scientist in his 30's who headed the ADM division that makes, among other things, a chemical called lysine, which is used to fatten chickens. It was Whitacre who first alerted the F.B.I. to meetings ADM was having with its Japanese and South Korean competitors to agree upon the price and amount of lysine they would each produce. These agreements, illegal under United States law, artificially propped up lysine prices, cheating chicken growers like Tyson Foods and driving up the costs of things like Chicken McNuggets.
For two years Whitacre wore F.B.I. wires during these meetings, and the tapes of what took place are among the most anger-inducing examples of corporate misbehavior ever put on a page. In meetings set at palmy country clubs and Hawaiian golf resorts, American executives who are being paid millions of dollars openly plot to rip off consumers. Along the way, Whitacre's microphones record jaw-dropping illustrations of the locker-room attitudes pervading ADM's executive suites, including the graphic speculations of the company's vice chairman, Michael Andreas, son of ADM's powerful chairman Dwayne Andreas, as to the bedroom talents of ADM secretaries and female executives.
The book is replete with examples of corporate misbehavior of a kind that is often rumored but seldom documented. A Japanese executive, given a tour of ADM's lysine plant, wipes a handkerchief along a railing, hoping to steal a stray microbe that could reveal the secret behind ADM's lysine-producing bacteria. ADM allegedly hires prostitutes to seduce a competitor's executives in hopes that pillow talk might reveal proprietary business data -- a premise as silly as the tactic would be abhorrent.
But Whitacre's involvement in ADM's illegal behavior is only the starting point for a story that time and again had me turning to my wife and saying things like "No way!" and "You've got to read this." Because while the price-fixing scandal is very real, almost everything else about Whitacre turns out to be a lie. Like so many confidential informants, Whitacre is left deeply corrupted by his brushes with corruption: In Whitacre's case, the crime that the the F.B.I. ultimately uncovers is a multimillion-dollar embezzlement scheme so brazen, so cinematic, that it leaves ADM private detectives speculating that he was attempting to live out a John Grisham novel (they had "The Firm" in mind).
When all this first spooled out onto business pages several years ago, the ADM scandal was hopelessly confusing. (Attempting to explain his stealing, for instance, Whitacre claimed that kickbacks and the illegal use of Swiss bank accounts were accepted within the upper reaches of ADM as a sort of unofficial bonus system.) But in Eichenwald's hands the story emerges as linear and wholly transparent. What makes "The Informant" so powerful is Eichenwald's decision to tell the story through the eyes of the F.B.I. agents and lawyers whose cases -- and careers -- depend on Whitacre's trustworthiness. In the first 150 pages, the reader learns a series of crucial facts about Whitacre, including his involvement in an extortion attempt by a Japanese executive who has sabotaged the bacteria used in ADM's lysine plant. But as in a good movie, nothing is as it seems, and the reader discovers this only as the thunderstruck F.B.I. agents and government attorneys slowly peel back each layer of Whitacre's lies.
Not that Whitacre's viewpoint is discounted -- far from it. There are touching scenes, some in bed at night, in which his wife Ginger attempts to fathom her husband's strange new life as an F.B.I. informant. There are glimpses of the predictable stresses he endures, as well as genuinely wacky moments when Whitacre inexplicably brags of his undercover talents to some of the very people he should be investigating. In one scene, Whitaker shows his gardener -- his gardener! -- an F.B.I. briefcase in which a tape recorder is hidden. "Just start calling me 014," Whitacre boasts. "Because I'm twice as smart as 007."
Time and again Whitacre's secret is almost uncovered. At a key price-fixing meeting, to cite just one example, executives from ADM and its Asian competitors are joking about the possibility that their schemes will be uncovered by the Federal Trade Commission. When there comes a knock on the meeting-room door, a Japanese executive jokes, "It's the F.T.C." It is in fact the F.B.I., as an agent disguised as a room-service waiter appears and slips Whitacre a new tape recorder. His had broken.
Whitacre's downward spiral inevitably draws comparisons to that of Jeffrey Wigand, the whistle-blowing scientist at Brown & Williamson, the tobacco company whose story was portrayed in last year's movie "The Insider." Under attack from the industry for his role, Wigand saw his life implode. His wife left him. He lost his job. But as a dramatic character Wigand is stale bread when compared to the volatile Whitacre, whose self-inflicted fall features multiple suicide attempts and, ultimately, prison. Wigand was trying to do the right thing. Whitacre was nuts.
In less capable hands the byzantine plot of "The Informant" might be confusing. But Eichenwald, whose first book, "Serpent on the Rock," was a promising if uninspired investigation of Prudential Securities, keeps things clear and concise. There is dialogue aplenty, much of it lifted from F.B.I. tapes and reports. Every scene is set; the book has a wonderful sense of place, especially on the nights Whitacre races around Decatur, ADM's little hometown, meeting with F.B.I. agents at Best Western hotels and Olive Garden restaurants. The writing is lean, spare and without pretense.
"The Informant" is not without its faults. When its focus strays from Whitacre the pace slows, here and there bogging down in tangents involving dozens of interchangeable minor players, mostly lawyers. The last 50 or so pages meander, as Eichenwald is obliged to tie up a mop's worth of loose ends. And despite its wealth of sources -- every major character has clearly spent hours in front of Eichenwald's tape recorder -- he is never able to bring Dwayne Andreas himself into sharp focus, nor does he adequately address Andreas's culpability in the scandals that led to his retirement.
But the oddest omission is a comprehensive analysis of Whitacre himself. The man is emotionally unstable and prone to bouts of mental illness, apparently resulting from what his psychologist diagnoses as a bipolar disorder. There is a wonderful "Rosebud" moment toward the end of the book where the reader finally learns the unlikely -- and appropriately exotic -- event that propelled Whitacre toward his snowballing series of falsehoods. But nowhere does Eichenwald tackle the difficult job of attempting to explain Whitacre. Over and over F.B.I. agents and prosecutors ask why Whitacre, whose income is in the million-dollar-a-year range, is working with them. Whitacre himself is no help; he rationalizes that his undercover work will lead ADM's board of directors to fire upper management and elevate him to chief executive officer. Other than this bit of delusion, a satisfactory explanation for Whitacre's behavior is never offered.
Like so many reporters-turned-author, Eichenwald is reluctant to enter the marshy ground of analysis and instead chooses to let his facts do the talking. Yet key facts are left unexplored. There is no section in the book that delves into Whitacre's life before ADM, where light could presumably be shed on any precursors to his behavior at ADM. Did he tape the other ninth graders? Demand kickbacks on his paper route? The few tantalizing clues suggest that Eichenwald missed the chance to put his subject's behavior in its fullest context. Still, rarely are episodes of corporate misbehavior rendered as unvarnished as those in "The Informant." It ranks with "A Civil Action" as one of the best nonfiction books of the last decade.
"Rats in the Grain" tells much the same story, but forsakes human drama in favor of legal analysis framed by the trial of Michael Andreas and another ADM executive, a matter "The Informant" relegates to its epilogue. Lieber marches through the trial witness by witness, quoting liberally and incorporating trial transcripts, even tossing in the judge's comments.
Given the richness of Eichenwald's narrative, Lieber's decision to focus on the trial is a bewildering one. Even a murder trial is rarely riveting unto itself: a price-fixing trial is about as exciting as it sounds. Worse, Lieber at times seems to go out of his way to expunge the record of color. Rather than quoting from one of Michael Andreas's earthy soliloquies on ADM women, for instance, Lieber describes one such incident this way: "On the way back to Decatur, the high jinks again included discussing women in the office. The discussion was interesting on a number of levels. It showed the personal corruption of patriarchal power at ADM, where no female ever has penetrated the inner circle, a white male bastion, and where women were viewed as toys."
Rigorous and fact-filled, "Rats in the Grain," with some 90 pages of notes, lists and tabular matter, reads and feels like a textbook or a Congressional report. It should be of interest primarily to antitrust lawyers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (95%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (95%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (95%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (95%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (95%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (95%); FOUR WALLS EIGHT WINDOWS (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); WRITERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRICE FIXING (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (60%); STARTUPS (53%); 

PERSON: MARK WHITACRE (91%); KURT EICHENWALD (79%); JAMES B LIEBER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



418 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 57; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2093 words

HEADLINE: Destination: N. Y.

BYLINE: By Kurt Andersen; Kurt Andersen is the author of "Turn of the Century" and a founder of Inside, a new media company.

 BODY:
"How the lunatics flung up their caps and roared in sympathy with the headlong engine and the driving tide!" -- Charles Dickens, on arrival in New York, passing the insane asylum on Blackwell's Island aboard the steamboat New York
Sure, there are people who simply wind up in New York, find themselves living here the way people wind up in Des Moines or Fullerton or Fort Worth, by accident or default. She is raised at 74th and Amsterdam, rents her own first apartment up West End Avenue at 103rd, then settles in a brownstone duplex in Park Slope; he grows up in Bayside and after dental school decamps a few miles west, to a junior two-bedroom at 67th and York with a view (of Queens). Or they arrive for college and never leave; or they're transferred in for a headquarters tour of duty; or they tag along with a wife or boyfriend. But surely, for more people here than anywhere else, moving to New York was an urban choice, particular and self-conscious, bedazzling and scary. Moving to New York requires a yearning -- to live by one's wits or test one's mettle; to make art or a pile of cash (or, during the 80's, both at once); to live nakedly or anonymously or simply to get as far as possible from Des Moines or Fullerton or Fort Worth; or even, still, to breathe free. Fifty-one years ago, E.B. White wrote that those who were "born somewhere else and came to New York in quest of something" make up "the greatest" New York. Each of them "embraces New York with the intense excitement of first love" and must come here "willing to be lucky." 
 Given the cost of living, the ambient hypertension and the clattering grind, the decision to move to New York remains at least somewhat irrational, requiring a kind of quasi-religious commitment. And yet in this ostensibly hyperrational age, people from all over still make that decision in staggering numbers. It's corny but true: arriving in New York, from the provinces or overseas, remains a central episode in the American narrative, a kind of living iconic rite. The mythic pull of the city has been gathering force for a long time, encoded in a body of literature so extensive and so familiar as to constitute its own genre. Walt Whitman invented (and embodied) the modern ode-to-New York mode, embracing the coarse and unlovable aspects of the place together with the plainly grand ones. His poems have colored coming-to-New York stories ever since, seeping into American Bildungsromane that celebrate the grunge and stink and bloody-minded rattle of the city along with the martinis and art and sleek talk. In this romantic urban landscape, game tyros dare the tough big city to defeat or disillusion them -- David Copperfields without all that David Copperfield stuff that Holden Caulfield was too cool to indulge explicitly. Stories as various as "Catcher in the Rye," "The Godfather," "A Chorus Line," "New York, New York," "Working Girl," "Bright Lights, Big City," "Wall Street," "Slaves of New York," "Angela's Ashes" and "Felicity" are all New York newcomer stories, each somewhere on the spectrum between the perpetually wowed ("Breakfast at Tiffany's") and the relentlessly dark ("Midnight Cowboy").
Each generation and each caste has had its fresh iteration of the New York myth. (Jackson Pollock and the Beats replace John Reed and the Communists, Don DeLillo replaces John O'Hara, "Seinfeld" replaces "Annie Hall," Tito Puente replaces Duke Ellington, Fran Lebowitz replaces Dorothy Parker, Wendy Wasserstein and Paul Rudnick replace Kaufman and Hart, Melissa Bank replaces Dawn Powell, Jeff Koons replaces Andy Warhol, Biggie Smalls replaces Charlie Parker.) But the city's starring role in that myth -- and its resulting position in the popular imagination of America and the world -- remains the same. Even the New York that Dickens depicted in 1842 is uncannily familiar: the city, he wrote, was manic (people and vehicles "all travelling to and fro: and never idle. . . . These restless Insects"), physically delirious ("confused heaps of buildings"), fashion-forward ("Heaven save the ladies, how they dress! What pinking of thin stockings, and pinching of thin shoes, and fluttering of ribbons and silk tassels") and media-mad ("fifty newspapers . . . pimping and pandering for all degrees of vicious taste, and . . . imputing to every man in public life the coarsest and the vilest motives").
The real-life city of New York, of course, has recently undergone a radical transformation. Twenty-five years ago, the city was in bankruptcy, the sidewalks teemed with crazy people, commercial sex was in its golden age and swaths of West 42nd Street and the Bowery were druggy dead zones. (All of which young knee-jerk nihilists, nurtured by a century of Whitmans and Allen Ginsbergs and Lou Reeds, regarded as attractive anti-amenities.) Today there are brand-new chunks of New York that could pass for Toronto or San Diego; Times Square is spectacularly family-friendly (again); Central Park and Bryant Park have been redeemed to an extent not possible to imagine in the 70's. There are a third as many murders, thousands of new information-age jobs, a shocking sense of civic life more or less in control. But while starting salaries have doubled, some rents have quintupled. For people without an M.B.A. or a law degree, entry-level pay no longer covers a decent one-bedroom in a pleasant Manhattan neighborhood. The supply of cheap garrets has been outsourced to Brooklyn.
For most people who come here from Sri Lanka, or Nigeria, or Ecuador, of course, there is nothing bittersweet about the new, improved New York of 2000. They do not come here because they loved "Bright Lights, Big City" in high school or heard about the Cedar Tavern on N.P.R. They come for the same reason immigrants have always come: the chance to make more money than they could in Bangladesh or Ukraine or Ireland. And while today they don't believe (if they ever did) that the streets are paved with gold, they do know, or sense, that nowhere in America is there more opportunity for sheer stamina to be rewarded. A taxi can be driven 18 hours a day. Drywall can be taped 70 hours a week. Wallets and umbrellas and falafels can be peddled on the sidewalks pretty much all the time. In other words, the workaholic money madness of New York is part of the attraction for new arrivals at the bottom of the ladder as well as at the top. The couple from St. Kitts working five jobs between them surely belies the newest New York myth -- that there is no more middle or working class, only the rich and the permanently poor.
But for the immigrants who were drawn here from the American sticks (like me), the appeal is less obvious. Manhattanism has spread deep into the provinces. Epicurean grocery stores and Miramax films and alternative weeklies and imitation SoHo's are now a part of even small cities and leafy suburbs. So how has New York itself sustained its spell? Why do people still come here in such numbers, from so many other American places? For approximately the same reason, I think, that the new nationwide ubiquity of casino gambling and strip clubs improbably fed the explosive growth of Las Vegas during the last 20 years -- as more and more Americans acquire a taste in their hometowns for sin or old-fashioned urban civilization, more and more of them yearn for the wellspring, the big show, the real thing.
In retrospect, my childhood in Omaha, a half-mile from a cornfield, looks like a New York 101 distance-learning experiment. Every week on TV during the 1960's, I watched a couple of movies from the 1930's or 40's, almost all of them glorifications of this city -- My Man Godfrey," "His Girl Friday," "On the Town." On TV, half my pleasure in programs like Leonard Bernstein's "Young People's Concerts," "The Dick Cavett Show" and Johnny Carson's "Tonight" (before the move to California) derived from their unmistakable Manhattan tang -- the occasional evening clothes, the jokes about Central Park, the unapologetic cosmopolitanism. I played the cast album of "West Side Story" over and over and spent years studying Mad magazine, by far the New Yorkiest artifact generally available to children in Nebraska. Venturing regularly by bus into downtown Omaha -- alone, almost sneakily -- I managed to see the big old stone buildings, the used-book shops, the single adult theater, the liquory breezes from pitch-black bars, the people of color, the policemen on foot, the kooks, the bums, the suspicious characters and all the rest as a thrilling miniature glimpse of what New York might be like.
So, just after college, I turned down a good job in Alexandria, Va., and moved, unemployed, directly to New York. Like all newcomers, I felt my outsiderdom acutely. I've found that this is a feeling that attenuates but never entirely goes away -- living here is always part "Blade Runner," part Edith Wharton. And some of the pleasure of the place derives from those regular frissons of alienation.
Unlike San Francisco's or Seattle's, New York's scale makes overfamiliarity impossible. That rule extends to professional subcultures as well as to geography. Unlike Washington or Los Angeles, New York has no single, oppressively dominant professional realm, but a half-dozen different major leagues, countless self-obsessed pecking orders you've never even heard of. Whereas in more anodyne, more normal American cities, the treacly breeze from the Cinnabon shop at the mall is the single-most intense public aroma, New York assaults pedestrians with intense odors -- South Street's dead fish, the meat district's day-old beef, horse manure on Central Park South, peppers and hot fat in Chinatown. And whereas those cities are optimized to anticipate every consumer desire, New York, with its tiny markets and tinier kitchens, demands a constant rhythm of commercial interactions -- newspaper here, bread here, vegetables here, wine there -- that can be exhausting once the novelty wears off.
It is not a Welcome Wagon kind of place. Yet it can be more comfortable for newcomers than overtly "friendly" cities. New York's waves of immigration and emigration become a self-perpetuating spiral: newcomers as a class feel less like oddballs here, and so new newcomers keep pouring in, attracting more newcomers still. They ride that great assimilation machine, the subway, an egalitarian marvel that permits (O.K., forces) a real and immediate engagement with the urban tide unavailable in cities where everyone drives cars. Newcomers here wander on streets crowded with people and shops, getting a de facto crash course in urbanism. They eat among crowds of interesting strangers (during my first year here, I probably ate more restaurant meals than my relatively cosmopolitan parents ate in their whole lives), and every meal out is another chance to eavesdrop and stare at people you don't know -- a pleasure that in other cities can result in the police being summoned. So the newcomers don't stay newcomers for very long.
I envy new New Yorkers. not the rents they have to pay, or the loneliness that goes without saying. Assuming they arrive equipped with some basic New York catechism, I envy them that first year's plunge into the city of their imaginations.
Am I sentimentalizing? Should I be embarrassed by the civic-booster goosebumps I still get when I hear the first bars of "Rhapsody in Blue" and read the 30-year-old Dickens's first glimpses of the city? Is it undue pleasure I take in my 24-year-old niece's giddy arrival in the city this summer? She could have stayed in Minneapolis -- where she had an excellent job, free housing, plenty of friends, a progressive civic ambience and hot and cold running espresso -- rather than pay her share of $3,000 for a small three-bedroom walk-up on the unfashionable edge of Williamsburg. But instead she has moved to New York, simply because it's New York: New York for New York's sake.
The other night, she told me, she discovered a charming dive just down the block from her apartment where Latin Americans drink sweet cocktails and dance to merengue on the jukebox. "I thought there was just 'merengue music,"' she said, sounding like a postmodern That Girl, both amused by her own newcomer's excitement and also genuinely excited. "It turns out there are like a hundred different kinds of merengue!" A 43-year-old Peruvian she met at the bar, a man named Pepe, wants to take her out dancing in Manhattan. I doubt she'll go, but she couldn't be more pleased to have been asked, and to be here.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes in the key of New York by Vladimir Syomin, who arrived from Russia in September 1999. (Vladimir Syomin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COST OF LIVING (70%); POETRY (69%); HYPERTENSION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



419 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: The Candidates' Plans, Tested on the Web

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 13) says George W. Bush's economic plan does not add up. Governor Bush says it will. The voter is left bewildered, unnecessarily so. With so many Americans using personal computer software or the Web to analyze their personal financial futures under various economic assumptions, cannot some nonpartisan organization set up a Web site that lets voters test the viability of each candidate's economic plan? 
 The site could incorporate Congressional Budget Office projections and help voters make meaningful assumptions about rates of inflation, economic growth and other details. It could then calculate the projected consequences for Social Security, Medicare, new programs and taxes in coming years and show them to the voter. The Internet is democratizing the flow of information. Why not use it to further democratize the political process as well?
 
MARK J. EISNER
Ithaca, N.Y., Sept. 13, 2000
 
The writer is a lecturer in information technology at Cornell University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); POLITICS (87%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: EISNER, MARK J; KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



420 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Our Graying Budget Priorities

BYLINE: By Peter G. Peterson; Peter G. Peterson, an investment banker, is the author of "Gray Dawn: How the Coming Age Wave Will Transform America -- and the World."

 BODY:
The presidential candidates and the voters are now happily engaged in an orgy of self-congratulation for finally touching the third rail of American politics, Social Security and Medicare. We are told that we are confronting the hard choices that others less courageous have been unwilling to make.
The melancholy truth is that what poses for debate on entitlements may be worse than no debate at all. The bidding and one-upmanship on the campaign trail could easily lock the new president into indefensible positions that block genuine and badly needed reforms. 
 Instead of hard and honest choices, we are being presented with a rich menu of free lunches; to be politically correct these days is only to speak of the politically pleasant. In the abstract, who could argue against adding a prescription drug benefit to Medicare and beefing up Social Security benefits for working mothers and widows? As to some privatization of Social Security, who wouldn't want the chance to receive higher returns through personal retirement accounts, particularly if it involved no new contributions?
The only thing not discussed is what we would give up to get these new goodies. Apparently, these great economic times will go on as far as the eye can see. We can afford anything and cut taxes substantially to boot.
But the hard choices are neither abstract nor avoidable. Existing benefit programs are, by any reasonable definition, already unaffordable and unsustainable.
Take Social Security. Over the next 75 years, the real deficit is projected to be about $21 trillion, in inflation-adjusted dollars. But at least when it comes to Social Security, there are gradual and, yes, humane proposals available, like gradually increasing the eligibility age for full benefits and progressively reducing benefits for those whose incomes are above the median.
On the other hand, I have yet to see a proposal for Medicare reform that truly confronts the magnitude of what looms ahead. Even before adding a prescription drug benefit, Medicare Part A, which covers hospital bills, is facing a deficit of $12 trillion over the next 75 years. Trillions more will be needed to finance Part B, which covers doctor bills, home health services and other outpatient costs.
I believe reform will involve painful moral as well as political decisions. The nation is in love with high-cost, high-tech medicine, but as our population ages dramatically, how will we decide who gets what health care? No one dares to discuss rationing, the most toxic but inevitable of all subjects. These difficulties are one more reason we should hold back on tax cuts until we have, at the very least, genuinely reformed Social Security.
Already, we spend a disproportionate amount on senior citizens. A recent study by the Congressional Budget Office shows that spending on the elderly towers seven-to-one over spending on children. Overall, spending on seniors consumes 35 percent of the budget -- up from just 16 percent in 1965.
And the baby boomers haven't even retired yet. By 2050, according to White House projections, the major benefit programs for older Americans will consume an incredible 84 percent of budget outlays.
From 2010 to 2030, the cost of Social Security and Medicare is projected to rise, from 15 percent of a worker's taxable earnings to 28 percent or more. The burden would fall heavily on the middle class, the very group to which politicians are always promising tax cuts. And remember, the taxpayers stuck with these increases will be our children and grandchildren.
Why is there so little understanding of the long-term challenge? Two big myths are anesthetizing our judgment:
Myth No. 1: Social Security is in good shape because it has a trust fund. We are often told that the trust fund will keep the system solvent until 2037 if we do nothing and, if we make some minor tweaks, it will last until 2075. Who could get excited over such a distant danger?
What we are rarely told is that the trust fund is fiscally and economically meaningless, an accounting fiction; this money has already been spent. Its so-called assets are nothing but a stack of i.o.u.'s from the Treasury. By 2015, Social Security's annual costs will start to exceed its tax revenues by ever ballooning margins.
Because this is a pay-as-you-go system, Congress would then have to raise taxes, cut other spending or borrow from the public to redeem the i.o.u.'s -- precisely as if there were no trust fund -- or else take a heavy hatchet to Social Security and Medicare at the very moment the huge boomer generation is moving into its elder years.
Some argue that we can use the projected budget surpluses to pay off the i.o.u.'s. Alas, this isn't possible. The surpluses themselves may not materialize. For one thing, an economic downturn could easily turn the surpluses into deficits in just a few years. For another, the budget projections assume, implausibly, that discretionary spending will not grow faster than inflation -- in spite of major new commitments to defense and education.
If the surpluses do materialize, much of the money is likely to be spent. Gluttons don't often turn down a free lunch. Presidential candidates and members of Congress rarely withstand the temptation to give away surpluses by increasing spending or cutting taxes.
There's much talk of putting a "lock box" on the surpluses. But no one has yet designed a lock box that Congress couldn't pick. Even if the lock box works, the money in the trust fund is but a small down payment on future obligations.
Myth No. 2: The New Economy will allow us to grow our way out of the problem. According to this myth, official projections, which point to a gradual slowdown in economic growth, are too pessimistic.
The critics confuse pessimism with arithmetic. Economic growth depends not just on growth in productivity, that is, output per worker, but also on rising numbers of workers. By the 2020's, the labor force will be growing only about one-tenth as fast as in the last quarter century. Given the demographics, it would fly against all logic if economic growth did not slow.
A better question is whether the official projections are too pessimistic about the growth in productivity. But keep in mind that even a huge boost in productivity won't do much to reduce Social Security's burden. According to Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, eliminating Social Security's long-term deficit would require a 200 percent increase in long-term productivity, a leap that few economists, even new economy enthusiasts, believe is possible.
Our leaders face a choice. They can address the question of entitlements for the elderly while the economy is still booming and the budget is in the black, and before most baby boomers retire. Or they can delay until the window of opportunity closes. Either way, America will change course. If we act now, everyone, young and old, will have time to adjust and prepare.
The candidates and the voters must decide what we are willing to sacrifice today to preserve the American dream for our children and grandchildren. As the song goes, "Don't stop thinking about tomorrow."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wes Bedrosian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AGING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); TAX LAW (70%); WORKING MOTHERS (68%); POPULATION SIZE (64%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, PETER G; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) PETE PETERSON (59%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



421 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
A military agency spends billions on seemingly fantastic projects to ensure U.S. battlefield supremacy.

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
FOR more than 40 years, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency has had the daunting assignment of making sure that no enemy -- or, for that matter, any current friend -- has access to tomorrow's technology faster than does the Defense Department.
Darpa, as the agency is known, has parceled out billions of dollars for research projects that can often seem risky, even far-fetched. But the agency assumes that the really disruptive innovations are rarely obvious in their early stages. 
 "Anytime you propose something that's clearly achievable, they say it's not a Darpa problem," said Jon Sherbeck, vice president for engineering at Mdot Aerospace, a Phoenix-based start-up company that won a small-business award from the agency recently for designing a gas turbine the size of a D-cell battery.
Much of what turns out to be feasible never makes it beyond demonstration projects. Military and Congressional politics create some roadblocks and changing military priorities throw up others.
And yet, no other organization has so frequently if unintentionally served as midwife to the technologies of today's information-driven economy. Darpa gave birth to the Internet in the late 1960's. Other projects helped create many of the nation's most impressive computers, the chips used in cellular phones and vital networking technologies like the ability to send simultaneous signals of many wavelengths down a single fiber optic cable.
What's next? Well, as the agency told more than 1,000 engineers and high-technology executives who recently attended a three-day symposium in Dallas that summarized its current agenda, the next decade or two is likely to see extremes in miniaturization like molecule-size computers and six-inch spy planes. Machines, men and, perhaps, other living organisms like insects fitted with sensors will be joined in information networks of bewildering complexity for all sorts of military uses. The torrent of information could make today's network flow seem like a slow trickle.
Breakthroughs in biology and new materials could also create surprising new possibilities. The new materials include amorphous metals that resist corrosion and, unlike normal crystalline metals, become harder under stress.
For a relatively simple example of the agency's perspective, consider one of today's military mainstays, the Abrams tank. These battlefield wonders are more maneuverable and lethal than any other tank in operation. Their ability to accurately aim at enemy objects and fire on the move is unprecedented. With twice the range of Iraq's Russian-designed tanks, they played a major role in NATO's total domination of Iraq's larger army in the Persian Gulf war.
But to the advanced projects agency and some Army officials thinking about combat in the future, such large tanks are probably at an evolutionary dead end. Seen through the lens of the information age, the functions of a tank would be scattered across a combat network. A variety of robotic cannons and missile launchers could deliver the firepower, supplementing their built-in intelligence with help from a distant, manned command center. Smaller, quicker armored vehicles with single, large guns and just one or two crew members might also have a role.
A variety of heat, light and motion sensors on the ground and in the air could be networked to provide a much better picture of fighting conditions. Data would pour in not just from the ground vehicles but from satellites, low-flying miniature aircraft and, perhaps, thousands of pollen-size sensors floating like dust or attached to insects.
With military budgets shrinking and private-sector information technology development growing at an explosive pace, the advanced projects agency is increasingly looking for ways to repackage civilian technology for the military as a cost-effective alternative to sponsoring novel projects. Unfortunately, the networks and information systems the private sector is promoting look disturbingly brittle, threadbare and unsuitable for military purposes.
"B2B and enterprise software are low-hanging fruit technically compared to defense needs," said Shankar Sastry, director of the agency's Information Technology Office, referring to products that allow businesses to interact with each other over the Internet and software that allows many parts of an enterprise from finance to production to marketing to share data.
Darpa studies are looking at how to create and manage networks of up to 100,000 components that must be quickly able to shift how they communicate. Some components may periodically change functions -- a device, for instance, might be monitoring radio signals at one moment and jamming them the next.
Similarly, the agency is financing research on networks of information users. It wants the Defense Department to be able to set up coalitions of up to 100 allies capable of sharing secure information and coordinating logistics within minutes. Just as important, it wants to be able to cut a party off a network instantly and notify all other members.
In both cases, the need for artificial intelligence is obvious. Even if the ability of humans to interact easily with computers were vastly improved by, say, flawless voice recognition software, the amount of information flooding in would be overwhelming. The agency's response includes research on software that can screen widely diverse data sources for relevant trends, automatically reshape networks and write new programs to respond rapidly to emerging needs.
One project partly addressing such concerns is the effort to develop so-called Darpa agent markup language. D.A.M.L., as the language is known in technical circles, would would create a universal format for telling computers what kind of information is in a data source. It would allow Internet search machines to extract data not just from the World Wide Web but from computer programs, sensors and other machines.
The computer language embodies one of the major changes the agency has confronted in adapting to the information age. While much of the agency's work still focuses on technology that it would just as soon see stay in American military hands, there are a growing number of developments that will go nowhere unless they also permeate civilian life.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (51%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MINIATURIZATION; NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (65%); FIBER OPTICS (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (62%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (62%); STARTUPS (54%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



422 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 6; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Moving From New Jersey to the Ivy League, Wryly

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:

JOE COLLEGE
By Tom Perrotta
306 pages. St. Martin's Press. $23.95.
Danny, the appealingly wry and candid hero of Tom Perrotta's new novel, finds himself musing in italics one day about the dreamy typesetters of the Garden State, smelling of sleepy love and the first cigarette of the mad romantic morning. Danny is experiencing a certain aesthetic and economic confusion. A Yale junior with working-class New Jersey origins, he finds himself besotted by Jack Kerouac even as he tends to the mundane details of his father's business, which is visiting offices and factories in a snack-vending vehicle that is nicknamed the Roach Coach. 
 "Wow," says Cindy, the home-town girl who runs into Danny outside the manufacturing plant where she works and is awed by his Ivy League status. "I guess I don't have to count my change."
"You better," Danny tells her. "I'm an English major."
With Joe College as his mocking nickname in the blue-collar world, and with the kinds of Yale friends who argue that deodorant is a needless product foisted on the public by big corporations ("Believe me," says Danny's mother on that point, "no one was ever sorry they put on deodorant,"), Danny vacillates interestingly between two worlds. "It didn't sound right in this context," Danny thinks about one of Bruce Springsteen's New Jersey anthems, "played for the enjoyment of people who were going to end up being the bosses of the people the Boss was singing about." As to where he himself may wind up on this spectrum, that's what this ingratiatingly told story is about.
It takes a sharp eye and a light touch, not to mention a fine memory for embarrassment (this book is set in the early 1980's, and at one point Danny dances a la John Travolta), to take on the back-to-school genre as knowingly as Mr. Perrotta has. His earlier "Election" (a novel several shades less caustic than Alexander Payne's film version) dipped effortlessly into the cauldron of high school political scheming. And his first and still best book, the unassumingly brilliant 1994 short story collection "Bad Haircut," managed to invest offhanded coming-of-age tales with surprisingly deep resonance.
Like Cameron Crowe slipping incognito into Ridgemont High or even Peter Farrelly (yes, of the gross-out Farrellys) affectingly infiltrating prep school in the autobiographical "Outside Providence," Mr. Perrotta shows an uncanny aptitude for stepping right into an academic past. His new book's authenticity is doubtless helped by the facts that he attended Yale just when Danny did and currently teaches writing at Harvard.
"Joe College" tells what happens as Danny works at the Yale cafeteria, hangs around colorfully with his friends ("You ever try to read George Eliot stoned?") and engages in the predictable fling with Cindy, which yields the predictable procreative problem. Meanwhile he soaks up campus atmosphere ("She was the kind of woman you could imagine walking through the streets of revolutionary Iran in her usual attire and not upsetting the ayatollahs") and finds himself falling for the polar opposite of the unsophisticated, overeager Cindy.
Polly Wells is deputy assistant literary editor for poetry at a Yale magazine whose first cover depicts a defecating dog and whose avowed purpose is bringing grit and realism to the students' lives. Polly, who is cuter than this suggests, one day announces that she would like to try painting for the express purpose of wearing paint-spattered jeans. "It wouldn't be fair," Danny tells her. "You're too cool already."
Meanwhile back at the Roach Coach, where Danny fills in for his father during vacation, Staten Island mobsters threaten to impinge on business. They also threaten to compromise the author's storytelling skills. Having sold to the movies not only "Election" but also "The Wishbones," a breezy novel about a band that plays weddings (pace, Adam Sandler), he now shows a dangerous taste for standard plot add-ons like gangsters with snappy nicknames (Vito Meatballs) or the faculty member who is having an affair with Polly. There is also an 11th-hour plagiarism problem to give the story a convenient turning point and save Mr. Perrotta the trouble of digging deeper to find one. And, when it comes to Danny's crisis with Cindy, there's an awfully convenient resolution.
But these are minor failings in an overwhelmingly pleasing book, one that relies for little of its appeal on plot devices anyhow. Mr. Perrotta's strengths are writing quick-witted, engaging talk that draws readers right into Danny's collegiate experience and in pinpointing the nostalgic hallmarks of his Yale years with a gimlet eye.
There are the singing Whiffenpoofs, delivering "a version of 'Help Me, Rhonda' that made the Beach Boys look like a bunch of swinging anarchists by comparison." There is the classmate who is studying the death of President William McKinley and taking a harsh look at his administration, which prompts Danny to worry about his own parents' reaction to such talk. "Was this what they'd scrimped and sacrificed for all those years?" he wonders. "So their son could spend his Tuesday nights drinking beer, smoking dope, eating weird food and learning to see the assassin's side of the story?"
Most valuably for the success of this book, there is Mr. Perrotta's keen, inviting evocation of the process of undergraduate self-discovery. Dressing to go out one night, Danny looks in the mirror and finds that "a powerful sense of wholeness and well-being descended upon me as I pondered my reflection, as if life were an endless costume party, and I'd finally figured out a way to come as myself."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Perrotta (Debi Milligan/St. Martin's Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: JOE COLLEGE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOE COLLEGE (67%); IVY LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IVY LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: MASLIN, JANET; PERROTTA, TOM BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



423 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
A Tale of the Tape From the Days When It Was Still Micro Soft

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
As Microsoft celebrates its 25th anniversary this month, the company is unlikely to call attention to another formative event 25 years ago: the day someone stole Bill Gates's software.
 But the heist, now shrouded in equal parts mystery and industry folklore, gave an early glimpse of the hard-nosed approach Mr. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, has long taken to the software business. And the fierce debate that the theft ignited a quarter-century ago remains relevant today, as the industry engages in a war of words and lawsuits over whether computer software and digital information should be bought and sold or freely shared. 
 Even today, there is disagreement over who actually stole the software. But computer industry lore has it that on June 10, 1975, at a demonstration room set up in a Silicon Valley hotel suite, someone's stealthy hand reached into a cardboard box and removed a long roll of paper tape punched with holes. The tape contained Altair Basic, the programming language for the machine that heralded the birth of the personal computer era.
 Written by William H. Gates and Paul G. Allen, the software, which would soon be renamed Micro Soft Basic, was one of the earliest programs of practical use for the first personal computer aimed at the hobbyist, the MITS Altair. The program had been adapted from the educational programming language invented for mainframe computers by the Dartmouth mathematicians John G. Kemeny and Thomas E. Kurtz. Mr. Gates, who would drop out of Harvard the next year, had rushed to develop the program with a friend from his high school days in Seattle, Mr. Allen, after seeing a picture of the Altair computer on the cover of Popular Electronics magazine.
 The maker, MITS, initially provided no software with the machines, assuming users would be willing not only to assemble them from kits but also to program the devices. It was Mr. Gates and Mr. Allen who exercised the impulse that would eventually make their soon-to-be-founded company, originally named Micro Soft, one of the world's most powerful corporations: create software that put computing power in the hands of everyday people.
Their creation also almost immediately set off an ideological debate among the community of computer hobbyists and hackers: should software be a freely shared utility or a commercial product? The issue created a deep and lasting chasm in the computer world that is spreading to virtually every aspect of today's information economy -- including video games and digitally rendered music and movies. "This set the stage for the debate that continues even today over whether software should be free and how you deal with a technology where copying costs nothing," said Steven Levy, the author of the book "Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution."
Back in 1975, MITS was a company in transition. It had started out as maker of control systems for model rockets, and its original name had been Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems. Now it was trying to promote a new concept -- personal computing -- and the company sent a van known as the MITS-mobile around the country to show off the Altair, using the Gates-Allen software to demonstrate the machine's capabilities.
 While demonstrating the Altair in a packed hotel conference room at Rickeys Hyatt House in Palo Alto, Calif., a MITS employee was having trouble loading the software on the machine, which was performed by pulling a paper tape through a mechanical reader to install a program. Distracted by his efforts, the employee and his audience paid no attention to a nearby box containing copies of the tape.
 Although no one has ever claimed to have seen the thief remove the software, the tape -- or a copy of it -- somehow reached Dan Sokol, a semiconductor engineer at the Silicon Valley chip maker Signetics.
Mr. Sokol was a member of a small band of computer hobbyists who had recently formed the now legendary Homebrew Computer Club, which before it disbanded in 1986 was a seedbed for the personal computer revolution. The club's members founded some of the most influential companies of the first wave of the PC era -- including Cromemco, Processor Technology and Apple Computer. (Despite its historic role, MITS soon ran into financial difficulties and was acquired in May 1977 by Pertec, a maker of computer disk drives and tape drives.)
Mr. Sokol recalls having few qualms about being in possession of a free copy of the Gates-Allen program. In his view, MITS was cheating hobbyists by charging $500 for buggy software. He took the tape to work and used a high-speed paper-tape machine to make 50 copies, which he carried to the next Homebrew meeting a few days later. The principle of sharing software was already a tenet for many members of the Homebrew club. Several members, for example, had collaborated on their own program for the Altair, called Tiny Basic, which they gave to anyone who wanted it.
 "This was something we were doing for the community, and anybody who added to it was welcomed," recalled Dennis Allison, a microprocessor designer who was a co-author of Tiny Basic and who founded Dr. Dobbs, an early programmer's journal.
 Lee Felsenstein, a Silicon Valley computer designer who became the club's first moderator, established a system in which rolls of paper tape were donated by placing them on a skewer-like pointer.
 "I would say, 'Remember to bring back more copies than you take,' " Mr. Felsenstein recalled.
 The meeting to which Mr. Sokol brought copies of the stolen tape was held at a auditorium at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, adjacent to the Stanford University campus. When the session ended, dozens of computer hackers rushed to the front of the room to claim copies of Altair Basic.
 "I told the people who had a computer they could be first in line and the people who had just ordered one had to stand behind them," Mr. Sokol recalled in a recent phone interview.
 Months later, when Mr. Gates learned that his software was being widely shared by computer hobbyists, he sent an angry letter to several PC newsletters and magazines, accusing the hobbyists of piracy.
 "As the majority of hobbyists must be aware, most of you steal your software," Mr. Gates wrote, employing sarcasm: "Hardware must be paid for, but software is something to share. Who cares if the people who worked on it get paid?"
Some in the club embraced Mr. Sokol's opinion that the Gates-Allen program was not worth the price being charged. Others contended that any price at all was unreasonable to ask for the intangible 1's and 0's that animate digital computers.
 Despite the free-software hacker ethic, however, some Homebrew members found themselves in an uncomfortable position as they realized that, like it or not, software was emerging as a business.
 "I wanted the Homebrew club not to be known for distributing illicit copies," recalled Gordon French, a co-founder, who was the club's librarian. "But I was a voice of moderation, and despite my protestations I never refused to give away copies."
If anything, the issues raised by the hobbyists' dispute with the young Bill Gates, are even more contentious in today's digital world. Legal wars are raging over the creation of Internet file sharing software, like Napster, that make it possible to share virtual any digital information -- whether it is music, video or software code -- without regard to copyrights.
 And the original hackers' impulse to share their work has endured in the so-called open source software movement, which has created free software like the Gnu programming tools and the Linux operating system -- the software that open-source enthusiasts see as the antidote to Microsoft's Windows.
 Something else has endured: the original mystery of who stole the tape at Rickeys Hyatt House. To this day no one has stepped forward to claim credit. Two histories of the personal computer, Mr. Levy's "Hackers" and "Gates: How Microsoft's Mogul Reinvented an Industry -- and Made Himself the Richest Man in America," by Paul Andrews and Stephen Manes, refer to the incident, but neither names a culprit.
And Mr. Sokol still refuses to identify who gave him the tape. "I made a promise 25 years ago that I would not tell who did give me the tape," he said, "and I'm going to hold to it."
One early computer hacker, Steve Dompier, whose name often arises when the old-timers speculate on the matter, has steadfastly insisted he is innocent.
Mr. Dompier, who in 1975 was a a 30-year-old carpenter in Berkeley and the hobbyist credited with having assembled the first working MITS Altair from a kit, does acknowledge being present in the demonstration room.
 "I know a lot of people think I stole it, but I didn't," he said during an interview at his home in Bigfork, Mont. "I had gotten a copy from Bill earlier." In fact, Mr. Dompier has saved a copy of a handwritten letter from Mr. Gates at about that same time, thanking him for helping find and fix bugs in the program.
David Bunnell, who was an early employee of MITS and is now publisher of the Silicon Valley magazine Upside, says the mystery may never be solved. "Nobody really knows who did it," said Mr. Bunnell.
In fact, Mr. Bunnell is not even convinced that it was the stolen copy that ended up in Mr. Sokol's hands. "Anyone who had bought a copy could have given it to him."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A letter from William H. Gates to Steve Dompier, an early computer hobbyist. (Karen Nichols for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Steve Dompier, right, denies taking a copy of Altair Basic in 1975. Micro Soft, as it was then called, was founded by William H. Gates, bottom left, and Paul Allen, bottom right. (Karen Nichols for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); UXC (ASX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS561990 ALL OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES (85%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (85%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (85%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); UXC LTD (85%); MICRO SOFT (64%); HOMEBREW COMPUTER CLUB (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP MICRO SOFT (64%); HOMEBREW COMPUTER CLUB (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); ROBBERY (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); FOLKLORE (72%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); WRITERS (66%); MATHEMATICS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (56%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; GATES, BILL (WILLIAM H); ALLEN, PAUL BILL GATES (93%); PAUL ALLEN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



424 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

AT&T to Consider Strategy At Annual Board Retreat
As AT&T's board prepares for its annual retreat, where many of the company's most important decisions have taken shape in recent years, the participants will most likely be discussing options meant to underline the value of the company's relatively strong operations, like its cable unit, while quarantining the performance of the relative laggards, like consumer long-distance.
Analysts and investors have also wondered about more exotic possibilities, like a full or partial merger of AT&T and British Telecommunications, as the company seeks ways to bolster a stock that closed at $32.25 last week, compared with more than $60 at one point last spring. Market Place. C2.
 
Athletes' Fund Raises $150 Million
Champion Ventures, the investment fund for professional athletes started by two former San Francisco 49ers, has finished its second round of financing in as many years, raising $150 million. That is a considerable sum given that last year Ronnie Lott, left, who founded Champion with Harris Barton, raised $40 million from football stars like Keyshawn Johnson and hockey players like Wayne Gretzky. Champion invests money in the funds of some of the most prestigious venture capitalists, including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Accel Partners. C9. 

Military Agency's Technology Payoff
For more than 40 years, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency has parceled out billions of dollars for research projects, and no other organization has so frequently if unintentionally served as midwife to the technologies of today's information-driven economy. At a recent symposium, the agency said the next decade or two was likely to bring extremes in miniaturization like molecule-size computers and six-inch spy planes. New Economy. C4.
 
Sites Turn to Auditors on Privacy
One of the more imposing tasks for Internet companies has been breaking through the wall of mistrust that separates them from millions of would-be shoppers who fret about online privacy. Some companies are now paying well-known financial services firms to audit their Web sites and state whether their privacy policies are more than just pixels on the screen. In doing so, analysts and privacy advocates said, these Web sites are putting pressure on other e-commerce companies to follow suit. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C12.
 
Bloomberg Television in Cable Deal
Bloomberg Television will announce a distribution deal today with Time Warner Cable that could eventually more than double the number of households its cable television channel reaches in the United States. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. C17.
 
Crime Reporter Is Shot in Canada
The day after Le Journal de Montreal published a report by Michel Auger, regarded as the best-informed reporter on Montreal's underworld, on the latest killings in a turf war between two drug gangs, the Hell's Angels and the Rock Machine, an assailant shot Mr. Auger five time in the back. Mr. Auger survived but is in serious condition. Advocates for the news media noted that while physical attacks on reporters in North America are rare, attacks by criminals on journalists are on the rise worldwide. C15.
 
Microsoft Loses a Key Strategist
With the retirement last week of Paul Maritz, who oversaw Microsoft's rise to operating system supremacy, the company lost a field general from the company's bitter computer wars of the 1990's. C12.
 
Joint Bid Considered for Liquor Unit
Allied Domecq, the British beverage conglomerate, has discussed joining with Vin and Sprit, the Swedish company that owns Absolut vodka, to bid for Seagram's liquor business. Allied's main competitor, Diageo is already teaming up with Pernod Ricard of France to bid for the business. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 10,927.06 down 293.59
Nasdaq composite -- 3,835.23 down 143.18
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.90% up 0.20
The euro -- $0.8563 down 0.0125
The dollar -- 107.35 yen up 1.14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); TWC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (87%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (87%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); TELECOM AS (71%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (67%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (87%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (87%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (85%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); EQUITY FINANCING (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (68%); SPORTS (68%); INTERNET PRIVACY (67%); AUDITS (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (63%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (63%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); GANGS (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); 

PERSON: WAYNE GRETZKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



425 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Old Ties to Serbia Still Bind Many in Montenegro

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: KOLASIN, Montenegro

 BODY:
Here in the stirring, ragged mountains of northern Montenegro, the Yugoslav Army patrols from the Breza barracks on one side of town, while the Montenegrin special police, dressed in army fatigues and carrying automatic weapons, roam from their barracks in a resort hotel, the Bjelasica, that once catered to skiers.
They follow each other on the narrow roads with Balkan braggadocio, but neither side appears eager to fight. "We keep an eye on each other," said one policeman. "But everyone's tired of blood." Fatigue may be an insufficient tourniquet, however. 
Tiny Montenegro is the last remaining republic with Serbia in what is left of Yugoslavia, but under President Milo Djukanovic it is moving gingerly toward independence. Mr. Djukanovic has decided to boycott the elections called for Sept. 24 by the Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, who changed the Constitution to win another term.
Here in Kolasin, a stronghold of pro-Yugoslav feeling, Montenegrins will go to vote anyway, casting their ballots for unity. Mr. Djukanovic, who broke away from Mr. Milosevic in 1997 and split Montenegro's governing party, is regarded as a traitor to centuries of Montenegrin-Serbian brotherhood. Mr. Milosevic's brother, Borislav, now the Yugoslav ambassador in Moscow, was born here, and their father is buried nearby; President Milosevic is not just a native son, but a fixture in the cosmos.
"Until Milosevic dies he will be president of Yugoslavia," Dragomir Bulatovic said with fervor. "It wouldn't be Yugoslavia unless Milosevic were president. We'd be like San Marino and controlled by the United States."
His friend, Milan Bulatovic, concurred. "What Milosevic accomplished last year in Serbia, rebuilding the country, couldn't be done anywhere else in the world," he said. "Here, Djukanovic just wants to sell the country to foreigners."
Major complaints here center on Mr. Djukanovic's management of the economy: dumping the Yugoslav dinar for the German mark, closing former state-owned enterprises, like a wood factory and a department store, swapping the management of another firm and laying off most of its workers, albeit -- for the moment -- at 70 percent of their pay.
Along the chilly streets of low wooden houses and crumbling, angular public buildings constructed in the modernist-socialist style, skeptical citizens emerged from coffee houses to interrogate a foreigner, riled by the presence of an American whose government bombed Yugoslavia last year.
"You killed our children!" one man shouted, but Drasko Popovic told him to calm down, then apologized. This is a pro-Milosevic town, he said, run by the pro-Milosevic Socialist People's Party of Momir Bulatovic, and most people in this part of Montenegro, closest to Serbia, will vote in the elections.
Most of the 5,000 people in town, and some 9,000 more in surrounding villages, want to stay united with Serbia, Mr. Popovic said. "We don't like those people who are trying to push us apart to make money for themselves."
About 35 percent to 40 percent of Montenegro's 650,000 people support the union with Serbia, too large a minority for Mr. Djukanovic to ignore or idly antagonize. There are fears in the capital, Podgorica, that Mr. Milosevic will manipulate pro-Serbian feelings in this region and use the army -- and a special paramilitary grouping called the Seventh Battalion, some of whose members are also billeted here -- to foment what could look like a civil war.
Mr. Popovic was chatting with his friend, Branko Kukovic, who has just published a book of patriotic poems about Serbs in Montenegro and Herzegovina called "The Guardians of Freedom." The book's preface is some 15 pages of intricate historical data about the undying bond between Serbia and Montenegro.
Some of Mr. Djukanovic's special police sped up in their new white Land Rovers and then slammed on the brakes. "The police are Milo's army, and he's doing what the Croats and the others did before they broke away," said Mr. Kukovic. "But here it just helps Milosevic with the Serbs who support his cause. It makes people angry."
Mr. Kukovic seemed especially agitated that the Montenegrin authorities were even splitting the Serbian Orthodox Church, setting up a Montenegrin Orthodox Church, and he said that would be the subject of his next book.
But he is not a pessimist. "We'll find enough clever people not to have a civil war," he said.
Still, attitudes are not uniform. In a dark little coffee shop, Djuro Bojic, 18, sported a sweatshirt that read: "Montenegro Independent."
Kolasin is a center of pro-Milosevic feeling, he said, "but some people are changing their minds -- they begin to think that Milosevic may be finished." This election "is very, very touchy," he said, and there is little affection for Mr. Milosevic's main challenger, the Serbian opposition candidate, Vojislav Kostunica.
"This town is very, very tense," Mr. Bojic said. "People get drunk, and there are a lot of fights over political issues. It's so stupid, but it's very, very deep. I know examples of fathers sending sons away, because the son was for Milo and he was for Momir," referring to Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Bulatovic, as usual in Montenegro, by their first names.
Yugoslav soldiers act like bullies, he said. "They're pushing hard," he added. The Seventh Battalion, he said, is hot-tempered and recently broke up a friendly soccer match in nearby Bijelo Polje by taking out guns and shooting in the air.
Mr. Bojic is no great fan of Mr. Djukanovic, favoring instead a smaller pro-independence party. But in the elections, he will be rooting for Mr. Milosevic. "I never supported him more," Mr. Bojic said, grinning widely. "Because if Milosevic wins, we'll definitely have independence here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A man in Podgorica, Montenegro, walks by a poster urging a boycott of Yugoslavia's coming elections, in which Slobodan Milosevic is running. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Montenegro highlighting location of Kolasin: Most Montenegrins in Kolasin remain loyal to Slobodan Milosovic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (54%); 

COMPANY: YUGOSLAV ARMY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV ARMY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTENEGRO; SERBIA; MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (54%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION ELECTIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); SKIING (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); LAYOFFS (66%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (63%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (61%); BOYCOTTS (54%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; DJUKANOVIC, MILO (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



426 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Frustration Grows With Cost of Health Insurance

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Sept. 16

 BODY:
Eddie Williams, 30 years old, counts himself lucky to have a good job, making $17 an hour as a deliveryman for the Bowman Oil and Propane Company. He and his wife are careful about their budget, and so have been able to sock away some savings for their daughter, Tianna, 6, and their son, Kendan, 4. They were able to vacation in Southern California this summer and visit relatives in Nevada.
But all their planning got a jolt a few weeks ago, when health insurance premiums for the two children abruptly shot up by 40 percent -- to $350 a month from $250. 
 "Of course you ask yourself why," Mr. Williams said. "You even wonder whether it's worth it to pay all that. The children are healthy. Seems like they've only gone to the doctor twice this year, both times for shots, which weren't even covered by the insurance. But these are my kids we're talking about here. You never know what might happen. So we pay it. I wouldn't dream of them being without insurance."
With health insurance premiums across the country rising by 10 percent and in some cases much more in recent months, millions of people like Mr. Williams, and often their employers as well, are grappling with a soaring expense that stands in odd and vexing contrast to many other items in their budgets. Even as consumer prices actually fell over all last month for the first time in 14 years, according to a federal report issued Friday that said the decline was largely attributable to a drop in gasoline prices, health care costs are on a seemingly relentless rise.
And for workers, managers and the owner at Bowman Oil and Propane, such higher premiums produce strikingly similar cries of frustration. They all wonder why the increases are so large and express puzzlement and anger at the economic forces driving them. They say the larger premiums, which insurers say are caused by the rising costs of prescription drugs, and more generally by the escalating demands for medical services, are playing havoc with their budgets.
Here at Bowman, the owner and president, Bob Bowman, recently instructed the general manager, Dan Knelleken, to hold off on wage increases until at least January, when the company faces another possible increase in the premiums it pays for its employees. Actually, as far as Mr. Bowman and Mr. Knelleken are concerned, employees already received something of a wage increase, when the company absorbed a 10 percent rise in premiums over the summer.
"I told people here at the time -- you're getting a dollar-an-hour raise, whether you see it in your paycheck or not," Mr. Knelleken recalled.
And both he and Mr. Bowman described the expense of increased premiums as coming "straight off the bottom line," since it was not passed on in the form of higher prices for the company's heating oil and propane customers.
Bowman is one small company, with about a dozen full-time employees and an additional 20 or so seasonal workers in the winter, when demand for heating oil is highest. But the problems it faces managing health care costs are typical of those faced by thousands of small businesses across the country, which in turn have produced a chorus of fury and stoked a major issue in the presidential and Congressional campaigns this year. Both parties have proposed major plans aimed at controlling health care costs, and especially at bringing down the prices that consumers pay for prescription drugs.
Health insurance costs are so high that more than 40 million people across the country have no insurance at all, which is also a major campaign issue.
But many workers continue struggling to afford the premiums. People like Mr. Williams contend with rising premiums for their dependent children, which are often largely the responsibility of the employee, and often worry about the burdens on elderly parents as well. Mr. Williams's mother faces payments of $450 every three months for a battery of prescription drugs for a heart problem. And employers like Mr. Bowman seem to feel equally trapped, describing health insurance as a benefit they must provide to find and keep good workers in the strong economy, but one whose costs they feel powerless to control.
Bowman is part of a "purchasing pool" of about 350 local companies here that is administered by the Tacoma-Pierce County Chamber of Commerce, whose president and chief executive, David Graybill, said premiums had risen by an average of about 20 percent this year.
The companies have some ability to pick and choose among large insurers but, as Mr. Graybill put it in an interview: "When the higher premiums come in, there's an immediate disbelief. But then they start shopping around, and they find that kind of increase is more the norm across the board."
And while in some cases small companies have contained costs by cutting back on benefits or passing premium increases to the employees, many employers like Mr. Bowman said they felt they had little choice but to absorb much of the cost, leaving them sounding just as angry as individual consumers.
"The gigantic companies have this attitude of 'take it or leave it,' " explained Mr. Bowman, a bald, jovial man, dressed for work the other day in khakis and a Hawaiian shirt. "It's the same thing we see with Arco, or U S West," he added, referring to the oil giant and the regional telephone company. "They have the upper hand. They say, this is the price to pay. Medicine and health care are no different these days."
Individual workers at Bowman, like Mr. Williams, the driver here, feel no different. Mr. Williams himself is insured through the plan at Bowman, which costs the company an average of $201.01 per worker a month, $30 of which is paid by the employee through a payroll deduction. The employees can also pay to cover a spouse, for $230.65 a month, and children, for $105.75 per child.
After careful consideration of the benefits offered by the Bowman plan and the one used by the Seattle crane company where his wife is an administrator, the Williamses insured the children through her plan, which was about $40 a month more but had lower co-payments and other advantages. But that is the plan that shot up $100 a month.
"It just seems like an unbelievable amount of money," Mr. Williams said. "I mean, you could practically rent a doctor's office yourself for that kind of money."
David Holden, 40, a driver with the company for 10 years and a single parent, also pays the premiums for his two children, but worries about the next increase.
"These aren't cost-of-living-type increases," Mr. Holden said. "When something shoots up 20, 30 percent, it's way beyond that." Like Mr. Williams, Mr. Holden believes he is paid well, and with time-and-a-half for overtime, his financial picture is solid. If the premiums soar again, he said: "We'd start cutting back on nonessential things, movies, recreational activities. But I worry about where we'd start cutting after that."
Here at Bowman, where the company motto -- "Always There. Always Fair." -- is emblazoned on trucks and tanks, the people who run the place are no less pained by the cost of insurance.
"Years ago, we tried a program where we were able to carry the dependents," Mr. Knelleken said in an interview at the company headquarters, a small building in Tacoma's gritty industrial area with a spectacular and unobstructed view of Mount Rainier.
"Now we can't do that," Mr. Knelleken added. "We looked at it again last year. We thought, 'It would really be great to do this.' But the numbers were just too astronomical."
Bowman intends to keep offering insurance, but not all small companies feel that way. A national survey of small businesses released this month by the National Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and the Employee Benefits Research Institute found that one in seven companies with fewer than 100 employees said they would drop health insurance if premiums increased by 10 percent, and 46 percent said they would change their coverage, presumably to policies that are less expensive but also less comprehensive.
Here in Tacoma, Mr. Graybill, at the chamber of commerce, said that he hears complaints all the time about rising premiums, but that most companies seemed intent on maintaining coverage for their employees, at least for now.
"It helps that the economy is very good," he said. "I think we'd hear real screaming if this was coming in a time when the economy was extremely sour."
Some drivers work only in the winter months for Bowman, when the company reaches peak demand from its 12,000 heating oil customers, spread over five counties. They are covered for insurance during the months they work, then have to decide whether to pay for the plan themselves in the other months. Some, especially those without children, simply take their chances and let their insurance lapse in the off months.
"I've had drivers just drop the insurance," said Robin Bowman, the company's accounting department supervisor and a daughter of Mr. Bowman, the owner. "I say, what do you mean you're going to drop it? They say they can't afford to have it. And in the back of my mind, I'm worrying and thinking, how can you afford not to have it?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Williams, a deliveryman in Tacoma, Wash., worries about the cost of health insurance for his family. (Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (86%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: BOWMAN OIL & PROPANE; BOWMAN OIL & PROPANE CO BOWMAN OIL&PROPANE CO (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOWMAN OIL & PROPANE; BOWMAN OIL & PROPANE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (86%); TACOMA, WA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); ARCHERY (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PROPANE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INSURANCE (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); DRUG PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



427 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The Gore Ticket And Big Business

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Jerry J. Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, is unsure why Al Gore and Joseph I. Lieberman have suddenly identified big business as "the enemy" (Op-Ed, Sept. 13). Let me offer an explanation. 
 In previous campaigns, politicians had Iraq, Iran, China and the Soviet Union to point to as a great threat to Western civilization. These enemies are no longer credible, leaving a vacuum to be filled.
So why not big business? Like our former foes, it seems mysterious, powerful, uncontrollable and abstract enough to absorb criticism. Moreover, there are not many who will rise to defend the likes of I.B.M., Microsoft and General Motors.
Such criticism is nothing new for Mr. Gore. What is most sad is to hear similar pronouncements from Mr. Lieberman. As a senator he has been strongly in favor of economic incentives that have benefited businesses large and small, their employees and customers. Now that his aspirations have risen, he has changed his tune.
 
MARTIN H. ARNOLD
Trumbull, Conn., Sept. 13, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, MARTIN H; JASINOWSKI, JERRY J; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) AL GORE (91%); JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



428 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: The Gore Ticket And Big Business

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Jerry J. Jasinowski ("Gore's War on Business," Op-Ed, Sept. 13) seems to confuse the meaning of "business" with that of "corporations." I have seen no evidence that Mr. Gore believes that "business is the enemy." Rather, he has attacked companies that take advantage of oil shortages, corporations that pollute and pharmaceutical makers that find it easier to raise prices in this country than in Canada. 
 As a Republican and a businessman, I find it distressing to see a spokesman for our manufacturing base describe Mr. Gore's compassion for the less fortunate as "newfound angry populism." People who deny or criticize all criticism of corporations are themselves the biggest danger that American business faces.
 
GEORGE A. YOUNG
Bronxville, N.Y., Sept. 13, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, GEORGE A; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); JASINOWSKI, JERRY J AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



429 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Campaign Turns Attention To Middle Class

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Sept. 17

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush said today that he was determined to convince middle-income voters that they would fare better under his proposals than under Vice President Al Gore's, and he vowed to spend the coming days making that case as emphatically as possible.
"One of the big differences is that I want people controlling their lives," Mr. Bush said in a telephone interview that hewed to a theme he is working more and more aggressively: that Mr. Gore is bent on inflexible, federally mandated solutions. 
 Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, sought to draw attention to a new campaign document, "Blueprint for the Middle Class," which his aides released today. Essentially a 16-page, oversize pamphlet, it will be handed out at campaign events this week, and it distills his proposals for voters that Mr. Gore, with his constant references to "working families," has courted both assiduously and successfully.
Mr. Bush said the document was intended to put his agenda "in a form where everybody can understand and people can see in specific what I have to offer."
But the document and today's interview had additional, more specific purposes, advisers to Mr. Bush said.
Tagged by Mr. Gore as a candidate on the side of big corporations and wealthy Americans, Mr. Bush was asserting that his policies would benefit all voters more than Mr. Gore's proposals would.
Advisers said the phrase "middle class" in the document's title signaled that goal. The language also reflected opinion polls that showed some of Mr. Gore's most significant gains in the past month had been with voters in households earning $50,000 to $75,000 a year.
After the Democratic convention, at which Mr. Gore pointedly cast the race as a contest between "the people," whom he pledged to champion, and "the powerful," whom he said Mr. Bush represented, Mr. Bush's advisers made several adjustments.
A week and a half ago, they rolled out a new slogan, "real plans for real people," a phrase that appeared in large print on the cover of the "Blueprint for the Middle Class."
Today, Mr. Bush sought to draw attention to this new emphasis in interviews with a few reporters. The interviews were initiated by the campaign, the first time it had had Mr. Bush contact reporters to talk about his coming days of campaigning.
Republican strategists said Mr. Bush was clearly trying to project a take-charge image and wrest control of the debate.
"One of the ways you regain momentum," said a Republican strategist who occasionally advises the campaign, "is to make clear that you're trying to regain momentum."
Along those lines, Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, held a conference call with reporters to spell out the scope of the next six days.
Mr. Fleischer said Mr. Bush would travel 6,076 miles from Monday to Saturday, visiting 12 cities in nine states that represented 160 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win.
The Gore campaign responded to the document by accusing Mr. Bush of misleading voters with selective information.
In what Mr. Gore's aides titled "A Tale of the Tape," they noted that Mr. Bush's document was 2,644 words and had six pictures, while Mr. Gore's "Prosperity for America's Families," an economic plan he unveiled earlier this month, had 69,042 words and no pictures.
But Mr. Bush's aides said the document compressed information from a previously released, 457-page paperback book of speeches and policy prescriptions.
The release of the document, which did not include any new proposals, followed a speech on Saturday in which Mr. Bush attacked Mr. Gore's proposals in sharper language than ever before.
Both developments underscored a shift in the Bush campaign, which is now focusing more intensely on the differences in the candidate's plans on Medicare, Social Security, tax cuts and education.
"I'm going to make this a contest on policy," Mr. Bush said.
He said the race had reached a point where people were paying closer attention and needed to be reminded of where he stood, especially in comparison to Mr. Gore.
"One of the things about a campaign I've learned is timing is important," Mr. Bush said. "When I give one speech, it doesn't necessarily soak in, so I'm going to continue to talk about what I intend to do and where we differ."
Other comments he made suggested that the campaign had been prepared in the last seven weeks to try an array of approaches. He did not rule out making further attacks on Mr. Gore's ethics or character like the one in a television commercial several weeks ago that portrayed Mr. Gore as dishonest and politically inconsistent.
Mr. Bush said he and his campaign would "have to make those calls" as the race proceeded. Asked whether his pledge to "change the tone" of politics would hurt his ability to raise questions about Mr. Gore's character, he said there was a difference between what a candidate might need to do in a campaign and how a candidate intends to govern.
And he said he would govern in a more bipartisan, less acrimonious spirit than President Clinton and Mr. Gore had. That was another argument for his candidacy that he said he would be stressing.
Mr. Bush said he wanted "to remind people that I will be a different type of leader, something that hasn't been the case in the last eight years, something that will not be the case if the vice president becomes president."
Advisers said today that the document was intended to appeal to voters in households that make $30,000 to $60,000 a year. According to a New York Times/CBS News Poll released last week, Mr. Bush still led Mr. Gore among voters in households in the $30,000 to $50,000 range, but now trailed among voters in households in the $50,000 to $75,000 range.
One Bush adviser said today that middle-income voters in both groups cared deeply about whether their problems and aspirations were understood by candidates, and the adviser noted that Mr. Gore came out better in this regard.
The adviser said Mr. Bush also needed to reverse the loss of support among women.
"I think what will help tremendously is if they hear him talking about their concerns," the adviser said, adding that what women and middle-income voters want "more than anything is somebody who has empathy and understanding of where they are in their lives."
Karl Rove, the chief strategist for the Bush campaign, described these voters as "very practical."
"They want to know: what are you going to do for them, and how does it differ from the other guy," Mr. Rove said. That approach will be reflected in events this week, which will trace life, from birth to old age, and talk about how Mr. Bush's proposals take into account people at each stage.
On Monday Mr. Bush will visit a maternity ward in Little Rock, Ark., to talk about his proposal to double the per-child tax credit to $1,000 from $500. On Tuesday, Mr. Bush will visit an elementary school in Chicago to talk about school safety.
Mr. Bush said he was confident about his approach and about the race, which he said was "neck and neck."
"I'm running against an incumbent," he said. "The fact that this race is close I find very heartening." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); FAMILY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRUNI, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



430 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Lazio Ad Focuses on Tax Plan

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:

Representative Rick A. Lazio's Senate campaign has begun broadcasting this 30-second ad.
 
TITLE -- "Plan"
 
PRODUCER -- Murphy Pintak Gautier Hudome Agency 

ON THE SCREEN -- This spot focuses on Mr. Lazio's tax plan, which he has promoted as a major distinction between him and Hillary Rodham Clinton, but which he has also tried to present as less drastic than George W. Bush's proposed $1.3 trillion tax cut. The ad opens with Mr. Lazio picking up one of his daughters on the beach, the lead-in to a rather run-of-the-mill montage of Mr. Lazio speaking, talking to voters, marching in a parade and shaking an elderly woman's hand. In contrast to other recent Lazio ads, Mrs. Clinton is neither pictured nor mentioned by name.
 
THE SCRIPT -- "Rick Lazio: He's one of us. Unlike his opponent, Lazio offers a plan for job creation, not just a promise. Tax cuts on investment to create jobs. Tax credits to help families pay for college. No more marriage penalty. And the Lazio plan ends double taxation by letting you deduct your payroll taxes off your tax return. Lazio still reserves more than 75 percent of the surplus to protect Social Security and Medicare. Rick Lazio: Trust him to fight for you."
 
ACCURACY -- Mrs. Clinton's tax plan includes tax cuts that would encourage small businesses to create jobs, and her economic plan for upstate New York is also intended to create jobs by attracting high-tech industries. Mr. Lazio's tax plan has been criticized by several independent experts, who say that his projections differ significantly from Congressional estimates and that the plan's real cost may be more than $1 trillion.
 
SCORECARD -- The ad banks on the long-held Republican belief that broad tax cuts appeal to voters. The "one of us" line is a dig at Mrs. Clinton's status as a newcomer to New York. Although earlier ads have cautioned, "Clinton? You just can't trust her," this one sounds the same theme on a more positive note. SHAILA K. DEWAN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); MARRIAGE (66%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



431 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: UNCERTAIN TIMING FOR PERU ELECTION GIVES U.S. CONCERN

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The sudden decision by Peru's president, Alberto K. Fujimori, to call new elections and not run in them himself took the United States and all of Latin America by surprise, officials said today. While welcoming the move, they expressed concern that Peru might face a period of unrest and voiced uncertainty about what role its influential army might play.
In his decade in office Mr. Fujimori has served Washington as a useful ally in its war against drugs. But he became tangled in a mounting corruption scandal and, since his disputed re-election in May to a third five-year term, had faced increasing pressure from the United States and the Organization of American States to enact democratic reforms. 
 While he said in his dramatic television broadcast on Saturday night that he would call new elections immediately, he did not specify when they would be held. It was likely that elections would take six months to organize and that Mr. Fujimori would remain president until then, the secretary general of the O.A.S., Cesar Gaviria, said today.
In the 24 hours after the president's announcement, the army -- which ruled Peru between 1968 and 1980 -- showed no signs of moving against Mr. Fujimori. There were also no statements from the powerful intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, whose agency Mr. Fujimori said he was "deactivating."
The future of Mr. Montesinos, a shadowy figure who has been Mr. Fujimori's right-hand man, had begun to appear in doubt after he was shown on a tape on television last week apparently bribing an opposition party member to switch to the president's party. Some senior army officers are believed to be on the side of the intelligence chief. He is in Lima and under investigation, though he has not been detained, The Associated Press reported.
The Organization of American States demanded on Saturday that Mr. Fujimori fire Mr. Montesinos. In his startling appearance just hours later, Mr. Fujimori said he hoped that the new election would satisfy the international community.
Mr. Fujimori won his new term in a runoff election that was boycotted by the opposition candidate, Alejandro Toledo, and condemned internationally as flawed. Of all the American nations, the United States was most vociferous in criticizing the election. Since then, it had seemed more or less reconciled to Mr. Fujimori's continuing in power.
Thousands of people poured onto the streets of Lima in jubilation early today to celebrate Mr. Fujimori's promised departure from office, which stunned a country more accustomed to the president clinging tenaciously to power. Mr. Fujimori met later today with his cabinet, but issued no public statements.
Mr. Fujimori's decision to step down appears to have been sparked by the public airing of the embarrassing tape, whose origin remains a mystery. Mr. Montesinos rarely appears in public, and Peruvians and foreign observers were baffled that a tape apparently made in his office could have leaked out and been broadcast on television.
Mr. Toledo, an economist who mounted a surprisingly strong challenge to Mr. Fujimori before pulling out of the runoff on charges that it was rigged, echoed the Clinton administration's surprise at the president's move. He said today that he hoped to run in the new elections. On Saturday, he was in Washington for talks with officials of the Organization of American States.
"I'm surprised by how in the end everything was so quick," Mr. Toledo told the Reuters news agency in an interview in Miami before boarding a plane back to Peru tonight. "But what is true is that this was a government that was rotten to the core, and many factors came together to finally bring it down."
He said he would try to rally the splintered opposition for the elections. But he also questioned whether Mr. Fujimori's decision would stick. On Saturday night, the Peruvian leader said he did not want to be an obstruction in efforts to strengthen democracy or to be a "brake on the process of economic recovery."
Mr. Toledo said today, "I doubt Fujimori will keep his word."
The Organization of American States applauded Mr. Fujimori for stepping aside, and praised opposition leaders in a statement tonight for not exploiting the volatile situation.
In heralding Mr. Fujimori's action, a White House spokesman, Jake Siewert, said, "It is clear that the people in Peru want full democracy, and we hope that all elements in Peru will support this process."
A State Department spokesman, Philip T. Reeker, said Mr. Fujimori had taken a praiseworthy "bold step" and noted that it came little more than a week after Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met with him at the United Nations summit meeting in New York City.
In that meeting, Dr. Albright urged Mr. Fujimori to clean up his intelligence structure, which has been at the forefront of the destruction of a democratic judiciary, press and electoral system in Peru, a State Department official said.
As United States pressure on Mr. Fujimori increased, it was made clear that Peru might face some kind of sanctions, a senior administration official said today.
"We said we would not have a regular bilateral relationship, and we heard from Lima that he was stung by this," the official said. "We got a step that gets us way beyond where we expected to be."
But the official added, "We need to manage the next few days with the military respecting his decision."
In another indication of the mounting United States pressure on Mr. Fujimori, the usually reticent American ambassador to Peru, John Hamilton, spoke out after the tape showing Mr. Montesinos was aired, saying the Peruvian leader should "take clear measures to restore the faith of the Peruvian people." Mr. Hamilton called the situation "deeply grave."
Mr. Gaviria, the head of the Organization of American States, said in a telephone interview from Bogota, Colombia, that he had been informed today by his mission in Lima that it could take six months to organize the new elections.
He said that the government and the opposition would have to work together to devise the elections and that they "may be thinking of changing the rules."
Mr. Fujimori, 62, is currently the longest-serving elected leader in Latin America. But his inauguration in July was accompanied by riots, arson, the deaths of six people and the arrests of 172.
In the interview today, Mr. Gaviria said the crucial problem in Peru was the intelligence chief, Mr. Montesinos. "Everyone felt threatened by him," Mr. Gaviria said. "It's difficult to know how Mr. Fujimori thinks, but his action proves that he believes Mr. Montesinos was involved in criminal activity."
He said the Organization of American States mission, as well as working on the elections, would try to work with the government and the opposition to carry out a list of 29 reforms demanded by the organization in June. They included restoring members of the constitutional tribunal who were dismissed last year, he said.
For years, the Clinton administration had shown considerable reluctance about criticizing Mr. Montesinos, even as the intelligence chief became increasingly unpopular.
In recent weeks, Mr. Montesinos appeared to be becoming more of a liability than a strength. He was recently implicated by opposition leaders in a military deal involving the sale of 10,000 Russian assault rifles by the Peruvian military to a rebel group in Colombia.
Mr. Fujimori and Mr. Montesinos had announced that the rifles got to the Colombian group through the Jordanian government, which had sold the rifles to Peru.
But the Clinton administration backed the Jordanian government in its statements that it had legally sold the rifles to Peru and had nothing to do with their transfer to the Colombian rebels.
Mr. Fujimori came to power 10 years ago as the ultimate outsider prepared to take on terrorists, including the Shining Path group, self-described Maoists who had disrupted Peru in the 1980's. He was looked upon favorably by Washington because of his successful programs in cutting back poppy production.
A son of Japanese immigrants who belonged to no party and promised a clean break with the past, Mr. Fujimori disbanded the Supreme Court and Congress in 1992. In 1995, he won re-election in a landslide, an affirmation of his authoritarian ways.
But in the end, his close alliance with Mr. Montesinos appears to have led to his decision to step aside.
Opposition leaders have said they believe that the intelligence chief may have incriminating evidence on Mr. Fujimori himself. Another theory circulating in Lima tonight was that Mr. Fujimori had decided to try to fire Mr. Montesinos, but that the move backfired when military chiefs resisted. Mr. Montesinos, himself a former army captain, has been credited in the past with rallying the army behind Mr. Fujimori.
"At that moment, he understood that he had lost his battle because he couldn't go on as president after unsuccessfully trying to sack Montesinos," said Mirko Lauer, a columnist for the newspaper La Republica, whose investigative reporters are knowledgeable about the inner workings of Peru's secretive armed forces.
"That is the moment he decided to resign," Mr. Lauer told The Associated Press.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman railed at the police during celebrations in Lima last night and another woman, left, waved a mock wanted poster of President Alberto K. Fujimori, who says he is releasing his 10-year grip on power. (Photographs by Reuters)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (58%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); LIMA, PERU (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; BRIBERY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BRIBERY (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); DRUG POLICY (56%); 

PERSON: FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO; MONTESINOS, VLADIMIRO ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (99%); ALEJANDRO TOLEDO (65%); VLADIMIRO MONTESINOS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



432 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Working Families, Going Without

 BODY:

To the Editor:
One hopes that your disturbing Sept. 13 news article "Family Needs Far Exceed the Official Poverty Line" will shatter the many illusions and distortions about the "economic boom" this country is supposedly enjoying. 
 Not only is the divide between the rich and the poor widening, but our social programs have also become bureaucratic nightmares for the people they are intended to assist.
The woman in Queens you mention is a perfect example of how people are penalized by the system for trying to improve their social and economic status: because she began receiving child support from her son's father, her benefits were cut drastically, leaving her worse off than if she had not received child support!
Poverty is the worst form of violence. It feeds on families, encourages drug abuse and increases crime. Economic boom? For whom?
 
WILL DUCHON
West Harrison, N.Y., Sept. 13, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (88%); TRENDS (86%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (51%); 

PERSON: DUCHON, WILL

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



433 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Working Families, Going Without

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The study showing that living expenses in New York City far outstrip low-wage incomes (news article, Sept. 13) raises a question: How have working New Yorkers been surviving? The answer is no secret to those of us who run the soup kitchens and food pantries. 
 Despite a robust economy, more and more working families are coming to emergency food programs. Unfortunately, most programs can't feed everyone seeking help. The solution is not more programs. We need an increase in the minimum wage, coupled with job-creation programs to develop living-wage jobs for low-skilled workers, effective job training and education, and affordable housing.
 
(Rev.) JOHN BUCKI
New York, Sept. 13, 2000
 
The writer is director of the St. Francis Xavier Welcome Table and chairman of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LIVING WAGE (88%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: BUCKI, JOHN (REV) JOHN BUCKI NEW YORK (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



434 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
Bucking the Swing-State Trend, Ohio Holding Steady, Polls Show

SERIES: BATTLEGROUNDS

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Pennsylvania and several other swing states may have shifted toward Vice President Al Gore in the presidential race in the last three weeks, but so far Ohio has more or less stayed put, if surveys of voters are to be believed.
In polls by various organizations starting in May, Mr. Gore's main rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, has held a reasonably steady lead. A recent survey, completed before Labor Day by The Columbus Dispatch, gave him a lead of six percentage points, 49 to 43, with a margin of sampling error of 2 percent. 
 One of the state's leading academic pollsters said, "This race hasn't changed a lick in Ohio in the last six months." Some politicians see progress for Mr. Gore, but they think that he still has ground to make up.
Which is a bit odd, because this Midwestern state has been considered a political microcosm since the Civil War. Bill Clinton carried it twice (albeit by fewer than 100,000 votes in 1992). Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George Bush took it in the three elections before that, and in 1984, 1988 and 1996, the voting breakdown here almost exactly matched the national pattern.
The last time Ohio voted against the grain was 1960; although he drew big crowds, John F. Kennedy lost here; he said the state broke his heart.
It may be that Ohio, never a very trendy place, is a bit slower to react to changes in the national campaign than are the other big battleground states. It may be that the state Democratic Party's striking lack of recent electoral successes is beginning to take a toll in the party's organization. Or it may be that demographic changes are making Ohio less typical.
Whatever the explanation may be, Mr. Bush's continued strength here is very good news for a campaign that has been short of good news lately -- and no Republican has ever been elected president without carrying Ohio.
Mr. Gore's strategists insist that he can catch Mr. Bush here. With nine paid field operatives already in the state, the Gore campaign decided this week to send in 15 more. And the vice president shows no sign of reducing his campaigning or his television spending in the state, even in the heavily and ancestrally Republican Cincinnati area. He has been there four times this year, and he unveiled his $500 billion tax-cut plan there this summer.
On Tuesday, Mr. Gore and his running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, rode school buses from the Dayton area through Middletown to Cincinnati, trailed by a procession of limousines, regular buses, vans and motorcycles. The idea was to draw attention to the Democrats' prescriptions for education.
Representative Tom Sawyer of Akron, a Democrat, conceded that "Gore had trouble getting traction here, and a month ago people in our own party were saying he was on his last legs." But he said Mr. Gore's emphasis on issues in his speech at the Democratic convention had made a big difference.
"At least this is a contested state now," Mr. Sawyer said. "We have a decent chance to carry it."
Party officials here estimated that the two campaigns and two major parties have already spent $11 million on television commercials in Ohio. It is a costly state, which includes all or part of 12 media markets, including big ones centered on Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati, Dayton and Toledo.
William A. Burga, president of the Ohio A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has more than 800,000 members, said he thought Mr. Gore was spending far too much time in Cincinnati and needed to go "where his base is -- the northern, northeastern, southeastern parts of Ohio."
Still, all the available evidence suggests that Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore have both built solid partisan bases here, and that they are fighting over perhaps 5 to 6 percent of the electorate, composed largely of independents, suburban residents and women.
Few swing voters in Ohio are white, working-class ethnics like such voters in other states, said Dean Lacey, an assistant professor of political science at Ohio State University.
Instead, Mr. Lacey said, they are mostly suburban women -- "soccer moms" -- as well as former supporters of Ross Perot who would have liked the chance to vote for Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, and a fair number of middle-class African-Americans attracted by the Republicans' support for school vouchers. Mr. Perot took 21 percent of the Ohio vote in 1992, although his total fell back to 11 percent four years later.
Kelly Craiglow, 33, who describes herself as a "stay-at-home mom" and lives in Lancaster, a small city southeast of here, is just the sort of voter Mr. Gore needs to win over if he is to carry Ohio. She leans to Mr. Bush because she is a Republican, she said in an interview, but having worked for a time in a pharmacy, she is very worried about the cost of prescription drugs.
"Old people came in there and spent all their money on prescriptions," Ms. Craiglow said. "It was sad, and then they ran completely out of money and had to rely on the government."
Although aware that both Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore had plans to deal with the problem, she acknowledged that she had not taken the time to study and compare them. But she said she would watch the debates and "probably vote for whichever one sounds as if he is going to be able to help those people a little."
Mr. Gore may have more trouble reaching voters like Elaine Medsker, 71, who works part time at a hospital near her home in Geauga County, east of Cleveland. Her comments dealt with character, not policy questions.
"I've been very depressed by Mr. Clinton. He's a sleazy person, and Gore's not far behind," said Mrs. Medsker, a Republican who has voted for Democrats for president in the past. "Gore makes so many promises, one after another, and you know he can't deliver on them. Now, President Bush was a good man, an honest man, and I think he has a good influence on his son."
Like Mr. Sawyer, Mr. Burga said he had detected some recent movement toward Mr. Gore, whether or not it had been reflected in the polls. People were beginning to volunteer in larger numbers, he said, "as the vice president starts to focus on the issues our members think about, like prescription drugs, education and Social Security."
Labor has changed its tactics for this campaign, Mr. Burga said. It is putting new emphasis on getting campaign materials into the hands of every local union official in the state. He said he hoped that workers would respond more enthusiastically to the urging of their elected leaders than "to what some bunch of guys in Washington or Columbus tells them that they ought to do."
How much the state Democratic Party will be able to contribute to the Gore effort is questionable. The Republicans have a strong organization, built up over many decades by chairmen like Ray C. Bliss, who went on to head the Republican National Committee, and the incumbent, Robert T. Bennett.
At the moment, the Republicans here, led by Gov. Bob Taft, hold every statewide constitutional office and both Senate seats, plus solid margins in the Congressional delegation (11-8), the State Senate (21-12) and the State House of Representatives (59-40). The Democrats have been having trouble recruiting strong candidates; as a result, Senator Michael DeWine, no political superman, is expected to win easily this fall over the untested Ted Celeste, a Democrat who is the brother of former Gov. Richard F. Celeste. If so, Mr. DeWine would be the first Republican senator from Ohio to win re-election since John W. Bricker did it in 1952.
Representative John R. Kasich, the Columbus Republican who made a brief run for the Republican presidential nomination last year, argued that the State Democratic Party would be of little help to Mr. Gore in November.
"Gore will pay a price for the Democrats' weakened condition," Mr. Kasich said. "They're in a shambles. The only thing I can compare it to is the lousy condition of our own party in the 1970's as a result of Watergate."
Mr. Kasich is retiring. His district, once considered marginal, is now leaning slightly toward the Republican nominee, Pat Tiberi, the majority leader in the State House. But Mr. Tiberi has been distancing himself from Mr. Bush's 10-year, $1.3 trillion tax-cut proposal, focusing instead on more modest measures, like eliminating the inheritance tax.
"Insurance," an Ohio Republican consultant said. "If Gore demolishes Bush's tax plan in the debates next month, Tiberi doesn't want to pay."
Big industrial unions like the steelworkers, in Cleveland and Youngstown; the automobile workers, in the Cleveland area; and the rubber workers, in Akron, used to be strong in Ohio. But now the dominant unions are those for teachers (the Ohio Education Association has 120,000 members) and the state, county and municipal workers, with 105,000.
The Kasich district exemplifies the demographic changes that are transforming Ohio. Columbus is now the largest city (though not the largest metropolitan area) in the state, supplanting Cleveland. Its growth is in white-collar jobs at Ohio State, insurance companies like Nationwide and banks like Bank One, rather than the industrial jobs on which the state once depended.
Delaware County, which forms the northern part of the district, used to be a bucolic place. The town of Delaware, the county seat and the home of Ohio Wesleyan University, still plays host to one of harness racing's main events, the Little Brown Jug, each September. (Brown jug banners were hanging from lamp poles there this week.) But the county is fast filling up with new, prosperous, Republican-leaning suburbs.
Despite the large number of liberal-arts colleges, Ohio stands in the bottom quarter of states in the percentage of residents who are college graduates. And according to one recent survey, Ohio ranks in the bottom third in number of technology-driven businesses.
"Our demographics are slowly drifting away from the national norms," said Mike Curtin, the associate publisher of The Dispatch, who has been watching elections in Ohio for decades. "We're aging; we're exporting our college graduates; and we're not very involved in the new economy. We're not going to be the barometer we have been.
"The state's still in play, of course, but the hill Democratic candidates have to climb gets a degree or two steeper every four years or so."
 
Battlegrounds
 
This is the second article in a series about four swing states that are likely to be critical to the outcome of the presidential race. Later articles will look at Wisconsin and Michigan. An earlier article looked at Pennsylvania.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
One map yesterday in a grouping with an article about the importance of Ohio in the presidential race showed erroneous calculations of population density by county. Here is a corrected version.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Ohio's Electorate"
Ohio, where almost 75 percent of the voters are registered as non-partisan, will play an important role in this year's presidential race. Here is a closer look at the state.
 
Maps seperate Ohio in terms of demographics for 1999, Median income for 1995, and votes for presidenial candidates in the 1988, 1992, and 1996 elections.
(Sources: Congressional Quarterly; U.S. Census Bureau; Ohio Department of State)(pg. A16) Map shows population density by county in Ohio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; MIDWESTERN STATES (US); PENNSYLVANIA ; UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; WOMEN POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); US LABOR DAY (71%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); TAX RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000



435 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E;Page 1;Column 1;The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: China Troupe Overcomes, As Did Man Behind It

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
In 1968, at the height of China's Cultural Revolution, Deng Pufang, then a student of physics at Beijing University, fell, jumped or was pushed from a fourth-floor window after being savaged by Red Guards who had singled him out as the son of a "capitalist roader."
The "capitalist roader" was Deng Xiaoping, who was later to be China's highest-ranking leader until his death in 1987. And Deng Pufang, his eldest son, who broke his back in that fall and lost the use of both legs, became in due course the chairman of China's Disabled Persons Federation and a visible and vigorous champion of China's 60 million disabled citizens. 
 Now Mr. Deng is in the United States on a six-city tour with 39 members of the China Disabled People's Performing Arts Troupe, whose dazzling performances -- including one on Monday night at Carnegie Hall -- are proof that in China today, being blind, deaf, mentally retarded or confined to a wheelchair is no barrier to artistic self-realization.
"Even for us working in this area, we are very much surprised to see that so many disabled people are so gifted and talented," said Mr. Deng, speaking through an interpreter. "And we believe many people in the society have no knowledge of their talents."
"In China the troupe has been traveling across the country and every performance was a sensation," he said. "The audiences are moved by their talent but, more important, they are touched by the spirit demonstrated on the stage, their unyielding efforts and their pursuit of development."
The performance is a collection of songs and dances, operas and musical compositions drawn from ancient and modern Chinese culture. Among the stars are deaf dancers performing the "Thousand-Hand Bodhisattva"; Qiu Erming, the deaf son of the founder of the Qiu School of Beijing Opera, who in an excerpt from "Stealing the Royal Horse" uses his father's recorded voice; and Guan Yongfen, a singer who performs from her wheelchair.
One of the most striking numbers is "The Wings of Life," in which five amputees, using their crutches, present a lively and moving dance. The concert's last number is a medley by the orchestra conducted by Hu Yyishou, a 22-year-old mentally retarded man whose ability to make music is not impaired by an I.Q. of less than 30.
Interviewed in his hotel room in Washington, where the troupe had come for a Sunday performance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Mr. Deng was eager to talk about China's disabled people, with one exception: himself. He demurred when asked to clear up the conflicting accounts of how he came to fall from the fourth-story window, and referred to a 1995 biography of his father, written by his sister Xiao Rong.
"She wrote a lot about my father's experience during the Cultural Revolution," he said. "You should check that book. That would be the right answer."
And when asked to retell the version in the book, he again demurred, this time with a coy chuckle. "There are a lot of rumors and different things said about that," he said. "But I can tell you that the book has the right answer. But that would not be an answer directly from me."
 In the book Ms. Xiao wrote that Deng Pufang, after being beaten, could no longer bear the agony, wrote a suicide note and jumped out of the window. Another version of the incident, cited in a June 1989 article in The New York Times by Harrison Salisbury, said Deng Pufang never knew exactly what happened to him. After the fall, Mr. Salisbury wrote, Mr. Deng was left on his own in a hostel north of Beijing, where he had to weave wire baskets for a living. His father later managed to move his son to the military compound where he himself was being held.)
Such caution about personal experiences would come naturally to the son of a leader as powerful as Deng Xiaoping. In the final years of their father's life, Mr. Deng and his siblings were viewed by many as prime examples of China's "princeling" caste, heirs of high-ranking officials who took advantage of their access and privilege to make their own personal fortunes. According to one published report, Deng Xiaoping openly chided his eldest son for his association with the Kanghua Development Corporation, a private company many suspected of being corrupt; Mr. Deng ultimately resigned.
But Mr. Deng rebuffs any suggestion that he personally benefited from his father's position. "I do not know where you got information that my family is connected to a privileged group," he said, as always answering with a benign smile and a slightly surprised look in his eyes. "I believe such privileges might exist. I had a very great man as my father, but I never believe that I have privileges because I have such a father. I went to school with ordinary children, my classmates were from ordinary families."
"Even though I had access and opportunities to meet many top leaders," he said, "yet I myself would prefer life as an ordinary man and to serve the needs of people with most difficulties."
Since his father's death Mr. Deng has maintained his high-profile position. He was elected an alternate member of the Communist Party's Central Committee and maintains good relations with President Jiang Zemin, who recently attended a performance in Beijing of the disabled people's arts troupe.
Mr. Deng is credited at home and abroad with playing an important role in putting the needs of the disabled onto China's political agenda. He proudly lists the results. Twenty years ago only 6 percent of disabled children had access to education; today 70 to 80 percent are in school. Employment rates among disabled people have also risen from 50 percent to more than 70 percent. In 1990 a law was passed guaranteeing rights for the handicapped. "People are moving out of the isolation of their homes into society," Mr. Deng said.
When he first began to work in behalf of disabled people Mr. Deng discovered that they were not only poor but also were treated with prejudice and contempt. Some of this he came to attribute to China's low level of economic development, but some he saw as the result of a culture that had never cared for the weak.
"In the beginning I encountered many difficult questions: no access to rehabilitation, schools, employments," he said. "There was an invisible barrier because China had a very weak foundation for morality. It was not like Western countries where you have several centuries of education of humanitarianism."
"Part of my work was to give broad publicity to the subject of humanitarianism, to teach that disabled people should be regarded as human beings in the first place, rather than putting the emphasis on their disabilities." he said. "I was telling society that disabled people were entitled to rights, so in this way I gradually changed the social environment."
The concerted drive to improve life for the disabled coincided with his father's policy of economic reform, which has produced a sharp rise in living standards in China. But Mr. Deng continues to dwell on the need to raise the level of "humanitarianism," which he defines as a belief in equal rights, equal opportunities and equal dignity for all citizens.
"I want to make people not only accept the philosophy," he said, "but to make the theory deep rooted in their hearts and to make it the basic normal of social life, to make this theory something very natural from childhood."
Once "a humanitarian environment" was created, "not only disabled people but everybody would benefit," he said, adding, "In China, this is a very important subject."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the China Disabled People's Performing Arts Troupe and its chairman, Deng Pufang, who are touring the United States, misstated the year of the death of Mr. Deng's father, the Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping. It was 1997, not 1987.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Deng Pufang at a performance by disabled Chinese artists in Washington. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. E1); "The Thousand-Hand Bodhisattva" dance performed by 12 deaf Chinese girls in Washington. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DISABLED PERSONS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); DANCE (88%); MUSIC (88%); MENTAL RETARDATION (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); THEATER (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); DANCERS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



436 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA;
Harvard Finds 2 Poems, and a Latin Romance Reignites

BYLINE: By Simon Romero 

 BODY:
One wintry December day three years ago, David Whitesell, a rare-book cataloger at Harvard University, walked from his windowless office into the seemingly endless stacks in Widener Library. What he found on one shelf made his heart race, and in recent months his discovery has become the talk of literary circles in Latin America and Spain.
Browsing through the stacks, Mr. Whitesell pulled down a book with attractive red binding by an obscure Argentine poet and leafed through its pages. Scribbled in the book's margins and blank pages were lines of verse in Spanish and the words "Ruben Dario" in black ink. Startled and in doubt, Mr. Whitesell put the book back on the shelf. 
 But after a sleepless night, he returned to the library and compared the scribbling with handwriting samples of Ruben Dario, a Nicaraguan modernist poet considered by many to be the equivalent of an Ezra Pound or Walt Whitman in the Spanish language.
In an investigation corroborated by literary and rare-book specialists, Mr. Whitesell found that he had unearthed two unknown poems composed by Dario at the turn of the century in addition to several dozen books from the Nicaraguan writer's personal library that Harvard acquired from a Madrid bookseller in 1916, the year Dario died.
Although Mr. Whitesell made the discovery in 1997, it took until early this year for Harvard to gather the writings and the portion of Dario's library initially uncovered by Mr. Whitesell into an exhibition, "Ruben Dario at Harvard: Books and Manuscripts from the Poet's Library." Eighty-four years after the poet's death, the exhibition has drawn the fascinated attention of literary journals, Web sites and newspapers from Barcelona to Buenos Aires.
In Nicaragua the newspaper La Prensa heralded the discovery with a front-page headline and an article that analyzed the poems in detail. In Spain, the newspaper ABC commented that "Harvard has so many books it doesn't even know what it has." In Argentina, La Nacion declared the find to be important simply because the poems and books survived Dario's "chaotic life." And in Chile, La Tercera called the discovery a "true intellectual detective adventure."
Why all the commotion?
Carmen Boullosa, a novelist who reviewed the exhibition for the Mexican newspaper Reforma, considers 'Ruben Dario to be "the greatest Latin American poet of all time," but says that the reasons for the furor are more complicated.
"At a time when Latin America is plagued by violence and economic problems, Ruben Dario, who dreamed we would be improved, returns," she explained in a telephone interview from Mexico City. "Just as impressive, Harvard has placed him next to its volumes of Milton, Donne, Montaigne."
Though his work is not widely known in English -- he is considered difficult to translate -- Dario's grip on Spanish-language writers is explained by his interesting bohemian life as well as his literary innovations. Born Felix Ruben Garcia y Sarmiento in a muddy village called Metapa in 1867, he adopted the nom de plume Dario as a young man and spent his adult years in Santiago, Chile; Buenos Aires; Madrid; and Paris.
Dario is credited by many scholars as having set the foundation for innovation by such 20th-century Latin American writers as Octavio Paz and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. In works like "Azul," published in 1888, and "To Roosevelt," in 1904, Dario dispensed with the conventional structures that had isolated Spanish and Latin American writing from the modernist experimentalism then tearing through French and English poetry and literature.
When Dario died in 1916 at age 49, his mistress in Madrid, Francisca Sanchez, apparently sold numerous volumes in his collection to a bookseller named Joaquin Medinilla to cover debts. More than 45 of Dario's books, identified by dedications to the poet or by the half-red binding that Dario used for many of his volumes, were subsequently acquired by J. D. M. Ford, the professor who was in charge of Spanish and French acquisitions at the time, according to Mr. Whitesell.
Mr. Whitesell, the cataloger who found the scribbled lines, said: "Finding unknown poems written by Dario is something that still makes me tremble."
"But I also could not believe my eyes when I found part of his personal library in the depths of Widener," he said.
The two previously unknown poems were found in a book called "Eglantinas" by Pedro J. Naon, an Argentine writer who has since faded into obscurity. One is sixlines long and begins with the words "Sadness, sadness"; the other is a longer poem called "Epistolas," dedicated to a friend of Dario's in Paris, Amado Nervo.
There are earlier versions of poems from Dario's 1905 "Songs of Life and Hope," and a seashell-like sketch he made on top of the publisher's logo on a book's back cover.
"It is not as if the poems themselves, which represent only a blip on the radar screen of Dario's career, are of great importance," said JoseAntonio Mazzotti, a professor of Romance languages and literature at Harvard. "More importantly, they show that Dario considered this book a minor work, which in effect it is, or else he wouldn't have written in it."
Mr. Whitesell's discovery has been compared to the story line of a recent novel, "The Club Dumas," by the Spanish writer Arturo Perez-Reverte, in which the intrigue of the rare-book world is laid bare. The book served as the basis for the screenplay for Roman Polanski's recent movie "The Ninth Gate," starring Johnny Depp.
"A discovery of this magnitude is quite rare," said Richard Ramer, a New York dealer of rare books written in Spanish and Portuguese. "Given Ruben Dario's stature, I would say this is one of the most important discoveries in recent years."
Others say that the discovery highlights the gulf between academic institutions in the United States and those in Latin America. "It's telling of the resources gap between the United States and Nicaragua that Harvard would have little or no idea of the treasures it holds," said Paul Berman, a cultural critic who recently researched Dario as a fellow at the Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library.
Harvard's budget for the year ended in June was almost $1.8 billion, nearly twice the federal budget of Nicaragua, which Pedro Zeas, an economic official at the United States Embassy in Managua, estimated at $901 million this year.
The reawakened interest in Dario has stirred pride among Nicaraguan writers.
"It is as if the glue that holds us together has become stronger," said Pablo Antonio Cuadra, a former editor of La Prensa and one of the country's most prominent poets, in a telephone interview from Managua. Julio Valle Castillo, a Nicaraguan poet who is preparing a screenplay based on Dario's life, welcomed the discovery as "a glimpse into the creative process of our greatest subject."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nicaraguan poet Ruben Dario in a portrait from around 1911, and the first page of his poem "Epistolas," discovered at Harvard. (Portrait by D. Vasquez, Michael Quan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); NICARAGUA (90%); SPAIN (88%); MEXICO (88%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (72%); 

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (58%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); NICARAGUA (90%); SPAIN (88%); MEXICO (88%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (72%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS WRITERS (90%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BOOKSTORES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; DARIO, RUBEN (1867-1916) RUBEN DARIO (96%); DAVID WHITESELL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



437 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Debate This!

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Let's get crazy for a moment and imagine that the two presidential candidates are actually going to devote one of their debates to foreign policy -- what would they talk about? Would Al Gore, Rick Lazio-like, thrust upon George W. Bush a map of the world with the country names spelled out phonetically (RUSH-ah, ee-ROCK, Grease)? Would Mr. Bush ask Mr. Gore to give viewers his insights on Buddhist temples? Nah. Doubt it.
Mr. Gore could, though, ask the Republican candidate to explain how is it that Mr. Bush's foreign policy advisers say the U.S. shouldn't be the world's global cop or 911, fighting wars around the world, while Mr. Bush's vice-presidential nominee, Dick Cheney, says U.S. troops are woefully underfunded and underprepared. Put it together and the Bush position is that the U.S. military should be better prepared to do nothing and better funded to go nowhere. 
 Mr. Gore could also ask Mr. Bush why, if the Republicans are so serious about foreign policy, they allowed both the Senate and House foreign affairs committees to be run by Republican lawmakers, such as Jesse Helms, who had so little clue about the world that these two once-great committees have become more irrelevant than anytime in their histories.
Mr. Bush, for his part, could press Mr. Gore to elaborate on his call for more "forward engagement" in U.S. foreign policy, to quell crises before they erupt. For instance, Mr. Bush could ask Mr. Gore for a single example of where the Clinton team successfully forward-engaged. The Asian economic crisis? Haiti? Kosovo? Russia? Cuba? Iraq? Other than in North Korea, where the Clinton team deserves credit for defusing a very dangerous situation, this would be a short list.
But this forward engagement concept actually would be a good place to start a debate. Where would each candidate be working right now to defuse a crisis that could require costly U.S. intervention, and what tools would he use? Right answer: The most likely places for U.S. intervention in the next four years are five islands: Cuba, Taiwan, Indonesia, North Korea and Iraq -- the latter two being islands unto themselves.
On Cuba, eventually Fidel Castro is going to pass away, and when he does there will be enormous pressure from Miami Cubans to intervene in Havana when a power struggle breaks out there. Now is the time to be preparing a soft landing for Cuba. Regarding Taiwan, China's Jiang Zemin is expected to step down at the next party congress in 2001 and he will not want to leave office without having at least resumed the dialogue with Taiwan, or be seen to have taken some decisive, unilateral action to press unification. Because a war between China and Taiwan threatens so many U.S. interests, the next president should consider secret U.S. mediation between the two as soon as he's sworn in.
North Korea is a small basket case, whose hard-headed regime is also desperately in need of a soft landing, which the Clinton team has been working on, and Indonesia is a large basket case, whose soft-headed regime may be incapable of keeping Indonesia from splitting apart. Indonesia is a long way from Washington, but if the world's fourth-largest country, which sits astride the key shipping lanes of Southeast Asia, comes unglued, America will get drawn in.
Finally, U.S. fighter planes are in action over Iraq every day. It will take just one U.S. plane to be shot down inside Iraq for the next president to have his foreign policy agenda immediately dominated by what to do about Saddam Hussein. (Actually, we're already Saddam's hostages. With today's oil market so tight, if he takes just a few barrels off the market, gasoline could go to $3 a gallon.)
As for new tools, one place the next president could start is by revamping U.S. foreign aid, by both greatly expanding the foreign aid budget, so that America is no longer the world's cheapskate, and by making all U.S. non-military assistance or debt relief conditional. The condition would be that the recipient country put in place basic anti-corruption, rule-of-law measures and institutions that will attract private investors, who have replaced governments as the key source of capital for growth in the world. Aid or investment will not work in countries without institutions.
 As I said, just some crazy thoughts. No doubt the presidential candidates can, and will, get by without discussing any of them. The next president won't be so lucky. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CUBA (91%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUT IT TOGETHER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CUBA (91%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HAITI (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (56%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



438 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: What Local Control?

BYLINE: By Leon Botstein; Leon Botstein is president of Bard College.

DATELINE: ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y.

 BODY:
The presidential candidates are taking their parties to new places with their education proposals: Al Gore has called for higher standards for teachers as well as higher pay, while George W. Bush has emphasized closing the achievement gap between rich and poor and holding schools accountable for student performance. Yet no matter who wins in November, there is little reason to believe that any serious improvement is in the offing.
This is because neither candidate is willing to confront the underlying obstacle to real change: the premise that the basic responsibility for education rests with communities and states, not the federal government. 
 Americans have become so accustomed to trashing Big Government that calling for Washington to take charge of education might sound absurd. Indeed, today's conventional wisdom points toward privatization -- the dismantling of large state education systems through vouchers and charter schools. But educational equity will only be possible through a national system that insures a minimum standard of excellence.
Consider the effects of our patchwork quilt of local governance. Our schools have become a battleground for local disputes over prayer in school, for example, and property taxes, issues that have little to do with education. School boards are notoriously unstable. The country has nearly 15,000 boards, and the average term of a member is less than four years. In New York state, one-quarter of the membership changes every year. As a result, superintendents are hired and fired too rapidly. In urban school districts, the average length of service is under three years; nationally, the average is six years.
Annual school board elections and voter approval of school budgets are among the last bastions of direct democracy, but noble as that citizen involvement may be, why should children frequently be the victims of voters' frustration over their own powerlessness in other aspects of politics? And why do we continue to finance schools primarily on property assessments in an age when real estate is no longer the dominant source of wealth?
The results of this system are all too clear. In August, the Department of Education released its latest report card, a three-decade survey of performance by 9-, 13- and 17-year-olds. Reading scores remained flat in all age groups. And they were not high to begin with. In science, 9-year-olds showed no improvement at all throughout the 1990's, and the scores of 17-year-olds today were lower than in 1969. At a time of rapid economic and scientific progress, learning in America stands still.
Every other developed nation has a national system of education. We too should insist that our students and teachers meet stringent national and international standards. The current supplemental grants from Washington are insufficent to bridge the gap between rich and poor districts: school spending should come primarily from the federal budget, based on income tax revenues.
And some improvements can be achieved without creating more federal bureaucracy. For example, as Gov. Gray Davis of California has suggested, we can use the tax code. We could in effect raise salaries by exempting teachers in public schools from state and federal income taxes.
And contrary to the claims of some, there is no constitutional objection to a larger federal role. The framers did not directly exclude education from the federal agenda.
If one wants a clear constitutional basis for rethinking the federal role, look to the interstate commerce clause. The Internet has made it plain that information and knowledge cross state lines. If that argument seems a bit too clever, consider that since we live now in the so-called global economy, contingent on scientific knowledge and high levels of literacy, should not education be deemed essential to the national defense and foreign policy? There are many precedents in constitutional interpretation that can permit a 21st-century America to abandon 18th-century practices.
As things stand now, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore can say anything they want about education, but in the end, they can't be held accountable. A real "education president" would be one who admits that our education crisis cuts across state lines, and that the solution is a federal system based on national standards and paid for with federal dollars.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Maris Bishofs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; STATES (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (87%); BUDGETS (87%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); APPROVALS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (63%); INCOME TAX (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (53%); CHURCH & STATE (52%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BOTSTEIN, LEON GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



439 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Not Living On a $5.15 Minimum;
Little Impact Seen in Raising Wage Now

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: BURTONSVILLE, Md.

 BODY:
Four years ago, the last time Congress agreed to raise the minimum wage, Lynn Martins was quick -- though far from eager -- to respond.
On word that she would soon have to pay employees at her family-owned Seibel's Restaurant 50 cents more an hour, Ms. Martins printed up new menus virtually overnight, pushing the price of a basic hamburger up a dime to more than $3. 
 "I anticipated," she said. "I raised prices prior to the rise even taking effect" to try to blunt the impact on payroll costs that she knew was coming. Subsequently, Ms. Martins, who is very reluctant to lay anybody off, decided not to replace an employee who left, choosing instead to give a raise to another employee and ask that he do the work of two.
But not this time. Despite the near-certainty that a Congressional conference committee will work out differences between House and Senate versions of the minimum-wage legislation, most likely raising the federally mandated minimum to $6.15 in two annual 50-cent increments, Ms. Martins sees no need to hurry.
The labor market is so tight, at least in most urban areas, that many employers are already paying more than the $5.15 minimum to attract workers. In many cases, companies are already paying more than the proposed higher minimums. Except for high school students, unskilled help gets an average starting wage of about $7 an hour around here, in the suburban stretch between Baltimore and Washington.
"The market has lifted it well above the minimum wage even with the increases," Ms. Martins said. She said she did not expect actually to benefit from Republican pledges to offset higher wage mandates with more-generous tax breaks, which, in any case, would be less useful than cash.
Since she already pays as much as required by the prospective law, Ms. Martins said she could "probably sit out the winter" before raising menu prices or cutting the payroll. Besides, she added, her staff of 17 full-time and 30 part-time workers usually shrinks by half a dozen over the winter as business slows and more employees focus on school.
Restaurants and retailers have traditionally been among the sectors of the economy most affected by Washington's wage mandates. But they are expressing little alarm about the proposed increase.
Amazon.com, for example, the seller of books, music and video products over the Internet, said none of its 7,000 American employees, the bulk of them at some 10 distribution centers around the country, earn just the minimum. "The best reading I have from human resources is we're not affected by this," said Bill Curry, a senior spokesman for the company, which is based in Seattle.
Even the ailing Kmart Corporation, which has been forced into a major restructuring, expressed only mild regret at the prospect of a higher minimum wage. "We'd prefer, if it needs to be increased, that it not be increased immediately," said Mary Lorencz, the director of media relations. Since the company did not budget for an increase this year, she said Kmart would prefer that the rise be delayed until the company's new fiscal year begins on Feb. 1.
The version of the bill passed by the House calls for the first rise on Jan. 1, with the second 50-cent increment on Jan. 1, 2002. The minimum wage has been in place since 1938, when it was 25 cents an hour.
Nevertheless, today's prosperity seems likely to blunt only temporarily, not block, the economic forces that a higher minimum wage tends to unleash. Many companies may find profits eroded, in some cases to the point of failure, while hours are cut and prices are pushed up. Jobs may arguably be lost or the creation of new jobs slowed. The significance of these effects following previous increases in the minimum wage is a matter of debate, especially the effect on employment.
"The impact is very different, depending on who you talk to," said Lee Culpepper, senior vice president of the National Restaurant Association and leader of a multi-industry alliance devoted to the minimum wage issue called the Coalition for Job Opportunities.
Among the variables are whether a business is in a high-cost urban area or a low-cost rural one, whether employees are tipped or rely solely on wages and whether the enterprise is in one of the 10 states plus the District of Columbia that have their own minimums set higher than the federal one. In low-cost areas, employees are more likely to be earning the minimum than elsewhere, meaning that a mandated increase has greater impact.
Employees who make tips are entitled to be paid a wage of at least $2.38 an hour -- half the regular federal minimum of $4.75 that prevailed before the last increase in September 1997 -- and their employer must make sure that earnings, including tips, reach $5.15 an hour. In practice, tipped employees often earn much more.
Oregon and Washington, at $6.50, have the highest state minimums, followed by Connecticut, Rhode Island and the District of Columbia at $6.15. Connecticut is to go to $6.40 in January. In New York and New Jersey, the rate is set at the federal minimum.
Delaware's minimum is to climb to $6.15 from $5.65 on Oct. 1, posing an immediate problem for Robert E. Ashby, proprietor of McGlynns Pub and Restaurant in Newark, Del., who has 110 employees in two locations and is now conducting his annual review of menu prices.
"Our employees are already earning well above the federal minimum and we still have to go and give an increase," Mr. Ashby said. He said that the cost was magnified when the increase moved up the payroll ladder as he sought to maintain differentials for workers with more skills or seniority. And the impact can be quite subtle. In the last round of increases, for example, Mr. Ashby not only pruned staff hours but switched some setup work from morning, before the restaurant opened, to night. This saved him money because the employees involved had to be paid the full minimum when there was no opportunity for tips but could be paid only half as much if they did the same work at night while the restaurant was open.
Even in hindsight, the effects of increases in the minimum wage arouse intense feelings. Mr. Culpepper, of the restaurant group, pointed to "a price increase and a job impact" from the two-stage 90-cent rise in 1996 and 1997. He cited government figures showing, for example, that employment growth at eating and drinking establishments slowed to 129,100 in 1997 from 276,400 in 1995 and that menu prices, which had long trailed general inflation, suddenly began to outpace inflation beginning in 1997.
Those who favor higher minimums, however, question those conclusions. John Schmitt, an analyst at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, said he found no evidence of job loss other than that related to normal business-cycle fluctuations for either of two groups thought most vulnerable: teenagers and less-educated adults.
The industry's slackened job growth, he suggested, might reflect an inability of employers to find lower-paid workers. "In a booming economy, they have trouble competing with other sectors that pay better wages," Mr. Schmitt said.
In addition, a survey by the Jerome Levy Economics Institute of Bard College found that only 6.2 percent of 568 representative small businesses had their hiring or employment decisions affected by minimum-wage increases in 1996 and 1997.
In return for supporting this year's legislation to raise the minimum, the House Republicans are seeking to include various items of tax relief that would soften the presumed burden on business. Among these items are raising the deduction for business meals for everyone to 80 percent from 50 percent, accelerating full deductibility of health insurance premiums paid by the self-employed and nearly doubling the amount of equipment that can be expensed immediately rather than depreciated. In addition, the proposal would repeal a surtax on sellers of alcoholic beverages, extend a credit for hiring disadvantaged workers and allow people who sell their businesses to pay capital gains taxes in installments.
Further, the cash wage for tipped employees would be frozen at current levels in all states, and states would no longer be permitted to disallow credit for tips.
Yet neither Ms. Martins nor Mr. Ashby, who have made little use of an existing provision in minimum wage regulations to pay teenagers as little as $4.25 for the first 90 days of work, were much aware of the Republican proposals or took appreciable comfort from them.
Cash seemed paramount with Ms. Martins, whose revenue at Seibel's has just surpassed $1 million a year. She calculates that the proposed increase will cost her a relatively modest $2,400 in 2001 but a cumulative $30,000 in 2002.
Kevin M. Murphy, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business who has studied the minimum wage, has no doubts that there will be noticeable effects, showing up perhaps well before President Clinton signs the bill.
"It's probably not going to be as big as before, given the strength of the economy," he said. "But certainly it will be something."
Mr. Ashby, the Delaware restaurant owner, agreed. "I have to cut hours or increase prices," he said. "There's no other way of dealing with it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lynn Martins, who owns a restaurant in Maryland, says she already pays as much as the proposed increased minimum wage and has no plans to raise the price of burgers. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times); Robert E. Ashby, a restaurant operator in Newark, Del., said increases in the minimum wage would mean he must adjust his pay scale upward. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
 
Map: "SETTING THEIR OWN LIMITS"
Ten states and the District of Columbia have set their own minimum wages
that are higher than the federal mandate of $5.15.
 
WASHINGTON: $6.50
OREGON: $6.50
CALIFORNIA: $5.75
ALASKA: $5.65
HAWAII: $5.25
CONNECTICUT: $6.15
VERMONT: $5.75
MASSACHUSETTS: $6.00
DELAWARE: $5.65
RHODE ISLAND: $6.15
Washington (DC): $6.15
(Source: Economy.com)(pg. C29)
 
Chart: "Working to Keep Up"
The federal minimum wage, after failing to keep pace with inflation in the 1980s, has been increased regularly since then, helping to maintain the effective buying power of minimum-wage workers.
 
Graph shows INFLATION-ADJUSTED MINIMUM WAGE* and the ACTUAL MINIMUM WAGE from 1980-2000. (Source: Economy.com)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (60%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); MENU PRICES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR LYNN MARTINS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



440 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
As Euro Slides, So Do Earnings Across the U.S.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The beleaguered euro continued its relentless decline yesterday as the impact of that currency's weakness spread across the American corporate landscape, cutting into sales and profits.
Gillette said that the drop in the value of several currencies, particularly the euro, would reduce the dollar value of sales by 6 percent in the third quarter, compared with a year ago. The news sent its stock down $2.19, or 7.3 percent, to $27.63. 
 Shares of DuPont, McDonald's, Colgate-Palmolive and other companies that do a major part of their business in Europe have also experienced declines after saying that they would be hurt by the weak euro. In trading yesterday the euro fell to a new intraday low of 85.10 cents and finished the day in New York at 85.46 cents.
Adding to the sales and profit problems of these multinational companies is the rising cost of oil and gasoline. It is sapping European spending power and, at the same time, raising corporate costs, a fact that has particularly hurt DuPont.
The decline in the value of the euro, or any other currency against the dollar, cuts into performance when sales and profits from abroad are translated into dollars. Hedging in currency markets can limit these impacts but can be expensive.
What is making the decline of the euro extra painful for American companies is that this was supposed to be the year the currency of 11 nations bottomed out and then began to rally, after falling 13.7 percent in its debut year of 1999. With that view in mind at the beginning of the year companies would naturally choose not to hedge to protect themselves against a further decline in the value of the euro. Instead, the euro has plunged another 15.1 percent this year.
"If you were expecting a bounce this year, you might not have hedged," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn.
Susan Stalnecker, the treasurer at DuPont, said: "The euro has not behaved the way people expected. I don't think, if you talked to anyone, they would be on the right side of this."
She said that DuPont's hedging strategy "only works when there is not a lot of volatility" in the foreign exchange market. "In volatile times you are more exposed."
DuPont says it will lose 2 cents a share in earnings for the second half of the year because of the weakening euro.
DuPont also showed the heavy impact that the rise in the price of oil was having. In its earnings warning on Sept. 7, DuPont's vice president for investor relations, Ann Gualtieri, said that 7 cents to 10 cents a share would be trimmed from earnings in the second half of the year because of higher energy costs.
According to some analysts, more companies also seem to have decided to ride out currency fluctuations, rather than aggressively hedge against them. This is because of losses suffered from attempts to hedge in the past and the belief that there would be less volatility in the currency market now that Europe has a single currency for 11 nations.
"Despite an increase in trade globally, there seems to be a reduction in the amount of hedging being done," said Robert White, executive vice president and treasurer at Standard Chartered Bank.
Eric Kraus, vice president for corporate communications at Gillette, said the company looked "for opportunity hedging -- but on a quarter-by-quarter, year-by-year basis, we don't do it."
"It is not a general practice," he added.
He also said that Gillette made a decision not to hedge against a further decline in the euro this year because it was thought that the euro was already near its bottom and was set for a rally. This view, he said, made hedging "an expensive undertaking at the time."
He also pointed out that it was not just the fall in the euro that was hurting companies with business in Europe this quarter. A sharp decline in the British pound is also cutting into sales and profits. Since the end of the second quarter in June, the euro is off 10.3 percent against the dollar while the British pound is down 7.1 percent. The average value of the euro so far this quarter, compared with the third quarter of 1999, is down 13.1 percent, which is the important comparison for year-to- year quarterly sales and profits. The average value of the British pound is down 7.4 percent so far this quarter compared with a year ago.
Mr. Kraus said that if the euro had held at 95 cents to the dollar at the end of June, then overall sales in the third quarter would be projected to rise 3 percent in the third quarter, compared with the third quarter of 1999, rather than the flat result now forecast. If the value of the euro held at the $1.05 of the third quarter of 1999, then the dollar value of sales would have been up 6 percent.
Edward Kerschner and Thomas Doerflinger of PaineWebber said in a commentary yesterday that the euro and oil prices would make it much tougher for companies with "heavy exposure to Europe" to meet current earnings forecasts for the third quarter. The report lists 100 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index that have 18 percent or more of their sales from Europe.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "CURRENCIES"
Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since March 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
(pg. C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; SALES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



441 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Oil Prices Hit New 10-Year High on Fear of Persian Gulf Strife

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Oil prices surged yesterday to their highest levels in a decade, on fears that rising tensions between Iraq and Kuwait would disrupt the flow of crude oil from the Persian Gulf at a time when petroleum supplies around the world are extremely tight.
The cost of crude for delivery in October increased 96 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $36.88 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Exchange, the steepest price for oil since the Persian Gulf War. In London, the price of Brent crude oil for delivery in November also reached a 10-year peak, rising 99 cents, to $34.97 a barrel. 
 Oil prices have hovered near 10-year highs all month in the United States, largely because of growing concern about lower-than-usual supplies of crude oil and home heating fuel. Consequently, possible threats to the supply of oil easily spark increases in crude prices.
Traders seemed to be reacting to the last week's increasingly belligerent talk from Iraq about Kuwait's new oil projects. Iraq has accused Kuwait, which it once invaded and which it considers a puppet of the United States, of authorizing projects close to their mutual border that would permit Kuwait to tap oil deposits in Iraq. On Sunday, Saddam Hussein, the leader of Iraq, warned that "the superpowers will fasten their grip on oil-producing countries," according to the Iraqi press. Speaking at a cabinet meeting, he reportedly urged fellow members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to resist such pressure from the United States and Europe.
The United States responded with tough talk of its own, as Defense Secretary William S. Cohen warned Iraq not to take "any kind of aggressive action" against its neighbors. The dispute involving Iraq, Kuwait and the United States has stirred worries within the American oil market that another conflict in the Persian Gulf might limit oil supplies for winter, when they are needed the most worldwide.
But some analysts said Iraq's bellicosity masks a different threat to Middle Eastern oil exports. Rather than invade Kuwait again, Iraq has implied that it is willing to reduce or halt oil exports to apply pressure on the United Nations on the eve of a critical discussion about reparations Iraq must make to Kuwait, said Raad Alkadiri of the Petroleum Finance Company, a consulting group based in Washington. Iraq exports about 2.3 million barrels a day, or about 4 percent of the world's daily consumption.
A United Nations commission on reparations will meet later this month to settle a $15.9 billion claim brought against Iraq by Kuwait. Iraq is slowly rebuilding its economy from the proceeds of moderate sales of oil permitted by United Nations sanctions. According to the Iraqi mission at the United Nations, the crude exports have brought in $31.6 billion since 1996, $9.5 billion of which has gone into a compensation account.
Analysts said Iraq was incensed at the idea of paying such large reparations to Kuwait. Moreover, Iraq fears that if this claim is successful, it will open the gates to others that would collectively ruin the country's economy and Mr. Hussein's regime.
"The votes are there" to compel Iraq to pay $15.9 billion to Kuwait, Mr. Alkadiri said. "So Iraq could suspend oil shipments to pressure the U.N." Iraq would be very upset to see a large amount of its revenues go to Kuwait, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "COMMODITIES" tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since April 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); FUTURES (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BANERJEE, NEELA SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



442 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Cohen Warns Indonesians To Disband Timor Militias

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen warned Indonesia today that this troubled country could face severe diplomatic and economic reprisals if it did not disband militia groups accused of killings and of causing havoc in the divided island of Timor.
In meetings here today with President Abdurrahman Wahid and other top officials, Mr. Cohen expressed grave disappointment that Indonesia had failed to disarm the pro-Jakarta militia that is accused of killing three unarmed United Nations aid workers, including an American, on Sept. 6 in West Timor. 
 Indonesia promised to move quickly to bring those responsible for the killings to justice. No arrests have been made, and none of the police officers and Indonesian military responsible for the security of the United Nations workers have been disciplined.
"Failure to do so will have consequences for Jakarta's relations with the international community, and could jeopardize continued economic assistance to Indonesia," Mr. Cohen said. "Indonesia faces a momentous decision."
Indonesia has been plagued by widespread violence in the last year, as it struggles to forge a new democracy after three decades of dictatorship under President Suharto, who stepped down in 1998. But with growing secessionist movements, a faltering economy, a rebellious military and recent bombings in Jakarta, the government has at times seemed overwhelmed by the task before it.
Frustrated that the police have failed to identify a single suspect in a series of bombings here, Mr. Wahid today dismissed the national chief, Gen. Rusdihardjo, and replaced him with his deputy, Lt. Gen. Bimantoro.
Mr. Cohen's remarks were the strongest yet by the United States about the militias, which last year waged a week of killing and rioting across East Timor after residents had overwhelmingly voted for independence in a United Nations-sponsored referendum. The vote freed East Timor from 24 years of harsh occupation by Indonesian troops, and the Indonesian military was accused of creating and supporting the militia groups to destabilize the situation.
Mr. Cohen said he had received assurances from Mr. Wahid and other leaders that the government would move swiftly to disband the militias, which operate on the side of the divided island that is still part of Indonesia. The militia groups are accused of harassing aid workers who are trying to repatriate some of the 120,000 East Timorese refugees who fled to camps in West Timor last year.
Asked what specific actions the United States would take if Indonesia failed to rein in the West Timor militia, Mr. Cohen, who is on a six-nation Asian tour, declined to speculate, but said:
"What takes place in the next few weeks will determine what the response will be. There cannot be delays or deferrals or in any way to seek to stretch this out. This is something that must be addressed in the immediate future."
But the Indonesian defense minister, Mohammad Mahfud Mahmodin, told reporters after meeting Mr. Cohen that Washington's decision to end military ties with Indonesia had deprived the Indonesian military of equipment that it needs to subdue the Timorese militias.
The United States ended military assistance to Indonesia after the East Timor rampage.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, on a six-nation tour, reviewing an honor guard yesterday as he arrived at the Defense Ministry in Jakarta. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; TIMOR-LESTE (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFUGEES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); RIOTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); REFERENDUMS (63%); 

PERSON: WAHID, ABDURRAHMAN (PRES); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); SIMS, CALVIN WILLIAM S COHEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



443 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Deal For Skyscraper At Former Site Of Alexander's

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
A deal has tentatively been struck that would allow a 75-story skyscraper to be built in one of Manhattan's most valuable holes in the ground, the long-vacant and foreboding site of the old Alexander's department store at Lexington Avenue and 59th Street.
After two years of stop-and-go negotiations, Bloomberg, the financial information services company, has agreed in principle to be the anchor tenant for the proposed 1.3-million-square-foot tower, which would be taller than the Trump World Tower going up near the United Nations, executives on both sides of the negotiations said. 
 If a final deal is reached in the coming weeks, Bloomberg would move its headquarters and hundreds of employees one block from Park Avenue to a $400 million tower that is to be built on the Lexington Avenue site. A deal with Bloomberg, which would take about 450,000 square feet of space, would enable construction to begin on the long-awaited project by the developer Steven Roth.
The skyscraper would soar 900 feet, about 150 feet higher than the tallest tower in the Time Warner Center project at Columbus Circle that is being built by Stephen M. Ross, and 50 feet taller than Donald J. Trump's building, which is going up on First Avenue between 47th and 48th Streets.
Mr. Trump took comfort in the fact that he could still claim to have the tallest all-residential tower in the world.
The tower proposed by Mr. Roth, the chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, would mix office space with expensive retail stores, a five-star hotel and what real estate brokers are calling 200 superluxury condominiums.
Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Vornado Realty Trust, declined to comment, as did Chris Taylor, a spokeswoman for Bloomberg, and their broker, Barry Gossin, chief executive of Newmark & Company.
But executives from both sides, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that there was a breakthrough at a meeting on Friday.
"They seem to have come to terms," said one person who works with Vornado. "It's clearly been going on for a long time."
Cesar Pelli, the architect who designed the world's tallest buildings, the Petronas Towers in Malaysia, is finishing plans for the skyscraper on what is now a deep two-acre hole surrounded by a blue construction fence across the street from Bloomingdale's. Alexander's closed in 1992, and the hulking department store was demolished last year.
Local residents, who have spent the last year fighting Mr. Trump's project near the United Nations, were not enthusiastic about yet another huge building going up in the neighborhood.
Mr. Roth's tower, like Trump World Tower, is an as-of-right building that does not require zoning variances or city approval.
"We always knew it was going to be a mega-building," said Edward Rubin, a member of the local community board. "But we've gotten a little numb after the Trump building. These are two examples of what happens when you don't have the right zoning controls in place."
Mr. Roth's 200 condominiums, on the 28th through 75th floors, would compete directly with the 225 superluxury condominiums at Time Warner Center. The apartments in both buildings would sell for more than three times the average condominium price today: $2,000 a square foot, or $6 million for a 3,000-square-foot apartment.
It would be a dramatic turnabout for the vacant site, which sat like a gray hulk in one of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the country, much to the dismay of its neighbors. Mr. Roth has long wanted to build his own major skyscraper there, but for one reason or another, he had failed to strike a deal over the years with a string of blue-chip tenants, including Sotheby's, Christie's and Ritz-Carlton.
The pending deal with Bloomberg nearly fell apart in July, said one person involved in the negotiations, when Mr. Roth tried to increase what the company thought was an already exorbitant rent.
"Steve is a very hard guy to make a deal with," he said. "He wants to get every ounce of blood. You can't live that way."
The tactic also fueled the opposition of one of Bloomberg's financial advisers, who had not favored the Vornado project. But, two executives said, Michael Bloomberg, chairman of the company he founded, was determined to close a deal at what he thought would be a signature, if expensive, skyscraper.
In a compromise of sorts, Bloomberg decided recently to take more space in the building, but at the agreed-upon rent, nearly $70 a square foot. The asking rent in Midtown today is $61 a square foot.
"This was never about economics," said one top real estate broker who knows Mr. Bloomberg.
A deal with Bloomberg would bring to an end a long travail for Mr. Roth, the irascible one-time suburban shopping strip king who has become a major commercial landlord in Manhattan. He gained control of the ailing Alexander's in 1991, killing the department store chain in favor of the real estate beneath the buildings.
In the early 1990's, Mr. Roth tried to find a partner among the city's real estate families, but they found his complex financing plan too exotic.
He spent nearly two years negotiating with A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's, about building a new home for the auction house with an apartment tower above it. As his plans evolved, Mr. Roth dropped Sotheby's in favor of its biggest rival, Christie's. Frustrated with Mr. Roth, Christie's ultimately moved to Rockefeller Center.
Mr. Roth eventually opened negotiations with Bloomberg and hired his fourth architect for the project. Earlier this year, the dormant site came alive when Mr. Roth started pouring the foundation for a skyscraper to try to beat the deadline for a proposed zoning change that would have permitted a building of only half the height he wanted.
But Mr. Roth's talks with Bloomberg dragged on as the terms seemed to shift almost daily.
In June, Mr. Roth seemed to be sending a bare-knuckled message to Bloomberg to accept his deal or else, when he filed preliminary plans for the tower with the City Buildings Department.
The plans detailed only four floors of office space, instead of the six that Bloomberg needed. According to those who know him, Mr. Roth delighted in saying that in New York's booming real estate market, the site gained in value every day he failed to build anything.
But it now appears that the two sides are striking a deal.
"He's taken the gun out of his holster," said one investment banker who knows Mr. Roth well. "Now he's got to pull the trigger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bloomberg has agreed in principle to become the anchor tenant for the proposed 75-story tower at a vacant lot at Lexington Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of Manhattan highlighting former Alexander's site: A 1.3-million-square-foot tower may rise from a long-vacant site. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (91%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST; BLOOMINGDALE'S; BLOOMBERG LP VORNADO REALTY TRUST (91%); BGC PARTNERS INC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: VORNADO REALTY TRUST; BLOOMINGDALE'S; BLOOMBERG LP UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOTELS AND MOTELS REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (86%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ZONING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; ROTH, STEVEN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL STEVEN ROTH (87%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



444 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
2 Time Warner Mergers Facing Peril in Europe

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Antitrust regulators at the European Commission are threatening to block the $165 billion merger of Time Warner and America Online, as both sides prepare to negotiate a possible settlement over the next week.
European officials in Brussels have drawn up proposed rejection language, according to a person close to the discussions, arguing that the merger could choke off competition in the distribution of music and entertainment over the Internet. 
 The move by the European Commission, the day-to-day administrative arm of the European Union, is to a great extent procedural and the basis for the bargaining that is expected to take place. People on both sides have made it clear that they are ready to talk.
But the commission's threat to block the merger is not just a negotiating strategy. By forbidding combinations of European businesses, the commission has the power to effectively stop big corporate deals even if the parent companies are not European. On previous occasions, including mergers of two American companies, European regulators have used that power to make companies divest themselves of businesses or change their conduct.
In an antitrust review related to the Time Warner-AOL deal, European officials are coaxing concessions in the merger proposed between Time Warner and EMI, the big British music distributor.
EMI executives said today that they would offer proposals to the commission on Tuesday, though they refused to say what compromises they had in mind.
Amelia Torres, a European spokeswoman on competition issues, would not confirm that officials had proposed a rejection of the AOL deal.
But she said it was "normal" to recommend that a merger be prohibited "when you are in the second phase of an inquiry and when the companies are not forthcoming in addressing the concerns."
Last week, European officials circulated a similar draft rejection of the merger between Time Warner and EMI. Among other things, they are concerned that the EMI deal will reduce the number of major music distributors worldwide to four companies from five now.
With AOL and Time Warner, officials are worried that the combined companies' store of entertainment programming and access to online customers will give them unparalleled bargaining power with both producers and consumers.
The AOL merger is related to the EMI deal in European minds because AOL has its own agreement to distribute music from the Bertelsmann Music Group.
European officials are already hostile to a merger that would unite EMI with Warner Music. They are even less happy about adding Bertelsmann to the mix.
In a joint statement today, AOL and Time Warner insisted that they remained confident about winning approval for their deal. "This is a normal part of the process with the E.U.," the companies said. "We are totally comfortable with where we are at this stage of the negotiations. We have made excellent progress and are confident the talks will conclude successfully. As we have said, we are on track to close in the fall."
Investors seemed unfazed by the European Commission's threat. The shares of both companies rose on the New York Stock Exchange today, with Time Warner up $1.44 to close at $81.25, and AOL rising 41 cents to $55.56.
The Federal Trade Commission in Washington is also skeptical about the Time Warner-AOL deal, but its concerns differ from those in Europe. American officials are primarily worried about the ability of America Online's rivals to gain access on Time Warner's cable television networks as cable systems are more heavily used as high-speed links to the Internet from individual homes.
The two companies have pledged to provide open access, and have argued that is in their interest to carry all popular content providers on their networks.
But other media companies, led by Walt Disney, contend that the merger would further strengthen what Disney executives call the "walled garden" of AOL's proprietary part of the Internet.
European officials are primarily worried about the overwhelming power the companies could have through the linking of three of the world's five big music distributors -- EMI, Warner and Bertelsmann.
The European Commission is required to issue a final decision on the EMI merger by Oct. 18 and on the AOL deal by Oct. 24. Under the commission's rules, EMI must submit proposed remedies on antitrust concerns by Tuesday and AOL before next Monday.
Mario Monti, the European commissioner for competition, has already prevented several big mergers. Earlier this summer, he blocked the combination of WorldCom and Sprint. In March, he stopped the proposed $7 billion merger between Sweden's two big truck manufacturers, Scania and Volvo. And the same month, he blocked the merger of three major aluminum companies.
Of the deals involving Time Warner, many experts think that the one with EMI faces the tougher resistance, because European officials seem intent on forcing EMI or Warner to sell some important record labels.
AOL executives have suggested ways of limiting their agreement with Bertelsmann Music, though the proposals so far have not impressed European officials. But if the Europeans block the deal with EMI, AOL executives think that their marketing link with Bertelsmann's music arm will appear less threatening to competition. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION; TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; EMI GROUP PLC; BERTELSMANN MUSIC GROUP; WARNER MUSIC GROUP EMI GROUP LTD (84%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (80%); AOL INC (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION; TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; EMI GROUP PLC; BERTELSMANN MUSIC GROUP; WARNER MUSIC GROUP EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; MUSIC; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); MERGERS (91%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); DIVESTITURES (68%); 

PERSON: ;ANDREWS, EDMUND L CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



445 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Let Candidates Do the Math On Education

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WITH education supposed to be the crucial issue, both New York candidates for the Senate are busy visiting schools and promising large sums of money. The figures sound impressive, but it might be useful if the candidates paused at the schools' blackboards long enough to work on a few problems:
Rick, a candidate for United States Senate, has proposed a total of $98 billion in new federal spending on education over the next decade. His opponent, Hillary, has proposed a total of $130 billion. 
 If there are 69 million students in America from kindergarten through university level, how much does each candidate propose to spend on each student per year?
If Rick fulfills his promises, the government will spend a grand total of $142.02 per year more on each student. Hillary's proposals would mean an additional $46.39. That will probably not loom large to anyone who has paid a tuition bill.
It's not that Rick Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton are fiscal conservatives. They're proposing hefty budget increases. But the federal government provides a mere 9 percent of the money spent on education in America, so the increases don't make much difference. National politicians love to talk about schools, but the bills are paid by parents and local and state governments.
The average New Yorker sends $5,676 to Washington in taxes each year. Washington sends $4,840 back in spending programs. If there are 18 million New Yorkers, how much are they losing? And is there any reason they would want to give Washington another excuse to spend their money elsewhere?
In all, the state gets back $15 billion less than it sends to Washington each year, as computed by Jay H. Walder and Herman B. Leonard of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. New Yorkers pay above-average taxes and get below-average returns, so on the whole they would be better off with tax cuts than with new spending programs.
But the state doesn't do badly in all areas. While New York ranks 48th in its per capita share of the military budget, it benefits from programs aimed at poor people. Because of its high poverty rate, it ranks first among states in its per capita payments from welfare programs, and it also does relatively well on education programs aimed primarily at the poor.
When it comes to overall federal spending on education, New York gets the 16th-highest per capita share, according to calculations by Dr. Walder. So there's something to be said for the enthusiasm of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio: if Washington is going to spend money, New York is better off having the money spent on education than on most other things.
BUT while New York is getting a little more than its share of the education pot, you have to remember who filled the pot. New York ranks 13th in the per capita share of taxes paid. So even when Congress sends some educational dollars this way, New York is essentially just getting back its own money, minus a few expenses in Washington.
Still, breaking even isn't bad, especially for city dwellers who look to Washington for redressing economic inequalities. Using federal tax collectors can be the most effective way to transfer money from affluent suburbanites to inner-city students, as New York City officials have found after fighting losing battles in Albany to redistribute the suburbs' wealth.
"The city schools often fare better in Washington than in Albany," said Stephen Allinger, the executive director of the office of intergovernmental affairs for the city Board of Education. "Some of the federal programs aren't fair to New York, but in general federal aid is far more focused on need than state aid is."
In theory, then, New York City could benefit if Mr. Lazio or Mrs. Clinton persuaded Congress to shift spending to education from the many programs that enrich other states. But that will be hard to do, given the most stubborn math problem of all.
The 1.4 million inhabitants of North Dakota and South Dakota pay a total of $6 billion in annual federal taxes. The 18.2 million inhabitants of New York pay $103 billion. Suppose the money is pooled and stacked on a table in a Senate committee room. New York's two senators want to spend it on education. The four senators from the Dakotas want to spend it on agricultural assistance.
What are the odds that wheat farmers will be driving new John Deere tractors next spring? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL AID (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); POVERTY RATES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); RANKINGS (67%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



446 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Sets a Record In the Region

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
Private employment and job creation in the New York region hit an all-time high in 1999, surpassing the national rate of job growth for the first time in nearly two decades, according to an annual economic study by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The findings, to be released today, are surprising because the region has lagged behind the nation -- and behind many other areas of the country -- in most economic indexes during the boom of the 1990's. But in posting a growth rate of 2.8 percent in private jobs last year, the New York region surpassed the national average -- 2.4 percent in 1999 -- for the first time since 1983. And the report said the trend was expected to continue through this year. 
 While most of the new hiring came in the region's dominant service sector, including support jobs in industries like finance, advertising and technology, last year's growth was more diversified than that of past years, with significant gains in construction, retail and wholesaling, and securities.
The Port Authority report also noted that with the most recent surge of new jobs, the region had finally managed to make up for the 600,000 jobs it lost in the recession of 1989-92. Job creation in the years since thenmade the New York region No. 3 last year among the 10 most populous metropolitan areas, behind Atlanta and Dallas-Fort Worth, in the rate of job growth, and No. 1 in the number of new jobs created.
"The New York-New Jersey region closed out the 20th century with an economic boom," Robert E. Boyle, executive director of the Port Authority, said yesterday.
Another reason the findings are notable is the fact that job creation is usually driven by population growth, which has plodded in the New York region and in the rest of the Northeast. Eugene Spruck, the chief economist for the Port Authority, noted that the New York region averages an annual population growth of 0.3 percent, compared with a national average of 1 percent.
"Generally you can't expect this region to have the population growth of other areas," Mr. Spruck said, "and so that is why this development is so notable."
He said the 17-county region examined in the report had benefited as a leader in the areas where American job growth has been strongest: finance, construction, new technology and the Internet.
Another recent report on New York City seems to echo the Port Authority study. The city comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, noted in a report released last month that as of June, New York had enjoyed 30 consecutive quarters of private job growth, surpassing the record of 20 quarters set in the 1980's.
The Port Authority study examined economic indicators in the five boroughs of New York and in Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland Counties. Also included were eight northern New Jersey counties: Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, Morris, Passaic, Somerset and Union.
In raw numbers, the region ended 1999 with 190,300 more jobs than it had in 1998. But more impressive, Mr. Spruck said, is the fact that from 1992, when the recession ended, to 1999, 768,400 jobs were created. The region posted a total of 7.737 million jobs last year, a record and the highest figure since the months before the recession struck in 1989, when there were 7.62 million jobs.
Job growth in 1999 included a 4 percent increase in the service sector; a 2.7 percent increase in Wall Street brokerage firm jobs; a 2 percent in finance, insurance and real estate jobs; and an 8.9 percent surge in construction jobs.
New York City's job growth rate was 2.8 percent in 1999, while the New York suburbs' was 3.5 percent and northern New Jersey's was 1.8 percent.
"This tells me that we are working as a region, economically," said Mr. Spruck, pointing out that much of the business, consulting and support services around Wall Street and the advertising industry were spilling out into suburbs. "There is a lot of county-to-county commuting in addition to city-to-county and county-to-city commuting."
Lewis M. Eisenberg, chairman of the Port Authority, said that because of the strong economy, the agency was accelerating its capital spending to nearly $1 billion in the region's airports, river crossings, rail systems and shipping channels.
While the agency's study did not examine how wages rose or fell in 1999, Mr. Spruck speculated that an overall increase was likely because the region's service sector jobs were "high-value jobs."
There probably were pay increases in low-wage jobs as well, he said, because low unemployment has forced employers to pay more than the minimum wage.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK -- New Jobs, and a New Milestone"
In 1999, the New York-New Jersey region outperformed the nation in private job creation for the first time since 1983.
 
Graph shows the U.S. job creation as opposed to the New York area. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, New York and New Jersey Departments of Labor)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); CITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD EUGENE SPRUCK (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



447 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: WEST'S GOVERNORS BACK CLINTON PLAN FOR FIGHTING FIRES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Governors from Western states that have been devastated by wildfires this summer strongly endorsed a Clinton administration firefighting plan today that would place a new emphasis on prevention and local decision-making.
After a meeting here with Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt and Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, the governors said the proposal would be the first step in helping vast natural forests and grasslands, much of them in the West, avoid the same fate as 6.7 million acres that have been scorched by fires this year, one of the worst years on record. 
 The governors also praised President Clinton for asking Congress in his final budget to support the plan with $2.8 billion, more than double the $1.2 billion that is now allocated for wildland fire programs, even if it took a disastrous fire season to prompt the administration to act.
"We've reached a meeting of the minds, which is remarkable," said Gov. Jim Geringer of Wyoming, referring to a proposal that Mr. Babbitt and Mr. Glickman presented to the president just 10 days ago. "I certainly endorse it."
But even the amount Mr. Clinton is seeking will only go so far. More than half of the additional $1.6 billion requested is needed to repay emergency funds that were tapped for fire-fighting efforts this year.
That would still leave more than $700 million for the states as they develop their individual plans, assuming Congressional approval. Aides to the governors were expected to begin working out details with administration officials this week.
Today's meeting, coming just seven weeks before the November elections, was notable as much for its style as its substance. Five of the six governors who met with the cabinet secretaries are Republicans, including several, like Gov. Marc Racicot of Montana, who have been highly critical of the administration's firefighting policies.
Yet by standing together at the Governor's Mansion here, administration officials supporting Vice President Al Gore and governors with loyalty to the Republican nominee, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, provided a rare picture of bipartisan achievement and civility.
The Republican governors -- Mr. Geringer, Mr. Racicot, Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, Gov. William J. Janklow of South Dakota and Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah -- and the lone Democrat, Gov. John Kitzhaber of Oregon, were unanimous in backing a proposal that would shift many of the decisions regarding the health of forests to locally based state and federal officials, something the Republican governors said they had been insisting upon for years.
"History may show this to be one of the more significant meetings to occur, relating to fire management in the West," Mr. Leavitt said. "These changes will have lots of implications down the line."
The meeting was also significant for what the secretaries and the governors did not talk about. As a ground rule for their talks and impetus for getting the proposal before Congress, they agreed to set aside several issues that divide them, including what role, if any, timber harvesting should play in efforts to maintain the health of a forest.
The group also agreed not to discuss the administration's proposal to set aside an additional 43 million acres of roadless areas, which would effectively mean the land could not be mined or logged.
However, the report to Mr. Clinton explicitly states, "The administration's wildland fire policy does not rely on commercial logging or new road building to reduce fire risks."
Republicans have favored a greater role for logging than have Democrats and many forestry experts, who argue that removing large trees does more to fuel fires than suppress them. Many Republicans also object to setting aside more roadless areas because of the impact it has on resource industries, recreational opportunities and state economies.
But in the context of the administration's proposal, Mr. Racicot said asking how much to log was "the wrong question."
"We have got to get away from tree harvesting and focus on forest health as the issue," Mr. Racicot said.
Mr. Babbitt agreed. "We have to sidestep the temptation to turn this into a political debate about logging and roadless areas," he said. "They are not central to the issue of forest restoration."
The proposal was developed as a blueprint for how to prevent the kinds of wildfires that have burned so much of the West this summer. As Mr. Glickman told the governors, the administration is seeking to make firefighting programs more preventive, like national defense, than reactive, like the work of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Past policies have focused on fighting fires long after they have broken out. In recent years, the administration has shifted the emphasis to include controlled fires and preventive clearing. The new plan expands on controlled burns and the thinning of underbrush and shrubs.
But the proposal seemed to be written broadly enough to have a little something for everyone, which could be helpful in an election year. Besides the administration's new strategies, the proposal also underscores the need for coordination among all levels of government. That is an element that the governors especially favor, in that it allows for local officials to make decisions about such things as how to use controlled burns, how much thinning to do and how to protect native wildlife. These have become particularly important decisions in the growing areas throughout the West where people live close to fire-prone forests.
As the proposal says, "Each team will work closely with local communities to identify the best fit for each community."
Environmental groups say they generally favor Mr. Clinton's proposal but only if it holds the line against logging as a tool for fire prevention. Most environmental groups oppose any incursions -- even increased recreational activities that many Americans favor -- that alter the pristine nature of forests.
"This is, in part, the way to go," said Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club. "It's not the whole picture. They still have to add money for controlled burning and for educating people of the role fire plays in controlling the health of a forest."
Both Mr. Babbitt and Mr. Glickman said they believed that the scope of damage caused by fires this year -- 77,893 fires affecting 6.7 million acres so far -- had created enough urgency that Congress would act before the elections.
"This shifts the model of the management of public lands," said Mr. Racicot, who is viewed by many Republicans as a possible successor to Mr. Babbitt in a Bush administration. "We have committed ourselves to actions in the short-term and a long-term study of restoration. This is a moment of opportunity to move the agenda forward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, front, and Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, right, joined six governors to support a new firefighting plan. The governors are, from left, Republicans Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, Jim Geringer of Wyoming, William J. Janklow of South Dakota, Marc Racicot of Montana and Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho. Gov. John Kitzhaber of Oregon, a Democrat, was blocked by Mr. Babbitt. (Associated Press)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); WEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FOREST FIRES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FIRES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BABBITT, BRUCE (SEC); GLICKMAN, DAN (SEC); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL O LEAVITT (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN KITZHABER (59%); AL GORE (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



448 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: United Way Faces Crisis As President Plans to Leave

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Betty S. Beene resigned last night as president of the United Way of America as it grappled with its worst crisis since 1992, when a former president was found to be stealing charitable funds.
Mrs. Beene announced her resignation to the United Way of America's executive board as it met behind closed doors in Alexandria, Va., to deal with a power struggle with a number of large United Ways, including those in San Francisco, Chicago, Boston and Washington. 
 The large local United Ways operate regional centers that process pledges made by workers at major corporations. Processing these payroll gifts, and doling out money to small United Ways as well as individual social service charities, enhanced their power.
Mrs. Beene had championed a national pledge-processing center, which would have undercut regional operations. But the national processing center, built by Cap Gemini Group, Europe's largest information technology consulting firm, failed in its first test last November.
Partly as a result, Mrs. Beene said in June that she would leave her post in December 2001, a move she said was designed to ease friction and encourage support for higher standards among the local United Ways.
In March, leaders of the large local United Ways had sought Mrs. Beene's ouster. But United Way of America directors, meeting in Chicago, unanimously supported her.
Mrs. Beene will now leave on Jan. 31, 11 months early.
"I urge each of us to affirm that the United Way system is more than the sum of its parts," Mrs. Beene wrote in an e-mail letter sent last night to local United Way leaders that was intended to heal the breach. "Our United Way system is a national treasure that can continually renew itself to build a stronger, healthier, more compassionate America, community by community."
Mrs. Beene, 53, had sought to impose national standards on the 1,300 local United Ways that included requiring a rigorous and public self-examination of their effectiveness every few years. The move drew intense opposition from some local United Way organizations. Several of the big United Ways have been holding back part of their dues to the national organization. The United Way in Rochester, the nation's most prosperous, even obtained the legal right to alternative names, like the organization's former brand, the Community Chest, in the event the United Way broke up.
Since 1987, the United Way movement has been losing market share as the number of its donors shrank by more than 20 percent. But since Mrs. Beene was appointed in January 1997, donations had begun to rise faster than the rate of inflation.
For two decades, charity watchers have been raising questions about whether there is a future for the United Way.
Under Mrs. Beene, the United Way had slowly been gaining ground following the 1992 scandal in which one of her predecessors, William V. Aramony, had stolen charitable funds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY CAPGEMINI SA (69%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (96%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (96%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHARITIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MARKET SHARE (60%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BEENE, BETTY S; JOHNSON, DAVID CAY DAVID S JOHNSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



449 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Asks Putin Not to Sell Iran A Laser System

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
The United States has been pressing Russia not to proceed with plans to sell Iran laser technology that Washington says can be used to make fuel for nuclear weapons, according to Administration officials.
Officials said that since July President Clinton has raised the prospective sale of laser technology at least two times in meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin. The most recent occurred this month at the United Nations summit meeting. 
 Mr. Putin assured Mr. Clinton then that Russia would work with Washington to resolve the dispute, officials with knowledge of the discussions said. American officials said they were encouraged by that pledge.
But they also called the response ambiguous, because Russian and American technical advisers disagreed with each other over whether the equipment could help Iran in what Washington contends is a secret program to acquire nuclear bombs.
The administration officials said that Russian sales of nuclear technology to Iran had been a longstanding concern, but that the administration grew particularly worried about the laser equipment after an American private fuel provider abandoned the product, deciding that it was not economically competitive in a civilian nuclear program. And given America's own troubles in trying to develop a cost-efficient laser technology, the United States is said to believe that Iran was more likely to want to make weapons than to develop commercial plants. The United States apparently believes that the technology is too expensive for refining nuclear fuel for commercial uses and is mostly suited to producing fissionable material for bombs. As a result, the United States has been working for three months to dissuade Russia from letting a center associated with the D. V. Efremov Institute of St. Petersburg, part of the Atomic Energy Ministry, from proceeding with a contract to sell the technology to Iran.
Mr. Clinton raised the prospective deal with Mr. Putin in July in private talks at a Group of 8 meeting in Japan. The contract has also been raised by Vice President Al Gore and Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, with their counterparts.
Officials said the issue was also scheduled to be discussed over the weekend by Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who met on Sunday with the Russian atomic energy minister, Yevgeny O. Adamov, at a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency. That organization helps states that rule out nuclear weapons and monitors their civilian nuclear centers to ensure that they are not being used for military purposes.
American allegations that Russia provides critical technology to Iran has roiled their relations for years. American intelligence agencies have long believed that Iran has a secret program to develop nuclear weapons, as well as biological and chemical weapons, dating from the rule of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, which ended with the 1979 revolution. Given its ample oil and gas resources, Iran's desire to generate electricity with nuclear power, the analysts argued, was automatically seen as suspicious.
Russian nuclear contacts with Tehran have expanded since 1995, when cash-strapped Moscow signed a contract with Iran to complete the Bushehr nuclear power station, which its German builders abandoned in 1979, at the onset of the revolution. Despite pressure by the Clinton administration and sanctions by Congress, which halved foreign aid to Russia's central government in the last two years, Russia has refused to abandon the project.
American officials reportedly do not regard Bushehr as a source of nuclear material that could be diverted to a bomb-making program. But the administration apparently fears that the project will train an entire generation of Iranian physicists and engineers in nuclear technologies, thus enhancing the nuclear scientific base, including any program to develop nuclear weapons.
Russian and Iranian officials argue that Iran has ruled out nuclear weapons and has put the Bushehr plant under the international agency's rules and safeguards.
Russia has refused to forgo revenue from Bushehr and future reactor sales, each of which could run up to $1 billion. But former President Boris N. Yeltsin pledged not to expand nuclear cooperation with Iran beyond Bushehr, which plans up to four reactor and turbine units.
Last spring, however, the United States learned that the Science and Technology Center of Microtechnology, a unit of the Efremov Institute, had signed a contract to provide the laser equipment to Iran. Separating isotopes is costly, intensive in time and energy and essential to making nuclear bombs or fuel for light water civilian reactors to generate electrical power.
To make a nuclear bomb or reactor fuel, uranium 235, whose atoms are used in chain reactions, has to be separated from the dominant uranium 238 isotope. The United States uses gaseous diffusion. Some Europeans and Russia use centrifuge technology to separate the U-235 from U-238, which is not good for making weapons.
The United States has developed at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory a third method, laser isotope separation, that can be used to separate fissile isotopes from both uranium and plutonium, both of which can be used in nuclear bombs.
The United States also had an extensive program to develop the laser isotope separation technology, known as Atomic Vapor Laser Isotope Separation, or Avlis, for commercial purposes. It hoped that Avlis reactor fuel could be enriched with one-tenth as much electricity, a boon to the nuclear power industry.
But after having invested almost $2 billion in the technology, the United States Enrichment Corporation, America's privatized nuclear fuel provider, abandoned the technology last year, saying the method was too expensive to commercialize and would probably always be so.
With that experience, Washington reacted with alarm to intelligence reports from multiple sources indicating that Iran was trying to buy such technology from Russia.
That is only the latest point of tension between Russia and the United States in terms of Iran.
In February, Russia promised to stop making plutonium out of fuel from its civilian power reactors as part of a $100 million joint research and aid package from Washington. The administration put a condition on the part of the package most attractive to Moscow, namely the $25 million for joint research into new reactors. Washington insisted that Russia had to stop all new sales and transfers of nuclear technology to Iran that could be used in a nuclear weapons program.
But Mr. Adamov, the atomic energy minister, has said since then that Russia would not stop competing to sell light water power reactors to Iran.
The Russian Foreign Ministry declined to comment today on the dispute. A spokesman for Mr. Adamov said he was traveling and could not answer questions.
A spokesman for the Iranian mission to the United Nations said Iran's cooperation with Russia posed "no threat of proliferation." Iran "does not seek a nuclear weapon and has exercised utmost transparency with regard to its program," he said.
But the spokesman added, "We do not accept any country's deciding in an arbitrary manner what type of peaceful technology we can or cannot have."
As a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Iran was "entitled" to technology "for peaceful purposes," the spokesman said.
"If the U.S. has any complaints," he added, "the proper forum is the I.A.E.A."
Administration officials said Washington and Moscow would continue talks. Otherwise Washington could decide to reduce the more than $250 million a year that the Energy Department gives Russia to support its hard-pressed nuclear sector and secure its arsenal from theft and accident.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN (58%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

COMPANY: D V EFREMOV SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR ELECTROPHYSICAL APPARAT US (54%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN (58%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; ATOMIC WEAPONS; LASER (LIGHT AMPLIFICATION BY STIMULATED EMISSION OF RADIATION); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC ENERGY LASERS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); AL GORE (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



450 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Says Plan on Taxes Would Aid 2-Job Parents

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush began his bid today to gain the allegiance of the middle class, arguing that his tax-cut plan would relieve the pressure on parents who were forced to hold more than one job to make ends meet.
Mr. Bush used the issue of tax cuts to open a six-day, nine-state drive to showcase proposals that his campaign said would help middle-income Americans from "cradle to grave." His first stop was in President Clinton's home state of Arkansas, which polls show to be a tossup. 
 In a line he repeated throughout the day, Mr. Bush said his plan for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over the next decade would give tax relief to all Americans while Vice President Al Gore's proposal for $500 billion in "targeted" tax cuts would leave out millions of taxpayers.
"My plan gives people options, not orders," Mr. Bush said, adding that "there's a lot of fine print" in Mr. Gore's plan.
"It's so targeted that it misses the target," Mr. Bush said. His drive to court the middle class came as opinion polls showed Mr. Gore edging ahead in the presidential race, making inroads with voters in households earning $50,000 to $75,000 a year and also making gains with women.
Hoping to stem Mr. Gore's advance, Mr. Bush has put a new focus on fighting Mr. Gore head to head on the issues. At a Catholic hospital in Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Bush said it was an "important week in this campaign, a week that speaks to the aspirations and hopes of middle-class families all across the country."
His running mate, Dick Cheney, and his aides continued efforts today to hammer away at Mr. Gore's credibility. Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's communications director, distributed an article from The Boston Globe that challenged Mr. Gore's assertions that his mother-in-law paid nearly three times as much for the same arthritis medicine that was used by his ailing dog Shiloh.
The article said that the figures Mr. Gore used came from a House Democratic study and that Mr. Gore's aides could not say for sure whether his mother-in-law and dog actually took the drug, Lodine.
Ms. Hughes noted that reporters had focused on how Mr. Bush sometimes mangles words, and said, "This is not a case of mispronunciation. This is a case of direct misstatement of facts."
Kym Spell, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gore, called the Bush campaign's focus on the article, "the latest sign the Bush-Cheney ticket is very, very desperate." And she said the campaign had verified that both Mr. Gore's mother-in-law and dog had used the same drug.
Despite Mr. Bush's desire to focus on issues, he also made it clear that he would continue to raise questions about the vice president's character and credibility.
"I would rather fight the fight on issues and on philosophy," Mr. Bush said in an interview with Fox News, "but I'm not going to squander the opportunity. I will not let this man distance himself from the previous administration."
His aides said that in large measure, his drive this week was focused on women. While Democrats in recent campaigns have done better among women than Republicans, Mr. Bush had made headway earlier this year by stressing education.
But the traditional "gender gap" has reopened. Ms. Hughes said the gap had occurred because Mr. Gore had "misrepresented" the governor's record and "that also he's managed to unfortunately muddy the waters on the issue of education."
Mr. Bush toured the maternity ward at St. Vincent Doctors Hospital in Little Rock at his first stop today and delivered his speech standing next to two families with babies. Later this week Mr. Bush will appear on Oprah Winfrey's syndicated television program in Chicago and on the Regis Philbin show, both programs that appeal to women.
The governor's wife, Laura, was campaigning with him today. Asked about her husband by an audience member in Little Rock, Ark., she said, "his best character quality is his good heart." "I see that every day in the way he relates to our children, to our pets even," Mrs. Bush said.
Mr. Gore also kept up his courtship of women today, talking about health care in Las Vegas.
In a speech at the University of Nevada, Mr. Gore said: "The issue today is whether or not we will have a president who stands up and fights for families who need health care, for the women who need health care, for the children, all of whom should have health care, and against the H.M.O.'s and insurance companies that are always standing in the way!"
He also spoke to health care workers at the university and was joined by the tennis star Andre Agassi, whose mother and sister have been diagnosed with breast cancer.
Mr. Bush's emphasis on the financial problems of the middle class seems to draw inspiration from the success of Mr. Gore's recent appeals.
Nearly two weeks ago, Mr. Gore released an economic blueprint with broad social goals including eliminating the national debt, increasing personal savings and homeownership and reducing poverty.
The Bush campaign countered with a 16-page booklet, "Blueprint for the Middle Class," which summarizes Mr. Bush's domestic agenda. Mr. Bush held the pamphlet aloft. "This pamphlet here outlines exactly what I'm talking about," he said.
Later in in Kansas City, Mo.,, he credited Ronald Reagan for the current economic expansion saying the "growth of today is occurring because of the tax cuts of the 1980's."
Mr. Bush told Fox News in the interview that he would speed up tax cuts in a recession.
"I'm from the school of thought that it's important during a recession to give people their money back faster," he said. "That may cause us to run a short-term deficit but the fundamental question is how to cause the economy to grow."
He said that middle-class families were suffering from a time crunch. "The issue facing America today is that many of our middle-class families work three jobs: his, hers and the joint responsibility of raising children," he said.
"I strongly believe that the tax burden on American families makes it harder for families to realize their responsibilities, to do their duties," he said.
Tonight, Mr. Bush flew here and was honored by the local Fraternal Order of Police. In the group's union hall, Mr. Bush kneeled and held a microphone for Jim Mullen, a former police officer who was shot and paralyzed from the neck down in 1996 and is now in a wheelchair.
Mr. Mullen had trouble speaking, but he gasped out praise for the governor. When he finished, Mr. Bush leaned over and kissed him on the forehead.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush, campaigning yesterday in Kansas City, Mo., said his tax cut proposals would help the middle class from "cradle to grave." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION TAX RELIEF (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FAMILY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); DOGS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



451 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Day 3 of Los Angeles Transit Strike Is a Work-Day Headache for Poorest Angelenos

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Compton Chester stood on Wilshire Boulevard, squinting in the morning sun, craning his neck for the bus that never came.
"I don't have a clue what I'm going to do," said Mr. Chester, a 29-year-old office assistant for an entertainment company who has no car and depends on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus for his 45-minute commute from Koreatown to West Los Angeles. "I feel foolish standing here. It's like waiting for Godot." 
 Mr. Chester was hardly alone this morning as the third day and the first work day of a countywide public transportation strike left half a million commuters in the nation's second-largest city stranded without regular bus and subway service and dependent on a catch-as-catch-can network of smaller regional bus lines, car pools, taxis and their own tired feet. Transportation officials reported a 5 percent increase in morning rush hour freeway traffic, taxi drivers said business had doubled and streets were clogged.
But unlike New York, for example, where commuters of all socioeconomic groups depend on public transportation and are affected in a strike, Los Angeles has a transit system used primarily by the poorest residents, including the legions of maids, janitors, nannies and service workers who commute from East Los Angeles to the gated enclaves of the Westside. Nearly 70 percent of the system's riders here have household incomes under $15,000 a year, nearly three-quarters of bus riders are black or Hispanic, and half do not have a car, truck or motorcycle in their household.
"It's sad," said Kelly Taylor, 23, a security guard trying to get from midtown to Universal City in the San Fernando Valley to pick up his paycheck at his company's headquarters. He said he might give up and go home, but was worried about how he will get to his job at a Jewish school near Beverly Hills on Tuesday. "I'd have to call my sister and get a ride," he said. "I can't really miss work."
Some 4,300 bus drivers and subway and light rail operators walked off the job Friday night in a strike against the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the regional agency that administers a public transit system covering 1,400 square miles with 2,000 buses, the nation's second-largest fleet after New York's, plus 59 miles of subway and light rail track. About 1,800 mechanics and 650 clerks honored the picket lines. Among the major sticking points was a plan to cut overtime pay for senior drivers and to require some 400 drivers to work four 10-hour days without overtime in an effort to help close a projected operating shortfall of $430 million over the next decade.
"Our members deal with the riders every day and they care about them," said Goldy Norton, a spokesman for the United Transportation Union, which represents the drivers. "But you can't expect that in the greatest boom we've had in years our members should take what amounts to an average 15 percent pay cut."
The average driver earns about $50,000 a year, but $7,000 of that typically comes from overtime and working holidays and weekends, and union officials say the agency's proposed wage increases of 8.1 percent over three years would not make up the difference in lost overtime. The unions have sought 4 percent increases for each of three years.
But Marc Littman, a spokesman for the Transportation Authority, said the agency was willing to drop the overtime proposal if the union came up with other ways for saving an estimated $2 million a year in overtime payments out of the agency's $2.5 billion annual budget. Labor accounts for 70 percent of the agency's costs. The authority also is seeking the right to hire more part-time workers and newer drivers at lower wages, which the union also resists.
"If they don't like our ideas, then come up with some of their own," Mr. Littman said. "They've got to give us something."
Union officials said this morning that they were waiting for a formal invitation from state mediators before resuming talks at a Pasadena hotel. But late today, the transit authority said the union had agreed to return to the bargaining table on Tuesday morning.
The bus and subway system here has about 1.5 million boardings a day, compared with about 6 million a day in the New York City system, and virtually none of it was operating today. The agency had hoped to operate five "lifeline" routes along major arteries using private contractors, but those drivers honored the union picket lines, and the plan fell through. The separate Metro Link regional commuter rail system and bus lines in surrounding cities like Santa Monica were unaffected, and some were providing extra service to help take up the slack.
But most regular riders were out of luck, and Mayor Richard J. Riordan last week implored residents to "open up their hearts" and pick up people stranded on street corners. Caltrans, the state transportation agency, announced that it would suspend highway repair work during peak travel periods for the duration of the strike.
The transit strike is the seventh in Los Angeles in the last 28 years, what is believed to the be the highest number among big city transportation systems. The last was in 1994 and lasted nine days.
Brian Taylor, an associate professor of urban planning and associate director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California at Los Angeles noted that transit ridership in Los Angeles was much higher than public perception would have it.
"It can be almost callous to say, how does a strike affect the regional economy," Professor Taylor said. "The significant effect is obviously on the people who are living at the margin. They're mostly going to make do. In poorer neighborhoods, there are extensive systems of car-sharing and informal taxi service." But, he added, "Unlike auto workers and car owners, here you have an unusual situation where the consumer of the product is on average much poorer than the operator, and there really is a cost to the population served by this system."
Mr. Chester, the commuter, who cannot come close to affording a daily cab ride of $20 each way, said he sympathized with the drivers' concerns to a point.
"It's really put me in a bad situation," he said. "I understand that they have to maintain their standards of living and keep their heads above and whatever. But when something like this happens, it also really shows how close people like me are to the edge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pickets yesterday at West Hollywood, Calif., in a strike by 4,300 bus and rail workers in the Los Angeles area. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "SNAPSHOT: WAITING FOR THE BUS IN LOS ANGELES"
68% of bus riders do not have a valid driver's license.
 
69% of bus driver's rely on mass transit to get to work.
 
68% of bus and rail riders have an income of less than $15,000.
 
20% of Los Angeles County's population has an income of less than $15,000
 
Graph shows the race and ethnicity of MTA bus and rail riders:
22.3% -- Black
12.6% -- White
51.9% -- Hispanic*
8.6 -- Asian
4.6% -- Other
*may be of any race
(Source: Los Angeles County M.T.A)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STRIKES; LABOR URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); STRIKES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); OVERTIME (87%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



452 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Spymaster's Whereabouts Dominates Talk in Peru
There were conflicting reports of the whereabouts and status of Vladimir Montesinos, Peru's intelligence chief. Mr. Montesinos, shown on a videotape last week apparently offering a congressman a bribe, is at the heart of the uproar that has led the president to announce the dismantling of the intelligence service and elections in which he will not seek office. A1
 
Bomber Was C.I.A. Informer
The former chief of Chile's secret police, Gen. Manuel Contreras Sepulveda, who was convicted of masterminding a lethal car bombing in downtown Washington in 1976, was a C.I.A. informer at the time the bombing occurred, documents show. A6 

U.S. Presses Russia on Lasers
The United States was said to be pressing Russia not to proceed with plans to sell Iran laser technology that Washington says can be used to make fuel for nuclear weapons. A1
 
Poor Training for Kosovo Cited
An Army inquiry into reports of American soldiers' abusing of civilians found that many of the peacekeepers had had little training in policing and in dealing with ethnic tensions. A10
 
Warning to Indonesia
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen told Indonesian officials that they faced diplomatic and economic reprisals if the militias causing havoc on Timor were not disbanded. A10
 
World Briefing A8
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
SPORTS D1-7
 
SYDNEY 2000 S1-8
 
China's Long Wait Ends
China won the team gold medal in men's gymnastics, its first in that event in 40 years. In swimming, Pieter van den Hoogenband beat Ian Thorpe in the 200-meter freestyle, and Lenny Krayzelburg won the gold in the 100-meter backstroke. S1
 
NATIONAL A12-23
 
Western Governors Sign On To Federal Wildfire Plan
Governors from Western states devastated by wildfires this summer met with the Interior and Agriculture secretaries and endorsed a Clinton administration firefighting plan to put a new emphasis on prevention and local decision-making. A1
 
Los Angeles Transit Strike
A half-million commuters were left stranded on the third day, and the first work day, of the strike. Officials reported a 5 percent increase in morning rush hour freeway traffic, taxi drivers said business had doubled, and streets were clogged. A12
 
Bush Courts Middle Class
Gov. George W. Bush opened a six-day, nine-state drive to showcase proposals intended to appeal to middle-income Americans, asserting that his tax cut plan would relieve the pressure on parents who work more than one job. A21
Dick Cheney, sharply questioned by voters and students, sought to allay concerns that Governor Bush's proposal to withhold federal funds from low-performing schools and give the money directly to parents would damage public schools. A20 
 
Gore on Women's Health Care
Vice President Al Gore promoted his plans for improving women's health care and accepted the Teamsters' endorsement at their convention. A20
 
Warning on Drug Benefit Plan
The White House expressed alarm at the possibility that Congress might provide money to the states to help low-income elderly people buy prescription drugs, as Gov. George W. Bush has proposed. Administration officials asserted that such an approach would be unworkable. A16
 
United Way President Out
Betty S. Beene resigned as president of the United Way of America. The organization is caught up in a power struggle with a number of large United Ways over a plan championed by Mrs. Beene that would shift the processing of donations away from regional organizations to a national pledge-processing center. A19
 
$80 Million Gift to Museum
A California developer and philanthropist, Kenneth E. Behring, plans to donate $80 million to modernize the National Museum of American History, the largest single donation to the Smithsonian, officials said. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Office Space at a Premium; Rents Reach Record Highs
A severe lack of office space is challenging New York City's ability to retain corporate headquarters and attract new businesses, according to urban planners, executives, developers and political officials. Manhattan landlords have raised rents to record levels, with Midtown rents up nearly 30 percent in the last year. A1
 
Bloomberg Leans Toward Move
Bloomberg, the financial information company, was said to have agreed to become the anchor tenant for a proposed 1.3 million-square-foot, 75-story tower on Lexington Avenue at 59th Street, site of the old Alexander's department store. B1
 
Region's Job Growth Surges
Private employment and job creation in the New York region hit an all-time high in 1999, surpassing the national rate of job growth for the first time in nearly two decades, a Port Authority study found. B1
 
Charitable Donations Disclosed
Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic Senate candidate from New Jersey, said he gave more than $10 million to dozens of charities since last year, with $100,000 going to groups whose leaders or sponsors later endorsed him. He said there was no link between his donations and his campaign. B1
 
Jail Health Care Contract
New York City is negotiating a three-year contract with Prison Health Services of Brentwood, Tenn., to provide health care on Rikers Island. B3
 
Decline in Hand-Washing
A study said 54 percent of women and 43 percent of men washed their hands after using bathrooms in Grand Central and Penn Station. B3
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Government Scientists' Exodus
The technology boom and other factors are leading scientists away from government labs and into the private sector, where they say the rewards are much greater. Administrators fear the quality of government-sponsored research may suffer. A1
 
Mental Effects of Heart Surgery
Doctors say evidence is mounting that a small but significant number of coronary artery-bypass patients suffer cognitive impairment. F1 
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-30
 
Rise in Fatal Tire Crashes
The number of fatal accidents involving Ford Explorers with tire problems more than doubled last year, to 40, after rising steadily since the mid-1990's, a trend that indicates that the overall death toll from defective Firestone tires is higher than previously reported. C1
 
Ford and Continental were said to be discussing with federal regulators plans to replace a Continental tire model that has had tread problems on Lincoln Navigators. C14
 
AOL-Time Warner Deal
European antitrust regulators are threatening to block the $165 billion merger of Time Warner and America Online out of concern for competition in the online distribution of music and entertainment. C1
 
Euro's Fall Cuts U.S. Profits
The euro continued its decline, to 85.46 cents, as the effects of the currency's weakness touched the American corporate landscape, cutting into sales and profits. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B9
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Mr. Bush's new strategy; the shadowy politics of Peru; a ban on assisted suicides; boys of autumn.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (94%); INDONESIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE SERVICES INC (50%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (94%); INDONESIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); ARMIES (75%); LASERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); FIRES (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); GYMNASTICS (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); TAX LAW (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); TAX RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



453 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Remedial Program Refuses to Die;
Revamped SEEK Remains Path for Poor Into CUNY

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Martha Bell remembers bursting into tears when the Board of Regents voted to allow the City University of New York to end remedial instruction for bachelor's degree students.
Such instruction was at the heart of the program for poor students known as SEEK that CUNY started two generations ago to give black and Hispanic students a chance at a college education they could not get under the admission criteria, at a time CUNY was almost entirely white. 
 "That's the end of SEEK," Dr. Bell, who runs Brooklyn College's branch of the program, remembers thinking. "I went round and round on how could we provide the experiences our students desperately need. I thought about retiring. My gut reaction that day was to close up."
She did not resign, nor did her program close up. Instead, after battles on campus and appeals to state legislators and an overhaul of the curriculum, the program has emerged with a new and tougher look. Rather than effectively ending SEEK (which stands for Search for Elevation, Education and Knowledge), the ban on remedial instruction has given the program a new life, when its very reason for being seemed unclear in a university at which more than half of CUNY's students are black or Hispanic, and many are poor and academically unprepared.
As CUNY again tightens admissions to its senior colleges, the program has once again become a way onto campus for poor students who cannot demonstrate their readiness for college-level work.
"We have become the only opportunity in town," Dr. Bell said. "It brings us closer to our original mission of providing access where there wouldn't be any."
What she has done to get around CUNY's ban on remedial instruction is to provide students at Brooklyn, one of the 11 senior college campuses where the program for poor students is offered, with a longer and more intense summer session and more challenging courses for the fall.
In one reading class in August, Nancy Vighetti introduced students to Sophocles' "Antigone." For many, it was strange territory. They stumbled over unfamiliar names (like Eteocles and Polynices, Antigone's brothers), unfamiliar words (like carrion birds that eat dead flesh) and unfamiliar concepts (like stoning someone to death). "They still stone people to death in parts of the world today," Ms. Vighetti said.
The summer session was an academic boot camp that covered many skills the students never picked up in high school. Ms. Vighetti lectured to the students just so they would learn to take notes. She made them keep journals so they would get used to writing.
"In high school, I never read a book, but I had good grades," said Gisele Melendez, an 18-year-old with long pink fingernails from Sheepshead Bay. Referring to Sheepshead Bay High School, she said: "They asked you questions, but questions they answered in class. Here, I have to read the book to have my own ideas."
Many professors prefer to deal with the academically elite, but Ms. Vighetti is one of the corps within CUNY that finds rewards in working with the poorly prepared.
"At a certain point, you can see the light bulbs go on," she said.
Historically, SEEK students were unable to meet the university's standards for entering freshmen when they were admitted, and many were still unable to meet those requirements after a summer of intensive remedial instruction. In previous years, they would simply have taken some additional remedial work without credit in fall and spring semesters.
But the university's new policy said the senior colleges could offer no remedial courses during the regular school year, only tutoring or workshops. To meet the new policy, Dr. Bell shifted more math into the summer because, she said, "There was no way to say that arithmetic and algebra were college-level math."
For university students still weak in reading or writing, the main solution was to put them into compensatory courses that covered college-level texts but more slowly, with more hours of class per week, than regular classes, for the same number of credits.
Learning to read analytically and develop ideas are central themes in Brooklyn College's program. Dr. Bell has developed a remedial program at Brooklyn that has drawn more than $1 million in federal grants and is a model for about a dozen other public and private university campuses.
More than 360 new freshmen entered Brooklyn this fall through the program, roughly double the number last year and more than a quarter of the college's freshman class. (Across CUNY, the number of freshmen in the program rose 1.5 percent, to 2,368, or 17 percent of the freshmen entering the 11 senior colleges.)
To qualify, students must meet criteria for being both economically and educationally disadvantaged. At Brooklyn this year, the average total SAT score for such students was 790, well below the 1,060 average for the freshman class. More than 90 percent of the students came from families with annual incomes below $20,000.
Last year, about 44 percent of the university's SEEK students were Hispanic, 30 percent black, 15 percent Asian and 12 percent white.
Besides free tutoring and counseling throughout college, these students receive $250 a semester to help pay for their books, and their fees are waived. The students are also allowed 10 semesters of financial aid, compared with 8 for other students.
Herman Badillo, the university's chairman, said he had supported the program when it was created in the mid-1960's under an act of the Legislature, several years before open admissions began. But, he added, "I have a sense that it has been a big problem and that it has not been implemented as I intended." Still, he said, he did not intend to shut it down.
One criticism is that students in the program have always graduated at lower rates than other students. According to the most recent data available, 26 percent of students who entered it in 1991 earned a CUNY bachelor's degree within eight years, compared with 44 percent for non-SEEK students. Supporters assert that is because students in the program have started farther behind educationally.
At the Brooklyn program, the students' academic success rates have risen since 1995, when Dr. Bell began to overhaul her program. In 1998, 99 percent of Brooklyn's SEEK students passed the university's proficiency tests in reading and mathematics within a year, up from 84 percent four years earlier. Similarly, 93 percent of these students passed the core curriculum courses they took as freshmen in 1998, up from 72 percent four years earlier.
Although the CUNY colleges have begun to receive stronger students since 1995, as they raise their entrance requirements, Dr. Bell said the educational preparation of the SEEK students had not changed significantly in that period.
Still, the program's reputation as a haven for less prepared students has frightened some families away.
"Some parents call and say they don't want their children in the program because they will be stigmatized," said Nancy Jean-Baptiste, a Brooklyn graduate who was a counselor in the program this summer.
Margarita Eguizabal, a 28-year-old graduate from El Salvador, said many students thought that students in the program were allowed to take easier courses. "They think that SEEK students are getting a free ride, but that's not true," she said.
For most of the students, the starting point is the upgraded summer immersion program. Since 1995, the university has required all SEEK students to attend summer classes. But Dr. Bell now offers them three summer sessions totaling 11 weeks, and many of them attend at least two.
Christine Kessler, who taught Extreme Writing this summer, hoped to demystify essay writing so her 22 students could pass CUNY's essay exam. On the first day of class, she gave them a quick diagnostic spelling test of 50 words followed by tips for improving their spelling.
She was not surprised that many did poorly. The class was like a mini-United Nations. The 22 students came from 15 countries, including Russia, China, the Dominican Republic, Turkey, Nigeria and Haiti.
Ms. Kessler introduced them to mnemonics -- memory aids -- and urged them to look for rhymes, acronyms, pictures and songs to help them remember. Acknowledge, she showed them, was easy if they remembered "the A.C. (air-conditioner) you KNOW goes on the LEDGE." Believe is simple, too, she said, if they remembered "never beLIEve a LIE."
"This is the way students in schools across the United States learn to remember information," she assured them. "The next time you go to your doctors, ask them how they remember the bones in the arm."
In another class, Margaret M. Waters was also starting with basics, even though her students had already passed all of the university's entrance exams. While the students did not need remedial work, she wanted to introduce them to the kind of analytical thinking they would be required to do in September.
The starting text was "Jack and the Beanstalk." Unlike "Antigone" (which they would get to later), there was nothing unfamiliar about the story. But, as Professor Waters showed them, it was a parable with layers of meaning, and she hoped to give them tools they could use to tackle more complex material later.
"Does Jack plan to steal?" she asked. "Is Jack a thief? Or an opportunist?"
One student jumped in with a theory: "All he wanted to do was to make his mother happy. He feels he let her down."
Professor Waters pressed him, "I think you're nicer than I would be."
She read from the text about how Jack was sitting in the attic and suffering. "He was thinking of himself," she said.
"Yeah," the student acknowledged. "He was thinking of himself."
A student near the door embroidered the thought. "He just got plain greedy."
Soon, they were deep into deconstructing text.
By the end of the summer, 150 of the students had still not passed all of the university's entrance requirements, and will receive extra support through workshops and tutoring.
But even the 215 who were ready to plunge into regular freshmen courses, including freshman English and mathematics, will continue to be watched over closely. They will take two of their freshman courses and a counseling seminar together, and Dr. Bell and her colleagues will provide extra support.
"I don't have a magic pill," Dr. Bell said. "If students come in needing reading and writing and maybe math, they can't learn it all overnight."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a summer remedial program, Prof. Margaret M. Waters tried to introduce students to the kind of analytical thinking that would be required at City University. They learned that "Jack and the Beanstalk" was a parable with layers of meaning. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE -- Inside SEEK's Survival"
As financing for SEEK slowly returns...
Graph shows state financing for all CUNY senior colleges, in millions (from 1994-95)
 
...so does its enrollment.
Graph shows number of students in thousands (from 1994-95).
 
SUMMER PROGRAM READING LIST
 
Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave, Written by Himself.
Letter From Birmingham Jail, by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Antigone and Oedipus Rex, by Sophocles
Things Fall Apart, by Chinua Achebe
 
SUGGESTED PERSONAL GOALS
 
I will learn how to demonstrate appropriate college decorum.
I will learn to manage personal finances, loans, financial aid awards.
I will learn to employ good health and safety strategies.
I will begin to value lifelong learning.
I will learn about college organizations and student groups and their functions.
I will learn strategies for balancing work, study, family and fun.
 
SAMPLE SPELLING QUIZ
attendance, efficient, disastrous, foreign, harass, kindergarten, necessary, occur, prejudice, physically, relieve, succeed. (Source: CUNY, Brookly College Summer Program)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BROOKLYN COLLEGE BROOKLYN COLLEGE (78%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BROOKLYN COLLEGE CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; SEEK PROGRAM (SEARCH FOR EDUCATION, ELEVATION AND KNOWLEDGE); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; BELL, MARTHA (DR) NANCY VIGHETTI (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



454 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3306 words

HEADLINE: THE CROWDED CITY;
OFFICE SHORTAGE IMPERILS GROWTH IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Lost in the noisy ebullience over New York City's thriving economy is a problem that some economists and elected leaders say could undermine the city's prosperity and cost thousands of jobs at everything from Internet companies to garment manufacturers.
The problem is a severe lack of office space in Manhattan and the surrounding boroughs. According to a growing number of urban planners, corporate executives, developers and political officials, it is already posing a serious challenge to the city's ability to attract new business and to stop more companies from following the lead of Chase Manhattan Bank, U.S. Trust and more than 20 other companies that have agreed to move across the Hudson. 
 In contrast to the New York of the early 1990's, when companies fled Manhattan amid a gloomy recession and doubts about the city's primacy as a corporate and financial center, New York today suffers from the perils of its success, the experts say. Wall Street is booming. Companies want a New York address once again, and job growth last year edged ahead of the national average for the first time in at least a decade. Page B1.
Yet there is little vacant space available and, despite the demand, little new construction.
As a result, landlords in Manhattan have been able to raise rents to record levels; rents in Midtown rose nearly 30 percent on average over the last year alone.
"We should be growing at a faster rate with a more diverse group of industries that make this their world capital," said Senator Charles E. Schumer. "New York is in great demand by many types of businesses. Unfortunately, with real estate prices so high, we're at risk of losing some of those businesses. And the No. 1 reason is a lack of space."
At the same time, the fabric of the city is being rewoven. Once-dowdy but vibrant industrial areas are being transformed, as advertising agencies and Internet and telecommunications companies plunge into the garment district south of Times Square, the printing district north of TriBeCa and even Long Island City in Queens and southern Brooklyn, pushing rents well beyond what many manufacturers in those areas can afford.
And the psychological chasm that once separated Manhattan from what many considered the backwater New Jersey waterfront has closed. Companies as diverse as John Wiley & Sons, which has been publishing books in Manhattan since Thomas Jefferson was president, and Chase Manhattan Bank, one of the city's financial pillars, decided to move all or part of their operations to New Jersey, where there is room to grow and costs are lower. Each new defection makes the western bank of the Hudson River that much more viable as a corporate haven.
"In the long run, the present market is bad for New York City," said Douglas Durst, who heads one of New York's prominent real estate families. "It's pushing companies outside the city and showing them they don't have to be here."
No economist would dispute the fact that losing companies to New Jersey has quantifiable effects on New York, including a loss of jobs and tax revenues. But some say that taking a wider view of the regional economy, there is little difference if a company is in Lower Manhattan or a mile away in Jersey City, where land and construction costs and taxes are lower. New York, after all, has always functioned as an incubator for new businesses that move to new locations as they grow.
In January, Mr. Schumer formed a panel of corporate executives, state and city officials and urban planners to make recommendations to try to solve the problem. That a senator would seize on a mundane local issue like land use was seen by many urban planners and developers as a rebuke of city and state officials for having failed to do so.
Robert M. Harding, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the Giuliani administration was well aware of the problem. The mayor and City Council recently increased the level of tax breaks and other incentives for companies that leave Manhattan for the other boroughs, a measure that they say makes Queens and Brooklyn more competitive with New Jersey. Joseph B. Rose, director of city planning, is leading an effort to rezone Long Island City and the far West Side of Manhattan to encourage new offices.
"When you outpace the nation in job growth, you're doing something right," Mr. Harding said. "We're exploding at such a record clip that we have to identify areas for development outside of Manhattan."
But until recently, the Giuliani administration relied primarily on offering tax breaks to major corporations -- like Credit Suisse First Boston, Merrill Lynch and Time Warner -- that threaten to move outside Manhattan. Not enough has been done, critics say, to promote areas that have some land available for less expensive back-office development, like the Metrotech Center in downtown Brooklyn or near the Citicorp tower in Long Island City, or to build a transportation network that would make those areas competitive with the New Jersey waterfront. The Queens West complex on the East River, for instance, lacks convenient public transportation to Manhattan.
Although Mayor Giuliani addressed the issue in a speech last January, some corporate executives and relocation advisers say that he has not focused on the problem.
"We haven't had a physical development policy for the city since the Koch administration," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University. "Instead, we're building minor league stadiums on Coney Island and Staten Island and failing to encourage the development of major league office buildings."

A Quick Recovery
From a Glut To a Shortage
The dearth of office space is a relatively new phenomenon for New York. For much of the last decade, the city suffered from a severe hangover from the last real estate boom. The city lost 300,000 jobs during the recession in the early 1990's, leaving many new skyscrapers empty and bankrupt. The average vacancy rate rose to 18 percent in Midtown office buildings, while one out of every four floors sat empty downtown.
In 1995, in response to an outcry from the real estate industry, the Giuliani administration instituted a series of zoning changes and tax incentives in Lower Manhattan that were intended to spur the renovation of old office towers and the conversion of outmoded commercial buildings into apartment houses. The program took hold, and as the economy improved, office space filled up and rents began inching upward.
Wall Street also expanded and tenants once again began looking for space downtown, where rents by comparison were cheaper and space more plentiful. The real estate market there improved so quickly that in 1997, carpenters were putting up walls for apartments at 10 Hanover Square in Lower Manhattan when Goldman, Sachs & Company suddenly leased the entire 22-story building for office space.
But there has been little new construction to ease the pressure, in part because of the memory of the 1980's, when so many speculative buildings, erected without a commitment from tenants, failed. Today, only a handful of lenders are willing to provide construction loans, and they demand that the developer have a major tenant lined up and provide cash up front, say $150 million for a $400 million skyscraper.
The problem is made worse by the scarcity of development sites left in densely packed Manhattan. As a result, only a single major office tower has been completed in the last eight years, the Conde Nast building in Times Square.
As any pedestrian can attest, there are skyscrapers under construction in Midtown for Reuters, Ernst & Young, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Bear Stearns, Random House and Time Warner. Two others are in the planning stages for The New York Times and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. In each case, the towers would primarily be for single tenants and would be built on sites whose development in the 1980's was delayed by the recession.
Most corporate tenants, however, are not big enough to justify a million-square-foot tower. New York developers and executives said that they would have little trouble filling speculative buildings with smaller tenants if only they could find the financing and development sites.
"The memory of unfinished projects and bad loans lingers on," said David Tobin, a director of the Carlton Group, a commercial mortgage banker. "Given what lenders are demanding today, developers are less inclined to build."
Last month, the vacancy rate downtown stood at 5 percent, while the annual asking rent hit $42.73 per square foot, up from a low of $25.57 in 1995, according to Insignia/ESG, a commercial real estate broker. (When adjusted for inflation, the low point was $27.92 in 1997.) In Midtown, the average rent topped $61 per square foot, nearly double the rate seven years ago, and the vacancy rate is only 3.1 percent. For a law firm or a publishing company leasing 400,000 square feet of space, that is a difference of $12 million a year from the rate in 1993.
"This market kind of snuck up on people," said Stephen B. Siegel, president of Insignia/ESG. "I don't think anyone anticipated how strong it was going to be."

A Transformation
Internet Businesses Displace Industries
In the last two years, advertising agencies and Internet and telecommunications companies hunting for cheaper space have pushed into longtime industrial neighborhoods like the garment district, Chinatown, the printing district, Long Island City and even the Brooklyn waterfront from the Brooklyn Bridge south to Sunset Park. Bates North America, an advertising agency, led the charge when it leased a former garment showroom at 498 Seventh Avenue and 37th Street. Screaming Media and Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia took space in the old Starrett-Lehigh factory building on 11th Avenue and 26th Street.
The 70-year-old printing district around Varick, Hudson and Canal Streets has all but disappeared as landlords rent to higher-paying white-collar tenants. More than two dozen garment factory buildings in Chinatown were converted to office and retail space in the last two years. At 150 Lafayette Street in Chinatown, Mad Science, an Internet company, shares a floor with a garment factory. As the jostling for space continues, some Manhattan developers say that the garment and printing districts no longer belong in Manhattan.
But urban planners point out that some of the city's valuable and otherwise viable manufacturing jobs are in jeopardy throughout the city. Peter D. Colahan, president of the Colahan-Saunders Corporation, said that in the nine months since he moved his printing company from Varick Street to Long Island City, he had seen rents around him jump as Internet companies began vying for the same buildings as manufacturers.
"The city has responded to the growth of the dot-coms," said Fred Siegel, a professor of history at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art in Manhattan, "but it hasn't responded to the secondary effects of the dot-coms on other districts."
Manufacturers who pay $8 a square foot in rent cannot compete with the Internet and telecommunications companies willing to pay two or three times that amount.
"Space in the area is getting more difficult to find for manufacturers," Mr. Colahan said, "and more expensive."

The Competition
Lately, New Jersey Seems a Lot Closer
After sitting fallow for much of the 1990's, the New Jersey waterfront has become a genuine alternative for New York corporations. Since July 1998, more than 20 major corporations have signed deals to move some of their operations from New York to more than 5.5 million square feet of space in Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken -- the equivalent in square feet of more than half the entire World Trade Center.
The tenants include U.S. Trust, the Cigna insurance company, Lord, Abbett & Company and the Insurance Services Office. Goldman, Sachs & Company and Merrill Lynch have bought major development sites at the former Colgate toothpaste factory in Jersey City.
William J. Pesce, the chief executive of Wiley, who signed a deal last month to move the 197-year-old publishing company and 900 employees to Hoboken, said the company was loath to cut its deep New York roots when it began looking two years ago. It was already paying top dollar to rent its building at Third Avenue and 40th Street and was facing a steep rent increase in 2003.
Wiley was prospering, Mr. Pesce said, but the company wanted to improve its profit margins and invest in people and technology.
He said he rejected a move to Baltimore, which would have cut his real estate costs by two-thirds but cost him many employees. He found a rare block of space in a factory near the Holland Tunnel, but there was little room to grow.
So after some sharp debate among the directors, Wiley decided that the company's best choice was to move to a new building in Hoboken that would allow the publisher to nearly double its space and save money. Wiley expects to move in late 2002.
Recently, Chase Manhattan made a similar decision, agreeing to move about 2,500 employees from 13 floors at 55 Water Street in Lower Manhattan to a building that the developer Samuel J. LeFrak is building at his 600-acre Newport complex in Jersey City. Unlike Wiley, Chase was looking for a quick, low-cost alternative.
According to those involved in the search, Chase considered a new tower at Queens West, a project in Long Island City sponsored by the city, the state and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. But the executives said it was unclear when commercial development would begin at that site, which they thought did not have good transportation links to Manhattan. But as with Wiley, city officials did not urge the bank to reconsider Queens West, or to expand at Metrotech in Brooklyn, where Chase has back-office operations and 4,500 employees, though they did offer a tax break if the employees remained in New York.
New Jersey officials were only too happy to give Chase an even more generous set of subsidies. More important, said executives involved in the decision, Mr. LeFrak offered to build the bank a new building within 18 months, a startlingly brief time by Manhattan standards.
"The Wiley and Chase deals are as much a product of the lack of space in New York as pure price," said Stephen Siegel of Insignia/ESG.
During the 1980's, New Jersey tried to lure New York financial companies to the waterfront in Jersey City by building PATH train and ferry links to Manhattan and offering a broad array of tax breaks. New York officials condemned the effort as poaching, and few companies took the bait. But many investment banks routinely threatened to move to New Jersey before extracting tax incentives from New York.
In the last two years, however, the New Jersey waterfront has seemed a lot closer for corporations looking for office space, especially since it is as much as 30 percent cheaper. Potential sites in Queens and Brooklyn "seemed out of the way and ill located," said one lawyer who has advised dozens of corporations on relocation issues.
"One reason we chose Jersey City over a more remote location is that it is accessible to people who live in New York City," said Tom Block, a senior vice president for government affairs at Chase Manhattan, which has kept its headquarters and thousands of employees in New York. "It would have taken six years to renovate our space at 55 Water Street versus building a state-of-the-art building in Jersey City in 18 months."
It is an open question whether New York could have held on to the Chase jobs. But corporate executives, urban planners and some city officials say that the city's fast-growing Internet ventures and other companies may stay and expand if there are alternatives in New York. Otherwise, they said, New York could become the equivalent of a one-crop economy in which the city's fortunes are tied exclusively to the wealthy international financial companies that can afford the rents in Manhattan.
"I think New York City has an opportunity to look at how it's going to sustain the current economic prosperity," said Mr. Pesce. "It would be a shame to lose the diversity of businesses in New York City as a result of our company and others leaving."

The Potential
Steering Developers To Open Territory
Senator Schumer and others have called for a public-private partnership to develop swaths of land for office development through zoning, incentives and condemnation. In addition, they say that the sites need good transportation to Manhattan and high-speed telecommunication links, amenities that would require major government investment. Analysts like Jonathan Bowles of the Center for an Urban Future say that the city also has to develop a policy to deal with manufacturing.
There is also some agreement about where the city might steer new development.
"It's crucial to the city's ongoing prosperity that we identify new growth corridors for commercial activity," said Mr. Rose, director of the city's planning department. "The most obvious locations are Long Island City, downtown Brooklyn and the West Side of Manhattan and parts of Hudson Square," which is the area between West Houston and Canal, west of Varick.
After years of preparation, Mr. Rose said that the city expected to certify a rezoning plan for Long Island City within the next month. The city and state, however, are at odds over development on the West Side of Manhattan and the expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Office development there could also conflict with preparations for the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics. Community advocates are also worried about the effects rezoning would have on existing businesses and neighborhoods.
Barry Gossin, chief executive of Newmark & Company, a real estate company, contends that the city needs to focus on a small number of areas for development rather that taking a scattershot approach. "The city should focus on an area, create a critical mass, and build the infrastructure and attract the restaurants and other amenities that go along with it," he said. "Jersey City has accomplished so much because they have finally achieved critical mass. Brooklyn never did it."
Developers contend that they also need subsidies and tax abatements in order to set rents at competitive levels and to make projects economically viable. But Stephen J. Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, acknowledged that it would be politically difficult to create a major incentive program when the economy is still generating new jobs.
Ron Shiffman, a former city planning commissioner, and Adam Friedman, executive director of the New York Industrial Retention Network, an advocacy group, warn that any effort to encourage commercial development in Long Island City or Brooklyn could also pose enormous problems for manufacturers.
"We have to be careful that in looking to retain the Wileys we don't push out manufacturers who are quite viable and provide important jobs," Mr. Shiffman said. "The real issue is how we maintain a healthy balance in the kind of jobs the city needs and ensure that physical improvements are distributed equitably throughout the city."
Despite the renewed focus on what many are calling a commercial space crisis, developers and urban planners say little will happen unless there is a concerted effort on the part of the city's political leaders.
"If they want to provide a place where people can grow in a friendly environment where rents are not as high as Manhattan," said Richard LeFrak, president of the LeFrak Organization, "they have to have the political will to identify specific sites and make them a genuine alternative."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Keith Meyers)(pg. B4)
 
Chart: "ADDING IT UP: SPACE AS A PRECIOUS COMMODITY
Commercial space is becoming harder to find, and the cost of existing space is climbing. As a result, some companies find that their future is outside Manhattan.
 
Percentage of space available has dropped . . .
. . . and what is available is getting more expensive . . .
. . . and so some large companies are heading to New Jersey.
 
Major companies that have moved all or part of their operations from
Manhattan to New Jersey since Jan. 1, 1998.
 
(Graph shows the companies, square feet, and new location.)
John Wiley & Sons -- 400,000 -- Hoboken
Chase Manhattan Bank -- 1,200,000 -- Jersey City
Datek -- 422,000 -- Jersey City
Insurance Services Office -- 393,507 -- Jersey City
National Discount Brokers -- 96,000 -- Jersey City
DLJ Direct -- 144,814 -- Jersey City
American Express -- 225,000 -- Jersey City
U.S. Trust -- 126,435 -- Jersey City
Lord, Abbett -- 150,000 -- Jersey City
Cigna -- 150,000 -- Jersey City
(Source: Insignia/ESG)(pg. B4)
 
Graphs show Availability rate and Average yearly rent per square foot*
in midtown and downtown from 1990-August 2000
*In 2000 dollars. (pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (51%); JWA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (51%); INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (59%); INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (59%); INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; SHORTAGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); BOOK PUBLISHING (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000



455 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 15; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TO BUSINESS;
Killer Toys and Wonder Woman: When a Soft Sell Is a Big Deal

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SMITH; Christopher Smith is a regional reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune in Utah.

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
HIS angular ivory face framed by the upturned collar of a black magician's cape, Gary Norcigian cut a monochromatic figure amid the technicolor of the convention floor. It was as if Grandpa from "The Munsters" somehow wandered onto the set of "The Wizard of Oz."
Mr. Norcigian attracted a small knot of conventiongoers, goatee-wearing software developers with sleepy eyes and overloaded tote bags. Ambushing a bystander, he used the man's wristwatch for an overly dramatic series of sleight-of-hand tricks. Then the crowd dispersed among the exhibits. 
 "The only thing that counts is stopping traffic next to your booth," said Mr. Norcigian, who works dozens of trade shows and conferences each year. "The best traffic-stopper you can get is a female contortionist. People find it perversely interesting and can't resist staring."
No contortionists here, but a cluster of female impersonators wandering among the 4,000 attendees of the conference sponsored by I.B.M. had the same mesmerizing effect. It was an extravaganza that seemed to cross-pollinate graduate-level computer science courses with equal parts hospitality suite and Lollapalooza rock concert.
"I'm here to create visual excitement," said John Gonzales, who was flawlessly dressed as Wonder Woman and handing out coupons for a digital music player giveaway to attendees huddled around steam trays of meatballs. "Honestly, I don't even know what an MP3 player is," he added.
Bungee jumps. Poetry slams. Radio-controlled model car races. Holographic projections of severed heads beckoning passers-by to a booth. This is trench warfare in the "attention economy," where companies vie to win fleeting consideration among software developers who will determine the architecture of electronic commerce.
"Back when the people making purchasing decisions were the chairmen of banks, Wall Street firms, insurance companies, manufacturers, you tried to look like them and be of their culture," said Bob Timpson, who started at I.B.M. more than 30 years ago, when employees were required to wear suit jackets at their desks. "We're doing the same thing now. Today, those decisions are not being made by C.E.O.'s and C.I.O.'s. They are being made down in the depths of organizations by people of this software culture. You have to talk to them where they live, on the Web, and then draw them out to places where they can mingle."
Hence, this "real world" creation of I.B.M.'s software developer Web site, a spectacle-saturated conference highlighting technology from I.B.M. and its business partners at the MGM Grand Hotel unabashedly dubbed "No Limits: Building the Open E-Business Universe." Between training sessions with arcane titles and keynote speeches from techno-dreamers and specialized "evangelists," attendees were treated to rock guitar solos, belly dancers, disco parties, salsa bands, comedians and performance artists decrying computer hardware that "has the life expectancy of wooden stirrers at Starbucks."
"These computer trade shows look nothing like they did five years ago," said Albert Segars, director of the Institute of Technology and Strategic Change at the University of North Carolina.
"They now look more like Cirque du Soleil, with trapeze artists, mimes, magic," Mr. Segars said. "It's all about who can outhype the other, who has the biggest celebrity, who has the coolest giveaways."
In the $84 billion-a-year commercial exhibition business, high technology ranks third among major industries that allocate a large part of their marketing dollars to trade shows and conferences, according to the Center for Exhibition Industry Research in Chicago. At 18 percent, high technology trails health care at 21.3 percent and manufacturing at 18.6 percent. But on the hype meter, high-technology trade shows bury the needle.
But Mr. Segars cautioned that companies hoping to solicit business through gimmicks or attractive "booth bunnies" must be able to deliver more than "vaporware," much-promoted applications that are months or years from release.
"These exhibitors have to retain an underlying theme of credibility because the kids in software development can see right through the smoke and mirrors," he said.
These days, he said, companies are staffing exhibits with people knowledgeable about the products.
"I've noticed the saleswomen now at these shows," Mr. Segars said, "seem to be more like pharmaceutical reps, with an attractiveness or appeal, but lingering behind that is real industry expertise."
As part of a campaign for "relationship acquisition" among software engineers, I.B.M. hired a cultural anthropologist to create psychological profiles of how the fiercely independent developer community thinks.
"They're primarily male, and, because they are smart, as a whole they have paranoid tendencies," said Chris Bahr, who directs I.B.M.'s Developer Works, a Web site that offers software entrepreneurs tools and techniques for creating applications. "They are very hard to fool and almost impossible to market to. If they feel they are being sold to, they are out of here."
They are also merciless in their critiques of traditional brick-and-mortar corporations, including the magnanimous host that has courted them with T-shirts, backpacks and a perpetually open bar. The longest commentary string on the conference computer network billboard is a diatribe over the slow speed and unreliability of the I.B.M. system on site. The original posting described it with an expletive, and subsequent replies went downhill from there.
"They are not restrained in showing their opinions," Mr. Timpson of I.B.M. said. "We're willing to subject our technology to flame mail, harsh and adverse criticism, so that we can create the best of the breed. There's a lot of extreme hype out there, but at the end of the day, people respect performance and results."
And honesty. When Al Zollar, president and chief executive of the Lotus Development Corporation, which I.B.M. bought in 1995, opened an address by saying, "This is a developer crowd, and I know you don't like talking to people," heads in the audience nodded in agreement.
But human interaction seems to be the primary desire at these county fairs for denizens of the faceless digital economy. There is an air of high school prom expectancy about the gatherings, where gangly, awkward e-business chief executives wander around hoping to chat up a "rock star V.C.," venture-capitalist speculators who bankroll start-ups.
"What happens in a lot of these dot-com cases is the head of the company is more socially challenged and really doesn't like to be at these events, but they know if they don't learn those skills, they may ultimately fall back into the role of chief technical officer," Mr. Segars said. "When the V.C.'s get involved, if they have someone in charge of the company who doesn't have good business sense, knowing what to say when, they usually shuffle them back into the C.T.O. role and bring in a new C.E.O."
In the argot of Silicon Valley, participating in computer conferences helps stimulate "deal flow," the progression from idea to initial public offering.
"I can't tell you how many deals I've gotten from people who heard me speak at MacWorld 10 years ago," said the chief executive of Garage.com, Guy Kawasaki, a former Macintosh computer guru whose company helps dot-com enterprises find start-up capital.
Yet the booming popularity of these bacchanal computer conferences and trade shows is not solely for profit's sake. On another level, they fill a need for face-to-face contact among a notoriously isolated workforce.
"Geeks need community, too," Mr. Bahr said.
And no matter how flush with vested stock options, developers apparently still need to fill suitcases with giveaway trinkets that are the signature souvenirs of trade shows.
"Nowadays, people attending these shows expect to be entertained and go home with a ton of freebies," said Susan Ratliff, author of "How to Be an Exhibit Expert" and president of a Phoenix firm that creates trade show displays. "They act like kids."
Within two hours of opening the doors of the hangar-sized exhibition floor, the "killer toy" had been identified by a stampede of techies. It was a palm-sized foam rubber locomotive with a sound card that emits "choo-choo" noises when squeezed, the most prized of dozens of similar rubber statuary passed off as "stress relief" devices by vendors.
"These are the bonus items," said Curtis Cartmill, a Canadian software engineer, revealing the contents of his goody bag like a triumphant trick-or-treater. "We are acquiring knowledge here, but we are also acquiring a few projectiles."
Stephen Waespe, a colleague, added: "Someone at work will yell 'war' and you've got to have projectiles to retaliate. This is like an arms show for cubicle wars."
 
Some Survival Tips For E-Conventions
UNMUZZLED exhibitry can be intimidating to rookies. Here are a few tips on survival:
"Remember, look like you have purchasing authority," advised Benn Konsynski, a business professor at Emory University. "And don't make eye contact. It's a sign of weakness."
Do say you "forgot" your business cards. "That way, no one can bug you after the conference," said Nancy Anderson Smith of MQ Software. Follow-up contact avoidance is more difficult for vendors. "If you're an exhibitor, remember 10 percent of the population is plagued by mental illness."
Do ask others at the show for attraction advice. "Every show has five 'must see' innovations and word gets out after the first day where these are," Mr. Konsynski said.
Don't hesitate to grab the shiny giveaway baubles without enduring a sales demonstration. "The sales reps want you to take them because if you don't, they have to lug them back home on the plane," said Albert Segars, an e-commerce researcher at the University of North Carolina.
 CHRISTOPHER SMITH
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Software developers checking their e-mail, while conference organizers -- Lawanda Parnell, Chris Bahr and Elaine Chambers, from left, catch their breath. (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR EXHIBITION INDUSTRY RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); MGM GRAND HOTEL LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR EXHIBITION INDUSTRY RESEARCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; SPECIAL SECTIONS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (86%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (74%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (70%); INTERNET AUDIO (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (66%); MUSIC (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); POETRY (64%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CHRISTOPHER ALBERT SEGARS (72%); GARY NORCIGIAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



456 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 7; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: SHOPPING;
Where, Oh Where Has My Shopping Bot Gone?

BYLINE: By LISA NAPOLI; Lisa Napoli is the Internet correspondent for MSNBC.

 BODY:
KATIE the audio technician and I were sitting in the Staples Center in Los Angeles, waiting patiently for our next assignment at the Democratic National Convention, when I asked her to participate in a little experiment.
"Do you need to buy anything?" I asked, even though I had just met her and some people might have found that question too personal. 
 She looked at me quizzically for a moment, and I could see the brain scan going.
"Yes, in fact, sure," she said. Her eyes lit up. "A bomber jacket."
"Good," I said, and asked her to join me at the computer to test bots.
"What's a bot?" she asked.
A bot is a digital version of a personal assistant, I told her, which scans shopping sites and spits out lists of items and prices.
It is sort of like visiting several stores, but only going into one. This seemed particularly alluring because we were stuck in the convention hall, close to lots of hot air but nowhere near a good shopping mall.
"Neat!" Katie said.
Personally, I was wondering whether bots could still be as worthless as the last time I tried them.
Bots were all the rage last Christmas, hyped by the technology media at every turn, jamming the airwaves with commercials, but they seemed like vaporware to me -- overpromoted and underperforming. The bots I had tried were cluttered and unfriendly and usually produced too much information, all of which turned out to be worthless.
I also wondered, as I often did with the Internet, how bots could ever be a viable business. To be of any use to a consumer, they had to scan as many sites as possible, and surely not every site would pay for the referral. So how did I know I could trust the information I was getting from a bot?
The theory behind the technology was great, but the reality was a different matter. A bot did not necessarily give you unbiased, comprehensive information.
E-shopping experts seemed to agree with me. "I haven't found a bot yet that grabs every single bit of related information, or every single site," said Steve Haskin, managing editor of Botspot, a digital newsletter about bots. "I don't think there's one bot out there that does it all yet."
Ken Cassar, senior retail analyst with Jupiter Communications, said bots faced a fundamental economic problem.
"Consumers aren't willing to pay for the service," Mr. Cassar said. "As a result, they have to pursue advertising as a revenue model. The problem is, that creates potential conflict between their advertisers, and the way some bots have gotten around it is to provide a search for best price. They make their money from referrals, but they'll accept advertising from manufacturers."
That is why, he said, "the editorial integrity issue is one that's a bit dicey for the bots."
So, back to our shopping expedition. Katie and I, basking in the windowless workspace at the Democratic convention, started our search.
As a veteran of way too much online shopping, I knew that finding clothing might be particularly challenging. Because of the nature of the merchandise, much e-commerce has been focused on items like electronics, software and computer hardware -- goods you do not necessarily need to see or try on to buy.
Lately, that has been changing, said Josh Goldman, president of MySimon.com, a bot purchased by CNET in January for $700 million. "Frankly, we're amazed now at the breadth of categories," Mr. Goldman said. "Fashion and gourmet foods and high-priced bottles of wine. It's astounding to me that it's becoming mainstream."
Not mainstream enough yet, apparently. MySimon.com turned up just two bomber jackets for women, neither of which satisfied Katie.
Hotbot Shopping did not have any listings for "bomber jacket." Excite Shopping called up all sorts of bomber jackets, from panne velvet numbers to leather versions that offered no pictures for us to see. Several other bots we found listed on Botspot turned out to be defunct.
EAGER to spend some money and realizing that we were not getting anywhere, Katie remembered there was something else she had been wanting to buy: a copy of her son's favorite childhood book, "Muggins Mouse."
Bestbookbuys.com promised to search 14 different sites, but turned up 458 titles, not one of which was the one we were seeking. No luck at Bookblvd.com, and two other book bots, listed on Botspot, were out of commission.
This is where my surfing experience came to the rescue: I had found hard-to-trace books before on Bibliofind.com and Alibris.com, which search for old, used and rare books, so off we went. Katie did not want a $774 scarce, mint condition edition, but we did find a copy for $15 from a bookseller in Florida. Katie was delighted.
But technically, we had not used a bot.
Eager to put one to the test, I did try several to track down the price on a Nikon Coolpix 990, a camera that my fiance had recently bought and would have married if a man could marry a camera.
Another, different saga than the bomber search: I kept getting confusing lists, filled with lenses and adapters and other peripherals. Buried among them were prices on actual cameras, but more times than not, once shipping or member fees were added, the prices were virtually the same. Had I actually been buying the camera, I would have at that point gone to the online store I know and trust.
The experts said that I should not give up hope, that bots had just begun to evolve into what will be their eventual state.
"Long term, it will be something many, many different aggregators use in conjunction with coupons and reviews," Mr. Cassar of Jupiter said. "The problem is that right now since shopping bot functionality was developed to be used rather in a vacuum, it has not been integrated well with other types of content online."
Will it ever be? Mr. Haskin of Botspot thinks so.
"I still think we're dealing with maybe late Model T's. They haven't really begun to display the promise the computers have yet."
Maybe not. And maybe they will. But for now, the next time I need to buy something, I'm going to go direct to the stores I know -- online and off.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Weber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SPECIAL SECTIONS INTELLIGENT AGENTS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (88%); RETAILERS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA JOSH GOLDMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



457 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 4; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE OVERSEAS;
An Unusual Commute Leads to a Different Kind of Partnership

BYLINE: By JESSICA STEINBERG; Jessica Steinberg is a freelance business writer based in Jerusalem.

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan

 BODY:
THE drive from here to Tel Aviv is only 75 minutes, shorter than the ride from San Francisco to San Jose, in California. But Omar Salah is certainly the only Internet entrepreneur making it regularly.
It is a trip that always leaves Mr. Salah, 34, who built a string of factories that makes batteries and bras before stumbling into e-commerce, a bit stunned. 
 Although he had realized early on that Israel was crucial to economic development in the region, Mr. Salah never expected to be working with Israeli investors.
But he does, and it has led to TaskMail, Mr. Salah's Internet start-up, and the reason for his cross-border commute. He is developing an e-mail filing system with the help of $3.5 million from Israel Seed partners, a venture capital firm in Jerusalem.
TaskMail, which operates in a high-technology industrial park near Tel Aviv, expects to release its product by the end of the year.
The company is run by its chief executive, Ezer Baum, an Israeli expert on Lotus Notes. Mr. Salah is the company's enthusiastic chairman, sharing words from his favorite how-to-be-a-millionaire self-help books and keeping in constant contact by phone and e-mail message.
The project's genesis came from Mr. Salah's industrial investment firm, Century Investment Group, which was founded in 1995 and owns six factories in Jordan that produce a range of products, from cellular batteries for Motorola to underwear for Gap Inc., Victoria's Secret and Calvin Klein Inc.
To better manage the factories and their 4,000 employees, Mr. Salah, an engineer educated at Purdue University, had developed software as a method for collaborating through e-mail, allowing colleagues to assign tasks and follow up on projects.
The software essentially acts as an electronic agent, which will not only verify that an e-mail message has been received but also check that the recipient is acting on it.
In 1998, a couple of years after he developed TaskMail, Mr. Salah attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. There, he met Yossi Vardi, the technology guru who had backed his son and three other Israelis in developing instant e-mail messaging, which was later bought by America Online for $400 million.
Mr. Vardi encouraged Mr. Salah to turn his e-mail software into a business venture, but Mr. Salah was reluctant.
At the same forum, Mr. Salah met Jacob Davidson, an Israeli entrepreneur. It was Mr. Davidson who persuaded Mr. Salah to use venture capital, rather than his own money, to start TaskMail, helping him refine his marketing pitch while teaching him to be less apprehensive about working with Israelis.
"Every once in a while, Omar and I catch our breath and realize just how extraordinary our relationship is," said Mr. Davidson, who acts as an informal adviser and networking consultant to Mr. Salah. Through Mr. Davidson, Mr. Salah met his investors.
TaskMail is nearing the end of its first development stage and is being tested in two high-technology companies in Israel. Mr. Salah and Mr. Baum plan to introduce TaskMail by the end of October, at which point the company will follow the traditional Israeli model of setting up headquarters in the United States, with research and development centers in Israel. TaskMail is unique in that it will also have a research and development center in Jordan.
So far, testing has gone well, the company said, with users praising the tool's ability to push tasks to completion, particularly customer service requests.
"We get really good feedback from people who are frustrated with their e-mail tools," Mr. Baum said. The plan is to integrate TaskMail with existing software platforms, first using the tool for e-mail and instant messaging applications and then adding voice mail.
For Mr. Salah, doing business with Israelis has become second nature while earning him criticism from Jordanian associates who have avoided ventures with Israeli investors. Nevertheless, he has forged ahead, with tacit approval from King Abdullah of Jordan and with the cooperation of Mr. Salah's colleagues in Israel.
Even when Mr. Salah was starting his business at age 28, he realized that his Israeli neighbors were crucial to the worldwide market.
"I had natural hostilities," said Mr. Salah, the son of a Jordanian contractor who spent most of his childhood and early adulthood in Britain and the United States. "But I saw that Israel was part of the path to our future."
At that time, 1994, a year after the signing of a peace agreement between King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, Mr. Salah had never been to Israel. No matter. He wheedled his way across the border, found a taxi to take him to Tel Aviv and settled in the lounge of the Hilton Hotel.
HE then cold-called several of Israel's industrialists, asking them whether they wanted to cooperate in joint venture plants near the Israel-Jordan border. They did. And that is how his factories were built in Irbid, Jordan's second-largest city.
Mr. Salah is also setting up an Arab-Israeli-American venture capital fund that would take successful Internet models from English-speaking countries -- like eBay and Amazon.com -- and set them up in the Arabic-speaking countries. He hopes to involve other Jordanians.
Why with Israelis?
"We're looking to fill obvious voids in the new Arab economy," he said. "If Arabs can exploit Israeli resources -- the brains, finances and contacts -- and leverage it, it could create so much value. These are the dividends of peace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Omar Salah, a Jordanian entrepreneur, in Jerusalem, where his partners are based. Mr. Salah, who lives in Amman, runs an internet company called Taskmail near Tel Aviv. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (66%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (66%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TASKMAIL (CO); ISRAEL SEED PARTNERS GAP INC (66%); CALVIN KLEIN INC (66%); CENTURY INVESTMENT GROUP (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (54%); AOL INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TASKMAIL (CO); ISRAEL SEED PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; ISRAEL; JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; SPECIAL SECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNET & WWW (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); BATTERY MFG (77%); STARTUPS (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (66%); 

PERSON: SALAH, OMAR; STEINBERG, JESSICA OMAR SALAH (97%); JACOB DAVIDSON (61%); EZER BAUM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



458 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 44; Column 1; E-Commerce

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
Automated Advice Sites Turning Up the Heat on Planners

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
MOST of his peers look at the Internet and see a threat to their livelihood, but Frank Armstrong sees a medium for spreading the gospel of financial discipline to those he could not reach otherwise.
When he is not managing the finances of his wealthy clients from his office in Miami, Mr. Armstrong is serving as the chief investment strategist for DirectAdvice, an Internet company that says it is a low-price substitute for financial planners like Mr. Armstrong. DirectAdvice is one of several electronic services that have sprung up over the last year, offering investors advice on what to do with their money for as little as $50 a year. 
 Many financial planners dismiss these start-ups as one-size-fits-all answers to problems that require personal attention and custom solutions. They also worry that investors will be attracted by the much lower fees these new services are charging.
Clients can be dazzled by the speed and sophistication of the computerized tools these sites offer and begin to question why their planners charge so much more and do not offer them the tools as well. Most planners charge fees of 0.5 percent to 2 percent of their clients' assets.
"There is no possible way I can take on a client relationship for $75 a year," said Mr. Armstrong, the president of Managed Account Services, whose clients typically have at least $1 million to invest. "All those people who can't afford to come in and put $1 million on the table at this office still need advice."
The electronic feedback they could get from DirectAdvice for an annual fee of $75 or $100 may seem colder and more impersonal than the help they would get in face-to-face sessions with a human adviser, but it is still fairly sophisticated. These sites have graduated from the simple calculators that are available free throughout the Internet.
Most take the same approach: they start by asking clients to fill out detailed electronic forms that outline their finances and their plans for spending and saving. In short order, they spit back suggestions of how to spread their money among stocks, bonds and mutual funds. Some, including AdviceAmerica and Financial Engines, recommend certain mutual funds to buy.
AdviceAmerica, which is offering its services directly to consumers and through online brokerage firms, started out this year offering a one-year subscription to its online advisory service for just $49. That is half the price it plans to charge starting Oct. 1.
Financial Engines, founded by the Nobel Prize-winning economist William F. Sharpe, was the first of these electronic services to throw a scare into financial professionals. It offers a free financial plan for subscribers, followed by an unlimited number of updates on their progress, for as little as $55 a year. So far, the service is limited to tax-deferred retirement savings accounts, like 401(k) plans.
Michael McNamara, a consultant with Datamonitor in New York, said that these services were "very useful at a basic level." He said that most of them seemed to provide smart advice on how investors should spread out their money, though some do not give detailed guidance on which stocks or mutual funds to buy.
They may be good sources of advice for people with less than $100,000 to invest, Mr. McNamara said, but they cannot compete with brokers and planners who specialize in managing money for wealthy people. "Things do become too complicated for any type of automated response," he said. "The golden rule of brokers is 'know your customer.' But it's impossible for these types of services to really know you. They just know that you fit in Category D or Category A."
Even so, most financial planners feel threatened by these new competitors and the technology behind them, said Ed McCarthy, a retired financial planner and editor of the Financial Planning Association's Yourbiz Web site. "The concern is the clients are going to look at them as not being on the cutting edge," he said. "Clients are starting to request services that they are seeing online that the advisers might not have considered offering."
Mr. McCarthy said that planners were frequently hearing questions from clients about Monte Carlo simulations. Normally, any mention of Monte Carlo would cause a planner to shudder, fearing that a client might gamble away his retirement savings. These inquiries make planners shudder for a different reason: a Monte Carlo simulation is what number crunchers call a program that calculates the likelihood that a client's retirement-savings plan will support his dreams for his golden years. Users can ask for a recalculation based on different variables, like a higher inflation rate or a lower savings rate.
As sophisticated as they are, these tools are popping up on more and more Web sites, where they can often be used at no charge. Their easy availability is just one more factor that is contributing to the pressure on financial planners to make use of the Internet and other new technology or risk losing clients. Even advisers who do not think these electronic services are necessary or even helpful are providing them for fear of seeming too stodgy.
With a tone of resignation, Michael Howard, the president of Emery & Howard Portfolio Management in Burlingame, Calif., said his firm was preparing to grant clients the ability to electronically check on their accounts whenever and as often as they choose.
"Most savvy investors don't want information that rapidly," said Mr. Howard, whose firm caters to multimillionaire entrepreneurs and executives in Silicon Valley. "A lot of people don't even look. But you get a few who always look."
He dismisses the prospects of Internet-based companies, like MyCFO.com, a start-up backed by the Netscape founder Jim Clark, that hope to use a technological edge to lure wealthy clients away from traditional financial advisers. The financial lives of most affluent people are too complicated to be satisfied by impersonal, electronic systems, he said.
But in running his own business, Mr. Armstrong has been surprised at how many people will turn over management of large sums of money to somebody they have never met. He said only about 20 percent of his clients lived in the Miami area. The rest are scattered worldwide, some as far away as China, and he communicates with them mostly through e-mail.
For example, Mr. Armstrong said, most of his clients no longer listen in on periodic conference calls that he conducts to share his views on the financial markets. Now they can dial in to his Web site and hear and see the presentations when they want.
Instead of a threat to his livelihood, the Internet "is a humongous opportunity," he said. "One hundred percent of my business comes from the Internet and my entire e-commerce initiative costs $58 a month."
Mr. Armstrong sees electronic advisers as a way of bridging the growing gulf between investors who can afford planners like Mr. Howard and the masses.
As competition has squeezed prices, advisers have set their sights on richer clients whose fees will cover the costs of running their operations. Those costs include computers and servers to stay in constant touch with the brokerage firms that execute and process their trades, and software that manages bookkeeping and creates account statements.
In raising their account minimums, Mr. Armstrong said, "We've left orphan the entire middle class. The people who serve and build and make this country run."
AdviceAmerica estimates that almost 75 percent of American households do not have financial advisers. That is only in part because of the high cost, which can run into thousands of dollars a year.
"There are a lot of people with a lot of money who will never pay a financial adviser," Mr. Armstrong said. "I'm surprised at the number of people with real wealth who use the DirectAdvice model. We get clients with amazing amounts of wealth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Financial advisers are feeling more and more pressure to use Web-based planning tools. But Michael Howard, right, an adviser in Burlingame, Calif., says sophisticated clients still demand personal service. He spoke with two of them, Anthony and Karen Wilmer. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ENGINES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); BONDS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (62%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK ARMSTRONG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



459 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 15; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TO BUSINESS;
Step Right Up and Buy a Megawatt!

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
MANY Web sites scream about what they will sell you for next to nothing, or less. But how about a site that pays you not to buy?
A strange notion, but one that has more solid economic underpinnings than many of those desperate give-it-away dot-coms. Then again, the commodity in question is not the typical stuff of e-commerce transactions, like a plane ticket from Cincinnati to Nashville next Thursday or a vintage Barbie doll or 20,000 widgets of a certain shape. This promising new business is using e-commerce for a commodity that absolutely everybody needs: electricity. 
 As it turns out, one kilowatt may look like another, but its price may vary by a factor of more than 100 in a single day. At night a kilowatt-hour -- the amount of electricity needed to light 10 100-watt bulbs for an hour -- may sell for a penny or two, because most of the generating capacity is unused. But on a hot afternoon, in places where the market is deregulated, the same amount of power could cost $1 or $5, or even more.
Traditionally, though, utilities charge most customers pretty much the same price for the kilowatt-hour no matter what they pay to buy it or if they generate it themselves. Even companies with time-of-day rates are charging a price that varies by only a few pennies from peak to off-peak.
But as California approached a summer of tight electricity supplies this year, Pacific Gas and Electric started an e-commerce marketplace where customers could be paid not to buy. In theory, the system would work with any customer, but it is only practical with big consumers, mostly businesses, because otherwise the number of transactions becomes hard to manage.
As the state danced on the edge of rotating blackouts, the company quickly applied to regulators for permission to expand its program, called E-Bid. The system works like this: every afternoon, the utility gets an estimate of what power will cost on the wholesale market the next day. When the price is high, the utility notifies big customers that have signed up for its program, alerting them to log on to a secure Web site.
There, according to Ronald K. Lowe, a company spokesman, the estimated price is posted. If the customer, generally a factory, is willing to cut its consumption 20 percent from its normal level, then it accepts the bid, and the utility pays the customer the posted price, minus the normal retail cost per kilowatt-hour. If the bulk price is $250 a megawatt-hour, for example, that makes electricity 25 cents a kilowatt-hour, compared with a typical price to the factory of 5 cents or so. For every kilowatt-hour that the factory does not use on the next day, the company pays 20 cents.
The transaction has two functions. It cuts the risk of the grid running short of power and causing a blackout. And by reducing the peak demand, it takes a few buyers out of the market and makes the price lower for the remaining buyers. As the summer ended, proponents of this kind of marketing said that the unanticipated price swings, especially in places like San Diego, where some customers faced bills that had tripled, showed the necessity for making hourly prices obvious to electricity users, so that they would not blithely continue with normal consumption patterns at times of extraordinary price spikes.
But the California program is still small; on one tough day this summer, July 31, 29 customers participated, cutting demand by 40 megawatts, compared with a peak demand of 21,000 megawatts.
Pacific Gas and Electric charges customers $600 to enter the program and requires that they be able to cut demand by at least 500 kilowatts, which is enough to run about 100 big houses. But it has applied for permission to cut the entry fee to $100 and take applicants who can cut demand by only 250 kilowatts.
Such transactions are only possible through electronic commerce, but by setting just one price in a 24-hour period, P.G.& E.'s system is hardly taking full advantage. Wisconsin Electric Power began a more flexible system this summer in which it invites big customers to log on to a site, where it offers a price per kilowatt-hour not used. If it does not attract enough bidders to meet its needs, it can post a new bid price a few minutes later.
Such transactions could apply the market forces that already exist at the wholesale level to the level of the electricity user, possibly even a homeowner.
"There's been a whole lot of debate over the years as to whether or not an average consumer will ever shift consumption based on price principles," said Scott A. Weiner, a senior vice president of Sithe Northeast, an independent power producer. "On the other hand, people who run large office buildings or factories can get those price signals in a very strong way," said Mr. Weiner, a former environmental commissioner for New Jersey.
BUT, he said, at the moment, there is a supply curve -- a changing level of the amount available, depending on the price offered -- but no real demand curve, because the buyers do not know what the price is and thus cannot respond. Demand is therefore not affected by price.
"In the absence of a demand response, nobody can ever say, 'The price is too high, I'm not going to pay that,' " Mr. Weiner said. "As load response programs come into development, it's clear the Web will play a very vital part of making that real and accessible."
A second form of e-commerce is emerging on a business-to-business model, and it's one of the few forms that the government has required. It is called Oasis, for Open Access Same-Time Information System, ordered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Oasis gives companies that build free-standing power plants a way to market their power and for companies that consume electricity a way to see the market. Oasis systems are increasingly operated by new entities called Independent System Operators, which have been formed on the East Coast and in California to run the transmission grids that were formerly controlled by electric utilities.
The systems vary from place to place, but are supposed to show the price of electricity, sometimes broken down by location, to take account of transmission bottlenecks.
At the California Independent System Operator, William H. Simmons, the manager of market applications, development and support, said that some aspects of electricity trading existed years ago on electronic bulletin boards. But the ability of users to identify available transmission links and schedule their use depended on the Web. "It could not have happened if it were not for the Internet," he said. The Independent System Operator works with the California Power Exchange to arrange delivery of the power that generators and customers contract for on the exchange.
Both Oasis and programs like E-Bid have the potential to adjust electricity use to reflect costs, experts say, and that would be one way to hold down peak demand and thus make the system less prone to overload.
Eric Hirst, an energy consultant in Oak Ridge, Tenn., and a former scientist at the national laboratory there, speaking at a conference in Washington this spring on reliability problems, said the result would contrast with the former pattern of electricity use. When people know the price of a product they are consuming, they behave differently, economists say; in the case of electricity, they will consume it in relation to its seasonal price or even hourly price.
As Mr. Hirst said, "When people used to pay 5 cents a kilowatt-hour, it didn't matter to them whether electricity was free or $2 a kilowatt-hour."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Lights Out"
Californians use so much electricity that the state is flirting with blackouts. And because of deregulation, prices are sharply higher, especially in peak periods. Now, utilities are paying some big customers to cut their consumption during those periods. Below, the California Power Exchange's output and prices for one day last June.
 
Graph shows output compared to price.
(Source: California Power Exchange)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (57%); PCG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO PG&E CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SPECIAL SECTIONS NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (76%); WHOLESALERS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); UTILITY RATES (74%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (71%); POWER FAILURES (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L SCOTT A WEINER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



460 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 17; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: ONE YEAR LATER;
Nuts, Bolts and Bumps in the Road

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, W. W. Grainger Inc., which distributes manufacturing valves, maintenance products and replacement parts for industry, had established itself as a pioneer in electronic commerce.
Grainger, based in Lincolnshire, Ill., set out in 1995 to build more than just a line of defense against its competitors in the equipment and services industry known as M.R.O., or maintenance, repair and operations. 
 The company, which had revenue of $4.45 billion in 1999, wanted to use Web technology to become an even stronger force in the industry.
That is still the goal, but there have been growing pains. The homegrown technology used for Grainger.com, its first e-commerce site, was unable to support the features customers wanted, like a pop-up list as soon as they signed on showing supplies they usually buy or a procedure that required orders above a specific amount to be authorized. So Grainger was forced to slow down and move to a more flexible platform developed by BroadVision Inc.
Customers also showed little enthusiasm for Orderzone.com, an electronic marketplace that Grainger had set up where customers could order not just the 220,000 products it carried but products from distributors in other businesses like laboratory supplies and factory safety equipment.
In June, Grainger switched course, giving Orderzone.com and $21 million to Works.com of Austin, Tex., an Internet purchasing service for small and midsize businesses seeking office equipment and supplies, in exchange for a 40 percent stake in Works.com.
"Orderzone taught us it is very difficult and expensive to build a stand-alone brand on the Internet," said Richard L. Keyser, Grainger's chairman and chief executive.
For all that, Grainger's revenue from its e-commerce ventures is expected to reach $400 million this year, compared with $101.5 million last year.
Although only a small percentage of Grainger's 1.4 million customers are participating, the company is generating more Internet business than all of its competitors combined, said Jon Econiak, who follows e-business for Piper Jaffray, an investment company.
Mr. Econiak said Grainger was playing catch-up on the technology front to newcomers like IndustrialAmerica, a procurement site scheduled to begin this fall.
Grainger, for its part, thinks it will be more difficult for newcomers to duplicate the quick service and reliability of its 370 branch offices than for Grainger to match any online innovations. Grainger is investing $120 million this year in e-commerce initiatives, up from $100 million last year.
"Our highest priority is to create a seamless linkage between bricks and clicks," Mr. Keyser said.
"You can't fax motors," he added. "You have to be able to get them there in short order."
Mr. Econiak said it could be a couple of years before Grainger or any other company provides what customers truly want: a Web-based process that integrates all of the functions involved in buying industrial supplies, including a procedure for returns.
Most of Grainger's e-traffic -- about 6 percent of its total sales -- came from longtime customers who switched from calling or faxing orders to using its Web site. Grainger's research suggested that customers using the Internet increased their business with the company by 17 percent from 1998 to 1999. For customers who stayed with traditional channels, the growth rate was 8 percent.
Grainger's growth is also receiving a lift from FindMRO.com, a Web site the company started in November that helps customers find items it does not handle. By August, revenue was almost $6 million a month.
After setting up FindMRO, Grainger moved on in April to an even more ambitious project called TotalMRO.com.
TotalMRO tries to provide large companies that buy supplies from different distributors a single place where they can find prices, determine product availability and make transactions. This is somewhat akin to stuffing most of the M.R.O. universe into a single catalog.
Grainger said it needed about 100 nationwide distributors to provide customers with access to some 15 million products. By early August, about 15 distributors dealing in 3.5 million products had signed on, and Earthgrains, the nation's second-largest baker, had become the first client.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. W. Grainger's distribution center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., has thousands of parts and products available in person or online. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GWW (NYSE) (91%); BVSN (NASDAQ) (69%); PJC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GRAINGER, W W, INC WW GRAINGER INC (91%); BROADVISION INC (69%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAINGER, W W, INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SPECIAL SECTIONS MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (89%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J RICHARD L KEYSER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



461 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 4; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE OVERSEAS;
As Brazil's Market Grows, So Does the Free Access Dispute

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
WITH 170 million people and more than 10 million computers, five times the number in use five years ago, Brazil is the most promising Internet and e-commerce market in Latin America.
Brazil accounted for 80 percent, or about $400 million, of e-commerce sales in Latin America in 1999, according to recent market studies. But e-commerce in Brazil is still in its infancy -- only 6 percent of the country's 500 largest companies have complete e-commerce sites, according to a survey conducted earlier this year. 
 With online sales expected to double this year and again in 2001, dozens of access providers are competing to find the best strategy to lure consumers to the Internet.
Bradesco, Brazil's largest private bank, started the battle late last year when it began offering free Internet access to attract customers and promote its site, www.bradesco.com.br, which sells products ranging from books to car parts. Other banks soon followed and quickly found themselves joined by start-up providers that consider free access the surest path to profitability.
"Free access to the Internet is the model most appropriate for the reality of Brazil and, for that matter, most of the rest of Latin America," said Nizan Guanaes, the director of iG, an Internet provider. "In a society like the United States, paid access may be the way to go, but here people can't afford it, and so we have to create a different system."
IG, which stands for Internet Gratis, or free Internet, opened six months ago and said it now had 2.5 million users and 11 million daily page views. Mr. Guanaes said that the number of users was growing by more than 10,000 a day, and he predicted that the Sao Paulo-based service would be profitable "by the end of next year."
The site carries advertising and earns a commission on sales. It also plans to use its broadband and cell phone services to subsidize its Internet service.
The market leader has been Universo Online, or UOL, a venture between two media groups -- Folha, which publishes Folha de Sao Paulo, the largest newspaper in Sao Paulo, and Abril, the largest magazine group in Brazil, which also has a cable network.
UOL, of Sao Paulo, said it had 780,000 subscribers, up 50 percent from last year, and charges $11 to $22 a month for access to www.uol.com.br, which provides stock quotes, news, sports and entertainment information and offers products for sale.
"It is mathematically and logically impossible for the free access model to prevail in Brazil, for one simple reason," said Caio Tulio Costa, the director general of UOL. "You can't possibly turn a profit that way, and the behavior of the market, not only here but elsewhere, is already showing that advertising alone does not provide enough revenue to make money."
Conspicuously missing from the list of major players is America Online, the online leader in the United States. AOL, working with Cisneros Group of Venezuela, entered the Brazilian market late. When it did arrive, it found that its domain name already belonged to a small provincial provider, and it was forced to adopt the cumbersome name of www.americaonline.com.br. Then a disastrous start in November led to the departure of its president.
As is the case in other countries, none of the providers in Brazil are making money, and the market is cluttered with providers who are not expected to survive. UOL recently announced its second-quarter results, and despite a 28 percent growth in revenue, it posted a $45 million loss.
Though the number has fallen from a peak of more than 600 in 1997, there are still about 150 providers, including several with free access, like Terra Networks and StarMedia, whose focus is the Spanish-speaking Latin American market, rather than Brazil, where most people speak Portuguese.
Like other countries in Latin America, Brazil faces infrastructure problems that are slowing development.
Though the number of fixed phone lines has nearly tripled since 1994, to 35 million from 13 million, and cell phone ownership has soared to 15 million from 800,000, half the population still does not have a phone line, according to the Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion, a market research firm.
In addition, even with the privatization of the telephone system over the last two years, per-minute rates are high. So the more the Internet is used, the higher the phone bill, with charges for cell phones, often promoted as an alternative to reach the Internet, being even more expensive.
"If you stay online all day, you're going to end up with a considerable phone bill at the end of the month, and that is not the way to make access viable to the lower classes who see the computer as a promising tool," said Luis Carlos Boucinhas, the executive director of Globo.com, the site operated by Rede Globo, the country's largest television network. "We're already a broadband provider, and we are betting that, along with wireless access, is where the future lies."
Some of the obstacles to e-commerce are not online. People who buy goods online must trust a hit-or-miss postal system. Private courier services like Federal Express, United Parcel Service and DHL are booming, but countries like Brazil, which is larger than the continental United States, and neighboring Colombia and Peru have areas that are too remote for conventional transportation systems.
Yet the main barrier to e-commerce here, as in the rest of Latin America, is economics, not infrastructure. Only 10 percent of Brazil's population has an income of $300 a month or more, and it is that group that accounts for more than 80 percent of the country's five million Internet users.
"Until costs associated with accessing the Internet come down significantly, so that people in lower income brackets can get online, the B-to-C market in Brazil will never be large enough to justify overly optimistic expectations," Maria Carolina da Costa of Intellifact International wrote recently in an essay for InfoBrazil.com.
In hopes of reversing that trend, low-cost initiatives intended to expand use of the Internet are being created. Some post offices now offer 15 minutes daily of free access to customers willing to wait in line, and a pilot project in the city of Campinas allows users to call a telephone number and receive or send e-mail messages, for 25 cents a minute.
Globo.com has signed an agreement with a government bank to extend $890 million in low-interest loans to help poor families buy computers.
Many market analysts predict that it will not be long before the bulk of the population has access to the Internet through devices that can be bought and installed at home, whether an inexpensive computer, WebTV or Palm hand-held units.
"The price of computers is dropping and cellular use is exploding," Mr. Guanaes said. "I believe that by 2005 Brazil will be one of the three top Internet markets in the world."
But others are more cautious.
"In 1995, every bank and investment research company in Brazil predicted that there would be more than 10 million pay-television subscribers by 2000," Mr. Costa said. "But that figure has been stuck at 2.5 million for the past three years, which just goes to show that you have to view every prediction about this market with skepticism."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Carlos Boucinhas, above, of Globo.com, thinks broadband and wireless access are best for his country. Caio Tulio Costa, right, of Universo on Line, opposes free access, while Nizan Guanaes of iG, far right, says that there is no better option for all of Latin America. (Photographs by John Maier Jr./The Image Works, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBD (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: GLOBO.COM; UNIVERSO ONLINE; IG (CO) FREE SAS (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBO.COM; UNIVERSO ONLINE; IG (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; SPECIAL SECTIONS INTERNET & WWW (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); BROADBAND (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (74%); COMMISSION PAY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: BOUCINHAS, LUIS CARLOS; COSTA, CAIO TULIO; GUANAES, NIZAN; ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



462 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 17; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TO BUSINESS;
Why This Consumer Giant Isn't About to Sell to Consumers

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI

 BODY:
AS consumers gravitate to the Web, more and more are expecting retailers to deliver highly specialized packages -- books, clothing, compact discs, software -- to their doors.
Some consumers would even pay a premium for delivery of groceries. 
 So you might think a giant like Procter & Gamble, with a $40-billion-a-year stable of popular brands like Scope, Tide, Pampers and Crest, would be rushing to get in on the action -- to reinvent itself as a dot-com, bypassing retailers and going directly to consumers through the Internet.
Think again. Companies like P.& G. are keenly aware of the need to be in cyberspace (or anywhere their customers happen to be), and they know that home delivery is a fast-growing part of the market. But few experts said that online commerce would ever replace bricks and mortar -- especially for unglamorous staples like hair spray, soap and toothpaste. Instead, they expected companies like Procter to invest more heavily in business-to-business applications.
"Our estimates are that there'll never be more than 10 percent of groceries sold online," said Evie Black Dykema, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. "There'll be lots of specialty items online -- Indian spices and Pepperidge Farm cookies. But Bounty paper? Not a chance."
Consumers are also searching for more information on the products they use or intend to use and that is forcing everyone, including consumer product giants, to have a presence on the Web.
Here at Procter & Gamble's sprawling headquarters, officials said that for all its promise, the Internet held nothing compelling enough to justify destroying relations with retailers or overhauling a colossal distribution system.
Instead, executives have concluded that the best route to continued success is to travel as many high-technology roads as possible. When it comes to the Internet, the company's motto might be "Experiment, experiment, experiment."
So over the last year, Procter has moved aggressively to forge relationships with the online grocers Webvan Group Inc. and HomeGrocer.com Inc. It has also created its own venture capital arm to invest in Internet start-ups, allowing it to tiptoe into new product lines.
Procter is teaming up with popular Web sites, like iVillage.com and Women.com, to promote its beauty and health care products. It is rolling out new brands online, seeking consumer reaction before the items reach store shelves. And it is using the Web to gather information about consumers.
Procter has also joined other consumer-products giants, like Coca-Cola and Sara Lee, in a business-to-business Internet exchange that seeks to use their combined weight to reduce the costs of buying materials and shipping goods.
And the company is using the Internet to induce better cooperation among its 8,500 researchers and scientists, who spend about $1.8 billion a year on research and development.
In rejecting the idea of shipping directly to consumers, executives and analysts cited buying patterns and market relationships that they said were too durable to be displaced by the Internet.
It would be suicidal, they said, to spend billions of dollars to build distribution networks to compete with the likes of Wal-Mart, Kmart and Target, just for the privilege of wrapping $3 and $5 items individually and shipping them to consumers.
"P.& G.'s primary customers right now are the big mass retailers, and so if you go direct you compete with them," said William Steele, a consumer products analyst at Banc of America Securities. "Wal-Mart has 2,800 stores. If you decide to ship case one of Tide directly to consumers, you get yourself thrown out of 2,800 stores. Why would you do that?"
Procter & Gamble's distribution system is geared to shipping in bulk to warehouses and retail outlets. To overhaul that system in favor of one that is more splintered would be inefficient and costly, executives said. Nor is there evidence that consumers are clamoring for the service.
"We've done extensive research," said Stephen N. David, the company's chief information officer. "We find consumers want aggregation; they don't want a box of Tide coming in the afternoon."
Of course, companies like Procter know that change is constant and that technological developments could someday force them to go straight to consumers.
Executives worry that the Web's interactive and open format could give a big advantage to more nimble and inventive competitors.
So like other companies, Procter is hedging its bets. It is investing heavily not just in working with Web companies but also in creating and tracking Web developments.
IVentures, the venture capital fund Procter started this year, has bought stakes in half a dozen companies, typically with investments of $2 million to $5 million. The idea is to find additional outlets for products and to help Procter better understand where the Internet is headed.
"This is also helping change the culture of P.& G. because start-ups are leading edge," said Richard Kiley, the head of iVentures. "We're putting general managers and vice presidents on the boards of companies so they observe."
One of Procter & Gamble's biggest forays onto the Web came a year ago, when it invested $35 million in its own Silicon Valley start-up, Reflect.com, devoted to creating custom beauty products.
The company goes where Procter is not ready to go: not only does it manufacture products, it also ships them to consumers. The way executives at Reflect.com explain it, the company is almost the antithesis of its parent.
"When a consumer-products company does testing on a new product, it has to meet the needs of a large group; they throw out what doesn't meet the broad needs of people," said Richard Gerstein, a vice president for design and marketing at Reflect.com in San Francisco. "With us, a woman comes online, answers a set of questions, and then we help her create a product just for her."
Reflect.com is a kind of laboratory for Procter & Gamble, a window into an online future in which the cosmetics industry could shift from generic, mass-produced scents, colors and brands toward more expensive, highly individual ones.
It is even possible that biotechnology will enable companies to use a person's genetic blueprint to match skin, body and hair types with the right product.
Executives at Procter said that for all the emphasis on the mass market, on shipping truckloads of one-size-fits-all products to the Wal-Marts of the world, they were preparing for a day when custom products are more than a niche market. It is a possibility that could upset some of their moves toward greater efficiency through giant manufacturing plants and distribution depots.
In the last year, Procter & Gamble has introduced two products on the Web: Physique, a line of shampoos, conditioners, gels, mousses, creams and lotions; and a Crest whitening strip that bleaches teeth. Both products were started with Web sites, advertising and free samples.
The company said that the Web was an ideal tool for direct marketing and communicating with consumers who want to know about new products or ask questions about existing ones.
"Why spend time pushing at consumers who aren't interested?" asked David Worth, the associate director for information technology.
But for Procter & Gamble, which is basically a business-to-business company selling to big retailers, the Web's most promising aspect may lie in the savings that could result from teaming with other companies to create a more efficient procurement and distribution network.
The network, Transora, is to begin operating this year. Its members -- including Coca-Cola, Sara Lee, Kraft, PepsiCo and Gillette, along with Procter & Gamble -- will try to leverage their size in obtaining better prices for raw materials and share data to find less expensive and more efficient ways to ship products and track inventory. And they are expected to work more closely with retailers to root out inefficiencies.
"Billions of dollars are wasted in inefficiencies every year," said Judith Sprieser, the chief executive of Transora, which is based in Chicago. "There are estimates that we carry too much inventory in our supply chain because we don't know what's going to be purchased."
The alliance shows that online commerce is changing the rules of the marketplace even if most consumers never abandon their supermarkets and shopping malls.
"The winner in the future is going to be the one who can mobilize the best access to information and make the best use of it," Ms. Sprieser said. "And they'll all have fewer clerks correcting invoice errors."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Procter & Gamble is investing in Internet exchanges to make its factories, like this one in Ivorydale, Ohio, more efficient. And it hopes that the work of chemists like Karina Kwok, right, in the Health Care Research Center in Mason, Ohio, can be combined with the Web to create products personalized to a customer's tastes. (Photographs by MARK LYONS for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (63%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO AMAZON.COM INC (63%); WEBVAN GROUP INC (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OHIO, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SPECIAL SECTIONS B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); STARTUPS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



463 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: The 'Tequila Crisis': Take It With a Grain of Salt

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 19

 BODY:
For a while there, if you believed the rumors, the headlines and the desperate cries of some New York bartenders, you might have thought that the world's supply of tequila was about to dry up.
Yes, a temporary shortage of blue agave, the gigantic lily from which the liquor is made, forced a few small distilleries to close their doors. And the perception of a crisis allowed big producers, which appear to have enough agave to weather the tequila tempest, to raise their prices 20 percent or more. One Manhattan bartender even invented a substitute called the "rum-a-rita." 
 But is there a tequila crisis of glass-shattering proportions? Not really, inquiries from here to Margaritaville indicate.
"There is no crisis," said Jose Luis Sanchez, vice president of the National Chamber of the Tequila Industry in Mexico. "There is no such thing as this alleged crisis."
It is true, however, that trouble has been brewing in and around Tequila, the town in central Mexico that makes millions of gallons of the drink that made it famous. Indisputably, large forces are at work: the cycles of nature, the laws of supply and demand, the thirst for margaritas. But for the increasing number of people in the United States who sip premium tequila or swill agave-scented slush, the glass may be half full, not half empty.
Making tequila -- a drink as Mexican as Champagne is French -- has been a rough-and-tumble business since the days of the conquistadors. The Aztecs figured out how to make a brew called pulque out of agave more than 1,000 years ago. The Spaniards refined the process. But no one ever smoothed over the eternal enmity between the farmers who grow agave and the businessmen who distill tequila.
"The growers and distillers of tequila are historical enemies," said Robert Denton, an American tequila importer. Their warring has led to the present state of affairs.
Eight years ago, there was a glut of agave. The big producers pressured farmers to sell below market prices, for less than 4 cents a pound, driving some out of business or into other crops.
Agave takes at least eight years to mature. Today, there are roughly half as many agave plants in the ground as there were a few years ago. Fungus and freezes, as well as greed, have taken their toll.
And in those past eight years, tequila's popularity exploded in the United States. Like single-malt whisky and specialty bourbon, premium tequila, made from 100 percent blue agave, is handmade, with subtle variations, a rich history and a complex taste. And like those other spirits, it began to command staggering prices in the 1990's: $100 -- or more -- for an artfully made bottle. Jose Cuervo recently introduced 1800 Coleccion at $1,000 a bottle.
Fueled by that trendiness, the booming stock market and the eased trade rules of Nafta, production and export of the top-end premiums more than quadrupled from 1995 to 1999. The more popular brands of tequila, which are as little as 51 percent agave and used for mixing margaritas, also took off, with production and export increasing roughly 40 percent. Industry statistics vary and are sometimes suspect. But figures from Mexico's Tequila Regulatory Council, formed in 1994 to oversee production and quality, show a 48 percent increase in tequila drinking north of the Rio Grande since 1995.
With less agave growing and more tequila flowing, it doesn't require a Ph.D. in economics to understand the consequences: prices are up 20 percent or more for the popular brands, and demand threatens to overtake supply.
"It was a while in coming, and it couldn't have happened without the stupidity of the tequila manufacturers and the not-so-watchful gaze of the Mexican government," said Agustin Barrio Gomez, who is trying to sell his small premium distillery, Suave Patria, to avoid going broke. The Mexican government did not intervene, as Washington might have, to provide price supports or bailouts for farmers.
But despite the temporary agave shortage, the major tequila producers, which control more than half the global market, do not seem to be running dry.
"For the big boys, there isn't really a crisis," said Alan S. Dikty, an expert on spirits and an editor at Tastings.com, the Web site of the Beverage Testing Institute in Chicago, which conducts consumer reviews (and sounds like a pleasant place to work). "All the large distillers either own their own fields or have contracts lined up with growers. They're covered."
But for the smaller ones, who buy agave from independent plantation owners, "there is a crisis," he said, adding, "There is going to be a winnowing out."
Today, Mexico has 72 tequila distilleries, double the number five years ago. But a dozen or more of the smaller new ones have closed or seem likely to soon because they can't compete with companies that have bigger reserves and more buying power. The smaller distillers have to buy agave on the open market, where prices shot above 60 cents a pound this summer.
Answering their pleas, the government threatened the big distillers this summer with an antitrust action. But the threat came too late and in any case never materialized.
If it had, it could well have become an international incident. Foreigners have a big stake in the most famous names in tequila. Allied Domecq, the British company that also controls Dunkin' Donuts and Baskin-Robbins, owns Tequila Sauza, the second-largest brand. Diageo, the British conglomerate that owns Burger King and Guinness, controls 45 percent of Jose Cuervo, the largest-selling tequila. American, Canadian and French companies like Brown-Forman, Seagram and Remy Martin are also in the global cantina.
Last month, the government brokered a deal between the distillers and the growers. They agreed to set the price of agave at 45 cents a pound, to try to bring the supplies of agave back up, and to try to bring the price of tequila back down.
The deal was too late to save Mr. Barrio Gomez's distillery, and he fears it might have come too late to maintain tequila's soaring popularity abroad.
"It's a shame," he said. "Tequila was the fastest-growing product in the spirits market." Then the "greed and poor coordination" of big tequila companies "broke the market momentum," he said. "Once you kill the fad, it's hard to regain."
But the thirst for tequila remains, though the price may stay high -- for a while. In the town of Tequila, "they're overplanting now," Mr. Denton said, with a sigh born of two decades in the business, adding, "So, six or eight years from now, there'll be a glut again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEFORE THE LIME -- Agave is harvested in a Sauza field. (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times)(pg. F1); FIRST CRACK -- Agave "pineapples" are split by an ax-wielding worker at Jose Cuervo, one of 72 tequila distilleries in Mexico. (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 
Chart: "Order Extra Ice"
Because of a shortage of the agave plant, production of Mexican Tequila is expected to fall this year. (pg. F6)
 
Graphs measure total production and exports to the U.S. of Tequlia in million gallons from 1996-2000 (Source: Tequila Regulatory Council)(pg. F6)
 
Map of Mexico shows the location of Jalisco: Jalisco makes most of the world's tequila. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TEQUILA REGULATORY COUNCIL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEQUILA REGULATORY COUNCIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TEQUILA; AGAVE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); DISTILLERIES (89%); AGAVE PRODUCTION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



464 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: New Home Construction Rises 0.3%

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Construction of new homes increased in August for the first time in four months as lower mortgage rates renewed interest from buyers.
Housing starts rose 0.3 percent last month, to an annual rate of 1.53 million units, after falling 2.9 percent in July, the Commerce Department said. 
 The increase in August came after declines in five of the previous six months, as mortgage rates climbed to a five-year high in May. Rates on 30-year fixed mortgages fell in the last four months and have averaged 7.93 percent in September, the lowest this year.
As a result, mortgage applications rose this month to the highest level since the week the Federal Reserve started raising interest rates in mid-1999. "It looks as if the worst is behind us" for the housing industry, said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
That suggests housing will help sustain the economic expansion, which is now in a record 10th year. "It seems as if the housing market has been able to pull off a soft landing," Mr. Naroff said, just the sort of slowdown for the economy as a whole that Fed policy makers have been seeking.
Residential construction is on course this year to total 1.62 million units, which would match the number of houses built in 1998. That was the second-best year -- after 1999 -- for builders during the current expansion.
The rebound in construction comes after an increase in sales of new single-family homes in July to the fastest pace in four months. Construction of single-family homes rose 4.6 percent in August to the highest level since April. Permits for construction on new houses rose 2.1 percent last month, the first increase since March, suggesting a further pickup in home building.
Construction of apartments and other multifamily housing fell 15.9 percent last month after a 6.7 percent drop in July. Permits plunged for multifamily homes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction"
New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates.
 
Graph tracks housing construction since March 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES HOUSING STARTS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); 

PERSON: JOEL NAROFF (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



465 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Milosevic, Trailing in Polls, Rails Against NATO

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Sept. 19

 BODY:
In his race for re-election, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is running against NATO and the United States, not against his democratic opposition.
He is not entirely mistaken to do so. The United States and its European allies have made it clear that they want Mr. Milosevic ousted, and they have spent tens of millions of dollars trying to get it done. 
 Portraying himself as the defender of Yugoslavia's sovereignty against a hostile, hegemonic West led by Washington, Mr. Milosevic and his government argue that opposition leaders are merely the paid, traitorous tools of enemies who are continuing their war against him by other means. In March 1999, NATO began a 78-day bombing campaign to drive Serbian forces out of Kosovo.
The Yugoslav elections are on Sunday, but there has hardly been a day since the bombing began that state television news has not railed against "NATO aggressors."
With the campaign at its height, the government has spread its attacks to include all opposition political parties, independent newspapers, magazines and electronic media, the student organization known as Otpor -- or Resistance -- and any nongovernmental organization working to promote democracy, human rights or even economic reforms.
While Mr. Milosevic is trailing the main opposition leader, Vojislav Kostunica, in opinion polls, the anti-Western campaign is having an impact. The money from the West is going to most of the institutions that the government attacks for receiving it -- sometimes in direct aid, sometimes in indirect aid like computers and broadcasting equipment, and sometimes in suitcases of cash carried across the border between Yugoslavia and Hungary or Serbia and Montenegro. Most of those organizations and news media could not exist without foreign aid in this society, which is poor and repressive and whose market is distorted by foreign economic sanctions.
Even with foreign aid, government restrictions on newsprint supplies and high and repeated fines after suspiciously quick court cases make it hard for the independent news media to reach their natural market.
As for the opinion polls that show Mr. Kostunica in the lead, the information minister, Goran Matic, charges that the polls are orchestrated and manipulated by the Americans and the Central Intelligence Agency, who help pay for them. According to Mr. Matic, Mr. Milosevic is actually far ahead of Mr. Kostunica, and the polls simply serve as a vehicle for the opposition to claim that the government stole the election once Mr. Milosevic wins.
Mr. Matic asserts that the Atlantic alliance has come up with various scenarios, such as infiltrating soldiers wearing Yugoslav Army and police uniforms, to make it possible for the opposition to start civil unrest in the streets after the election while claiming that the police and the army are actually on their side.
Mr. Matic has attacked various nongovernmental organizations, including the Center for Free Elections and Democracy, which is trying to monitor the fairness of the election, as paid instruments of American and alliance policy. Many such organizations have been raided by the police, who confiscate computer files and also appear to be gathering evidence about foreign payments.
"President Milosevic will win this election," said Ljubisa Ristic, the president of the Yugolav United Left party, founded by Mr. Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic. "This is not Hollywood." Washington and the West, she said, "are like little kids, wanting something to happen so much they're fooling themselves."
Mr. Ristic said the alliance's war produced a new solidarity among Yugoslavs and "killed many illusions people had about the West and about their own opposition leaders, who went to the countries that were bombing us to seek their support."
The issues, Mr. Ristic said, are clear now. "It's a decisive time," he said. "This is not an election so much as a referendum, a decision on being an independent country or a colony. People see what's happened in Kosovo, what happens when NATO troops enter the country, and they are not going to allow the alliance's hand-picked candidates to win."
Even before the Kosovo war, the United States was spending up to $10 million a year to back opposition parties, independent news media and other institutions opposed to Mr. Milosevic. The war itself cost billions of dollars. This fiscal year, through September, the administration is spending $25 million to support Serbian "democratization," with an unknown amount of money spent covertly to help the failed rallies of last year, which did not bring down Mr. Milosevic, or to influence the current election. For next year, the administration is requesting $41.5 million in open aid to Serbian democratization, though Congress is likely to cut that request.
Independent journalists and broadcasters here have been told by American aid officials "not to worry about how much they're spending now," that plenty more is in the pipeline, said one knowledgable aid worker. Others in the opposition complain that the Americans are clumsy, sending e-mails from "state.gov" -- the State Department's address -- summoning people to impolitic meetings with American officials in Budapest, Montenegro or Dubrovnik, Croatia.
But there is little effort to disguise the fact that Western money pays for much of the polling, advertising, printing and other costs of the opposition political campaign -- one way, to be sure, to give opposition leaders a better chance to get their message across in a quasi-authoritarian system where television in particular is in the firm hands of the government.
While that spending allows the opposition to be heard more broadly, deepening the opposition to Mr. Milosevic, it also allows the government here to argue that it has real enemies, and that the Serbian opposition is in league with them.
Just today, in the state-run newspaper Politika, a long article used public information from the United States -- including Congressional testimony and Web site material -- to show that the United States is financing the opposition.
" 'Independent,' 'nongovernmental' and 'democratic' are the standard phrases the C.I.A. uses to describe organizations established all over the world to destroy the governments and the societies that the U.S. government wants to colonize and control," the paper wrote.
The Congressional testimony, from July 29, 1999, cited American officials then involved with Yugoslav policy, like Robert Gelbard and James Pardew, telling Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware about their projects. They describe the creation of a "ring around Serbia" of radio stations broadcasting into Serbia from Bosnia and Montenegro, the spending of $16.5 million in the previous two years to support "democratization in Serbia," and another $20 million to support Montenegro's president, Milo Djukanovic, who broke away from Mr. Milosevic in 1998.
The testimony listed some of the recipients of American aid here, including various newspapers, magazines, news agencies and broadcasters opposed to Mr. Milosevic, as well as various nongovernmental organizations engaged in legal defense and human rights and projects to bring promising Yugoslav journalists to the United States for professional training.
All such projects are portrayed by Politika and state television as a way to undermine the legal government, and the recipients are labeled traitors to their country.
Opposition leaders like Mr. Kostunica regard such tactics by the government as crass propaganda, but even he is skeptical of American intentions in paying for nongovernmental organizations, some of whom, he believes, are even unconsciously working for American imperial goals and not necessarily Serbian values.
Other democratic leaders, like Zoran Djindjic and Zarko Korac, regard such attacks as an indication of Mr. Milosevic's desperation and anxiety on the eve of the first election he is likely to lose in his entire political career. Given the stakes for Mr. Milosevic, they believe that he will do all he can, including the wholesale stealing of votes, to ensure a victory in the first round of voting.
"The stakes are fundamental for Milosevic," Mr. Korac said. "These elections are crucial, not necessarily for the immediate handover of power, but because for the first time Mr. Milosevic will be delegitimized in the eyes of his own people. He was an elected dictator, with popular and legal legitimacy. But from now on he's a true dictator, and he will only be able to rule by force -- that's a big step for Serbia."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With signs saying "He's Finished," supporters of the main anti-Milosevic candidate, Vojislav Kostunica, right, rallied yesterday in the town of Nis. (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (67%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); TRENDS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); RIOTS (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); NEWSPRINT (50%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



466 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Sophie Davis, Executive and Philanthropist, Is Dead at 74

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Sophie Davis, a successful businesswoman whose backing helped create the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education at the City College of New York, died on Saturday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 74.
The cause was breast cancer, her son Alan said. 
 Mrs. Davis helped her husband. Leonard, found the Colonial Penn Group of insurance companies, and they gave millions of dollars to art, dance, music and Jewish philanthropic causes, including the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
But one project in which she took the most pride was the medical program at City College, which helps place economically disadvantaged students into medicine with the understanding that they will practice for at least two years in low-income communities.
Students in the seven-year accelerated medical degree program take three years of undergraduate work at City College, two years of medical training at Sophie Davis and their final two years at one of six cooperating medical schools, including New York University and SUNY/Downstate. The graduates are known as "Sophies."
The Davises' first gift, $1.2 million, to the school, which began as an experimental program, was given anonymously in 1972. Five years later, Mrs. Davis agreed to have her name attached to the school.
When the school gave her an honorary degree at that time, she brought a phalanx of friends and relatives to the ceremony to see her in her academic cap and gown; she had dropped out of City College to get married.
Mrs. Davis was born in 1926 in the Bronx to Isadore and Esther Kesten, immigrants from Minsk, Russia. After skipping a grade in high school, she attended City College at night; there she studied accounting and met Leonard Davis, whom she married in 1945. He survives her.
In addition to her husband and her son Alan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Davis is survived by another son, Michael, of Belvedere, Calif., and four grandchildren.
While Mr. Davis worked as an accountant and later in the insurance business, Mrs. Davis worked at his side, organizing the office, handling the bookkeeping and serving as his sounding board. She was also a director of the Colonial Penn Group, which they founded in 1963, until they sold it in 1984.
"I always discussed everything with her," Mr. Davis said. "We made the decisions jointly, based on which one of us felt the strongest. Sometimes we had to figure out which of us that was."
He said that the company avoided borrowing money, for example, because Mrs. Davis violently opposed it.
But he prevailed on the issue of buying a magazine that later merged with Modern Maturity, the magazine of the AARP, which he helped found. "She was opposed, and she got the other senior members of my staff to oppose it, too," Mr. Davis recalled. "But I felt very strongly about it, so we bought it."
The Sophie Davis medical school was one of many projects the couple supported at City College. They also provided funds for a performing arts center, Aaron Davis Hall, named after Mr. Davis's father. Mrs. Davis helped choose some of the resident performers, and she and her husband often entertained them after performances.
As the Davises began to spend more and more time in Palm Beach (although they kept their Fifth Avenue apartment), they played a similar role as impresarios, establishing the Regional Arts Foundation, with Mrs. Davis as president, in the early 1970's. The foundation brought performers like Isaac Stern, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the New York City Ballet to southern Florida, then considered by some a cultural wasteland.
"She felt a responsibility to bring music and dance to this area," said Judith Mitchell, chief executive of the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts in West Palm Beach, which took over the performance series in 1994.
The Davises also became involved with the Norton Museum of Art in West Palm Beach. Mrs. Davis served as a trustee and spearheaded the drive to build a new wing.
But even from Florida, she kept in touch with the medical school named after her. She and her husband gave the school another $2 million for an endowed scholarship fund in their names. And last year, when she attended the graduation ceremony, the students stood up and started chanting her name: "Sophie! Sophie! Sophie!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sophie Davis in the 1980's. (Mort Kaye)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL PENN GROUP INC (58%); CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); INSURANCE (71%); HOLOCAUST (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); BREAST CANCER (58%); MUSIC (56%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, SOPHIE; ARENSON, KAREN W AARON DAVIS HALL (95%); SOPHIE DAVIS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



467 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Honda Warns the Owners Of Over 500,000 Vehicles

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company today became the third major Japanese company in the last month to issue an extensive product recall, warning owners of 551,924 vehicles that they might have potential oil leaks or audio wiring flaws that could cause fires.
The recall was announced against a background of heightened sensitivity in corporate Japan about defective products. Earlier this month, the Transport Ministry punished the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation for systematically concealing consumer complaints about its cars and trucks for more than 20 years. 
 Honda said the recall had no relation to Mitsubishi's scandal, which resulted in the recall of one million Mitsubishi vehicles. "It's just that the timing of the announcement came at this moment," Honda said through a spokesman. "It's best to do it fast, but we had to study and assess the case before submitting it."
Honda, the No. 2 Japanese automaker behind Toyota Motor, said the recall affected vehicles sold mostly in Japan but included some Accord models sold in the United States.
The company said wiring in audio equipment supplied by Alpine Electronics for 320,710 of its 1991-97 models that include the Accord, Prelude and Legend could overheat and cause speakers to ignite. Eleven instances of flare-ups or burning had been reported since June but no deaths or injuries.
Honda said a defective oil seal that could cause leaks affected 231,214 of its 1993-95 models that include the Odyssey minivan and the Accord. No deaths or injuries were associated with the problem.
Recalls are considered particularly embarrassing to Japanese manufacturers, historically known for their quality products.
Automotive recalls in particular have been rising in Japan for years. According to the Ministry of Transport, there were 45 recalls in 1995 involving 150,000 vehicles. By last year, there were 132 recalls affecting 1.85 million vehicles.
Takaki Nakanishi, an automobile analyst with Merrill Lynch in Tokyo, said the growth in recalls also reflected efforts by manufacturers to cut costs. "They may use the most economic materials or cut certain phases of physical tests," he said. The surge in recalls, he said, "are the flip side of the coin."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hiroyuki Yoshino, president of the Honda Motor Company, introduced the new model of the Odyssey minivan last year. The company announced yesterday that large numbers of its cars might have defects. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 7211 (TSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (58%); TM (NYSE) (58%); 7203 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (91%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); TOYOTA RECALLS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); MINIVANS (72%); 

PERSON: TANIKAWA, MIKI

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



468 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Autumn of Teachers' Discontent Is Dawning

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Minutes before the fourth-period bell rang, Kathy Aborn, a computer sciences teacher at East Boston High, laid into school district officials about their contract offer, saying the city's teachers were dead serious in threatening to go on strike next month.
"I think their offer is pitiful," she said. "They're trying to take away the few extra privileges we have." 
 Ms. Aborn complained that the school district wanted to eliminate many of the privileges that the most senior teachers had in choosing where they taught and had proposed a wage increase of less than 10 percent over three years. She says teacher salaries have lagged far behind those of other professionals.
Tensions are running so high that Boston's 6,500 public schoolteachers narrowly defeated a motion to go on strike on the first day of school. Instead, they set Oct. 11 as a strike deadline and adopted a "work to rule" strategy that calls for doing nothing beyond what the contract specifically requires.
"I would say teachers are the angriest I've ever seen them," said Edward Doherty, president of the Boston Teachers Union.
But the anger, part of which may well be a negotiating tactic, is not limited to Boston. It is a tense autumn in school districts across the nation, including in three of the nation's largest cities, New York, Los Angeles and Philadelphia, where teachers' contracts have expired or are about to expire.
Teachers, feeling left behind by the economic boom and emboldened by the teacher shortage, are pushing for large raises. School boards, swept up in the nationwide push for educational reform, are pushing back, demanding far-reaching changes to improve performance, including merit pay, longer school days and an end to seniority.
In Buffalo, 4,000 teachers went on strike for two days, while 21,000 Philadelphia teachers are threatening a walkout later this week. In Los Angeles, teachers have also warned of strikes if negotiations break off, while in New York City, the 80,000-member teachers' union is already holding demonstrations, even though its contract does not expire until November.
There have been teacher strikes in half a dozen smaller communities, including Hamilton, N.J., Punxsutawney, Pa., and Richmond Heights, Ohio. While there are fewer strikes this fall than was the case a decade ago, this is largely because state officials have made clear to teacher leaders that they will be jailed or fined if they spearhead strikes.
Teachers say that the nature of the negotiations is more complex than in many previous rounds. In New York, Philadelphia, Boston and Los Angeles, officials are seeking large-scale change in the face of louder and louder calls for charter schools and vouchers. As a result, while negotiations in the 1990's often focused on details like whether a raise should average 2 percent a year or 2.5 percent, this time around school officials have more ambitious goals.
In New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed that teachers be paid based on the test results of the students in their classrooms. In Philadelphia, the school board is also demanding performance-based merit pay, adding 75 minutes to each school day, adding five days to each school year, and getting rid of some of the seniority preferences that base school staffing not on what a principal thinks is best, but on how much seniority a teacher has.
"Some of the reforms that bear on teachers are beginning to gain some traction on the ground, and teachers' organizations don't like that at all," said Chester E. Finn Jr., an education expert at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization.
Many teachers say that after they accepted salary freezes or low pay increases during times of recession and budget deficits, in today's prosperous times, negotiations should focus on giving teachers large raises and increasing starting salaries, usually just above $30,000, to attract the two million new teachers the nation will need over the next decade.
Sandra Feldman, president of the million-member American Federation of Teachers, said, "I think you're seeing teachers feeling that they're being totally left out in a period when the economy is booming and when there are surpluses at every level of government, when demands on them are greater than ever and when they go to the bargaining table, all anybody wants to talk about is merit pay."
"It's like everything we won over the years they just want to take it away," said Marie Ann Adduci, a first-grade teacher at William E. Russell Grammar School in Boston's blue-collar Dorchester neighborhood.
The teachers at that school, cited last year as one of Boston's best, say they are angry that after putting in so many extra hours to improve the school, the school district wants to place restrictions on their daily preparation time and add up to 30 extra hours onto their school year.
"On the Richter scale, I'd say the tensions are about an 8," said Jim Fay, an elementary school math teacher for the past 31 years. "A lot of teachers feel funny that their children in their entry-level jobs are earning twice what they do."
Thomas W. Payzant, superintendent of Boston's schools, said his negotiating goals were not to squeeze teachers but to improve education. And he and several other school officials acknowledged that if they wanted to persuade state legislatures to increase financing for their financially strapped districts, they needed to push for some of the changes that legislators wanted.
"There is great pressure on public schools here and across the country to improve, and that means we've got to focus on the things we do well and change those things we don't do well," Mr. Payzant said. "We have to find a way to be flexible and nimble in schools to compete with charter schools and those who are advocating vouchers."
For example, he said loosening seniority rules would make it easier for principals to assemble a faculty that they believed to be most appropriate for their schools.
Pedro Ramos, president of the Philadelphia School Board, said: "This isn't just about modifying 35 years of work rules. This is about the future of public education in Philadelphia. We know that if all we do is keep the status quo, the school district will not survive financially or academically."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "On the Richter scale, I'd say the tensions are about an 8," said Jim Fay, a Boston teacher, who directed students onto buses on Tuesday at Russell Grammar School. Teachers have set an Oct. 11 strike deadline. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON TEACHERS (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SHORTAGES TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); STRIKES (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



469 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: All the World's a Campus;
Top Business Schools Have No Borders

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The University of Chicago's newest classroom building seems like a riddle unto itself.
It is not actually new; it originally opened in 1885. It features not gargoyles and spires, as the university's neo-Gothic campus does, but gold-plated carvings and hand-painted tiles. And it is not anywhere near Chicago. In fact, it sits directly across the street from the offices of the current president of Singapore. 
 But sure enough, some 84 students filed into the building -- a former plantation house owned by a Chinese spice merchant who lived in Singapore -- this week to start a two-year M.B.A program that is part of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. The students, mostly executives in their 30's, represent the new campus's first class, and they personify the expansionist dreams of the best-known American business schools.
Imitating the companies they study, some of the business schools are spending millions of dollars to set up satellite operations around the globe. The schools' rationale for expansion mimics the goals of international companies as well: they hope to find new sources of revenue, establish a brand name in far-away places and learn lessons about how other markets function.
Chicago's Singapore building is modeled after one in Barcelona that the school built in the 1990's. Last month, Duke began offering classes in Frankfurt and will open a campus there in January. The Harvard Business School has set up research centers in Hong Kong and Buenos Aires and plans to add another in Europe. Northwestern and the University of Pennsylvania are collaborating with McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, to create the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad next year.
Some of Europe's top schools have undertaken similar initiatives. The London Business School and Columbia are accepting applications for the first class of an M.B.A. program they will jointly run. Meanwhile, not far from Chicago's Singapore campus, Insead, a 40-year-old business school based in Fontainebleau, France, opened its own M.B.A. program at the start of 2000.
"If you're going to be a major business school," said Gary D. Eppen, a deputy dean at Chicago who oversees the Singapore program, "we think it's important that you be represented in the major economic cities of the world."
Much of the activity is in Asia, where there is no internationally known M.B.A. program but where thousands of students want the degree. "There's going to be a great talent pool to tap," said Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, who sits on the advisory board of the Indian School of Business along with the top executives of DaimlerChrysler, GE Capital, Royal Dutch/Shell and other large companies.
"These economies are changing rapidly, and we all need business leaders who understand the dynamics of technology-driven global marketplaces within the context of their own business realties," Mr. Paulson said.
For the universities, the new campuses also represent one of the most elaborate experiments yet undertaken in so-called distance learning -- the use of the Internet to teach classes. The new M.B.A. programs are something of a middle ground between traditional on-campus courses of study, which require students to live near one another and their professors, and the less expensive online-only degrees now being offered by for-profit schools like Jones International University.
Instead, at most of the foreign outposts, students spend a week or two studying with professors who have flown in from the home campus to teach them. They then take about a month off from classes, return to their jobs and do homework at night and over the weekend. They use e-mail to bounce ideas off one another and to pose questions to teachers living thousands of miles away.
In essence, the schools are betting that there is a substantial number of managers in other countries who are willing to pay a large premium to receive a prestigious American degree, rather than attending a local school that awards M.B.A.'s.
Jeanette Wong is a typical customer. A native of Singapore who has worked for J. P. Morgan the last 14 years, she runs its office there and helps manage its foreign exchange, bond and other markets-oriented businesses. But Ms. Wong still thought she needed the kind of detailed training that rarely comes on the job.
"The world is changing so fast," she said. "I'm looking for fresh insights."
Given her experience, she was not sure she would learn enough at any of Singapore's local M.B.A. programs to justify the time it would take to earn the degree. Traveling to Hong Kong or another city for a part-time program was out of the question, she added, because she and her husband have 10- and 12-year-old sons.
So Ms. Wong applied to the first class of Chicago's new program -- largely because of the school's reputation for quantitative rigor, she said -- and is paying out of her own pocket $65,000 for the two-year program. The tuition is more than twice what another program in Singapore would have cost, she said.
Yet in contrast to students in those other programs, Ms. Wong will have only limited access to her teachers. Once every six weeks, two Chicago professors will fly to Singapore to teach five days of intensive classes in marketing or finance and then return to the United States.
That schedule, which is similar to Chicago's in Barcelona and Duke's in Frankfurt, contains potential problems for both the students and faculty members. The students will have much less of an opportunity to have impromptu discussions with their teachers -- and each other -- than they would at a full-time program. Schools, meanwhile, have to convince their professors to fly halfway around the world every year to keep the programs afloat. Otherwise, they must rely on part-time teachers and can no longer credibly say that the programs are similar to the American versions.
The programs can become a large new revenue stream for the schools, however. Because companies often pay the tuition bills for their executives, business schools are sometimes able to charge considerably more for part-time programs than they do for full-time programs.
Deans say most of the difference covers additional lodging and technology costs. Still, the numbers can quickly become attractive for academic institutions with modest budgets. For example, Duke will take in about $15 million this year solely from the students in its two international programs, one that meets both in Frankfurt and on the Duke campus in Durham, N.C., and the other that meets in several cities around the world over two years.
There are intangible benefits, too, deans say.
In the United States, the combination of a strong economy and a relatively small number of people in their 20's has caused applications to full-time M.B.A. programs to drop at most top schools the last two years. Without the continuing boom in foreign applicants, particularly from Asia, the drop would be even steeper. By building campuses overseas, the schools tap new pools of students who do not want to move to the United States for a full-time M.B.A. program and also broadcast their names to those who are considering a move.
In addition, the new programs force faculty members to put their research in the context of another country. "We can't just take our notes and use them in Europe or Asia without any changes," said Robert S. Hamada, Chicago's dean.
This is not the first time that business schools have looked overseas. About a decade ago, as students and corporate executives were criticizing M.B.A. programs as too focused on the United States, some schools began offering classes abroad, too.
One of the first was the University of Michigan, which began teaching M.B.A. classes in Hong Kong in 1991. It limited enrollment to the executives of a small group of companies that had agreed to support the program. Other schools, like Northwestern, have signed partnerships with foreign schools and award degrees jointly. But the Asian financial crisis delayed some of the most expensive projects, like Chicago's Singapore campus.
Arguably the most ambitious of the current round of efforts is the Indian School of Business. Conceived by Rajat Gupta, a native of India who is McKinsey's managing director, the school plans to open next year in Hyderabad, a technology-heavy city in the south-central part of the country.
The program will last one year and, unlike the Chicago and Duke programs, and will require students to quit their jobs to enroll full time. For faculty, the Indian school will rely on other universities -- mainly Northwestern and Pennsylvania -- for half of its teachers and hire its own professors for the other half.
Tapping the local talent pool helps solve one of the biggest problems facing the globalization of the American business school: a decided lack of wanderlust on the part of some research-minded professors. "The main challenge is how do you get your faculty to go to these locales year after year," said Russ Winter, a professor of marketing at the University of California at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, who is on a committee now trying to decide whether the school should start a program in Asia. "Two weeks or three weeks in a foreign locale is not conducive to research productivity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even the architecture of the University of Chicago's business school building in Singapore suggests it has expanded its reach. Chicago is among a number of top business schools that have extended their operations overseas. (Alex Tan for The New York Times)(pg. C1); No, it's not the Midwest. Michael Block, a student, gives his wife, Gabriela Bevardone, a tour of Chicago's campus in Singapore. (Alex Tan for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Chart/Map: "Where East Meets West"
Some of the best-known business schools in the United States and Europe are establishing operations in Asia. Here are several examples.
 
FULL-TIME SCHOOLS
A joint venture between the University of Pennsylvania and Northwestern scheduled to open next year Program founded by Insead, a French business school
 
BRANCH OPERATIONS
University of Chicago
 
RESEARCH CENTER
Run by Harvard
 
ASIAN ALLIANCES
Part-time program run by Northwestern and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Part-time program run by Northwestern and Chulalongkorn University(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SINGAPORE (95%); HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (91%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); INDIA (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY; HONG KONG UNIVERSITY; CHULALONGKORN UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; INSEAD (FRENCH BUSINESS SCHOOL) MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY; HONG KONG UNIVERSITY; CHULALONGKORN UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; INSEAD (FRENCH BUSINESS SCHOOL) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG; BANGKOK (THAILAND); SINGAPORE; HYDERABAD (INDIA); INDIA; UNITED STATES (96%); SINGAPORE (95%); HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (91%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); INDIA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BUSINESS SCHOOLS; AMERICANS ABROAD; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS BUSINESS EDUCATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: ;LEONHARDT, DAVID HENRY PAULSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



470 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Disputes Threat From Lack of Space

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that an article in The New York Times yesterday was unfair to New York because it created an impression that the city's future economic growth was imperiled by a shortage of office space.
The article said that a severe lack of office space was posing a challenge to the city's ability to retain companies and attract new businesses. Although Mr. Giuliani did not dispute any facts in the article, he said during a news conference that the city's growth was not in danger. 
 "Since I've been in office, there've been 27 projects totaling 25.5 million square feet of new office space completed or under way," the mayor said. He added that the amount of office space created in New Jersey for Manhattan businesses moving across the Hudson River was minuscule compared with new construction under way in New York City.
"Yes, there's growth in New Jersey," Mr. Giuliani said. "That's a healthy thing. We can't handle everything. We have limited space. And at this point there are some people who feel we're too crowded in terms of the number of buildings we have, the office space we have, and what we're producing for our economy. And our economy is doing better than it's been doing in about 40 years.
"However, the article also gives the impression that we're not staying ahead of the curve," he added. "That also is not true." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



471 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Judges' Group Opposes Bill to Limit Seminar Participation

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The judges who set policy for the federal court system voted today to oppose new limits on the ability of judges to attend privately sponsored seminars and educational programs.
The vote by the Judicial Conference of the United States, a 27-member group that held its semiannual meeting at the Supreme Court today, came in response to a recent Senate bill to prohibit federal judges from accepting "anything of value" -- meaning reimbursement of expenses -- "in connection with a seminar." 
 Such a ban was "overly broad" and raised "potential constitutional issues," including the prospect of government censorship, the Judicial Conference said in a resolution adopted during its regular closed session. The resolution said the bill, sponsored by two Democratic senators, John Kerry of Massachusetts and Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, could have the unintended effect of keeping judges from taking part in programs of bar associations and law schools.
The two senators introduced the bill on July 27 after a report by Community Rights Counsel, a public interest law firm here, criticized federal judges for attending expense-paid seminars on economic and environmental issues sponsored by private groups that oppose much government regulation. The bill would increase financing for the Federal Judicial Center, an arm of the court system that conducts research and training, to reimburse judges for the expense of attending seminars conducted in a manner that maintains "the public's confidence in an unbiased and fair-minded judiciary."
At a news conference today at the Supreme Court, Chief Judge Ralph K. Winter Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, said the bill would require the center to examine not only the content and source of money for all seminars but also the "litigation activities" of the sponsor and anyone on the program.
Judge Winter, the chairman of the Judicial Conference's executive committee, said the proposal appeared to call for "explicit content regulation," which would "very much alter the institutional role of the Federal Judicial Center" and impose "a very draconian ban in one of the most sensitive areas of our public life, the marketplace of ideas."
In a report accompanying the resolution, the executive committee said the bill was a hasty and "inappropriate response to a highly complex question" that Congress should not address without holding hearings and inviting public participation. "This is not a time for hasty legislation that may well be more dangerous than the concerns it is designed to allay," it said.
Judge Winter also said the Judicial Conference would not necessarily oppose all Congressional intervention but that the judges could not respond to proposals that had not been made.
The Judicial Conference concluded two years ago that judges should not participate in seminars if the sponsors or underwriters were involved or likely to be involved in litigation. Judges are required to report reimbursements as gifts on their annual financial disclosure forms. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF UNITED STATES JUDGES' GROUP (62%); JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER (55%); FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF UNITED STATES JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER (55%); FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JUDGES; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); SPONSORSHIP (58%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; KERRY, JOHN F (SEN); FEINGOLD, RUSSELL D (SEN) JOHN KERRY (92%); RALPH K WINTER (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



472 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Nasdaq Increases Sharply In a Technology Rebound
Technology stocks, under pressure for much of September, moved sharply higher, driving the Nasdaq composite index to its biggest one-day gain in more than three months. A good day in the bond market and a dip in oil prices provided a positive backdrop for stocks.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 139.12 points, or 3.7 percent, to 3,865.64. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.39 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,459.90, while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 19.23 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,789.29. Page C10. 

More Deaths Are Cited in Tire Case
Federal regulators said that since Aug. 31 they had received complaints of 15 more deaths attributed to Firestone tires on sport utility vehicles and pickups, raising to 103 the number of deaths under review. But officials cautioned that they had not determined how many of the complaints involved tires that had failed. C2.
 
Sun to Buy Web Appliance Maker
Sun Microsystems said that it had agreed to acquire Cobalt Networks, which produces Web appliances, in a stock swap valued at $2 billion. Acquiring Cobalt lets Sun address a fast-growing portion of the market that could not be reached readily with its own typically more expensive and more complex products. Shares of Sun gained $2.44, to $117.69, while Cobalt increased $16.06, or nearly 40 percent, to $57.19. C9.
 
U.S. Antitrust Chief to Step Down
Joel I. Klein, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division and chief architect of the government's case against Microsoft, announced that he would step down. C2.
 
Ads Bolster Retail Sales of Drugs
Advertising to consumers has stimulated a surge in retail spending on prescription drugs, the fastest-growing item in the nation's health care budget, a new study says. A18.
 
Concessions Made for Joint Venture
Time Warner and EMI Group proposed what they called "substantial" concessions that might include selling some of their record labels in an effort to keep European regulators from blocking their plan to merge their music businesses into a joint venture. C9.
 
Japan Prepares Spending Package
Japan is preparing another package of supplemental spending aimed at propping up the economy, which has failed to gain enough momentum on its own despite several previous injections of money. C4.
 
American Works the Puzzle of China
Being the general manager of Xerox's operations in China has required Howard Holley to make adjustments in the way he does business. But the business challenges are no greater than other puzzles he has faced there. Shanghai consistently exceeds expectations, he says. It's a city of dichotomies -- the extremes of China all rolled into one. He relishes the challenge. The Boss. C8.
 
Death on Plane Ruled a Homicide
A passenger who tried to break into the cockpit during a Southwest Airlines flight was killed by passengers who restrained him, and not by a heart attack, as had been reported. A medical examiner ruled the death a homicide, but the authorities decided that there was no evidence of criminal intent and declined to bring charges. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C5.
 
Price of E-Book Device Set at $300
Thomson Multimedia has priced its hand-held devices for reading electronic books. At about $300, they are unlikely to speed the adoption of e-books by the mass market. C5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,789.29 down 19.23
Nasdaq composite -- 3,865.64 up 139.12
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.91% down 0.04
The euro -- $0.8515 up 0.0031
The dollar -- 106.94yen up 0.01
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade figures (July figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -$3.10 billion
 
Graph tracks Sun Microsystems share price since Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (66%); 5108 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (56%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (51%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (66%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); EMI GROUP LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EAST CHINA (51%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (97%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); TIRES (78%); BONDS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (70%); HOMICIDE (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); RETAIL SALES (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



473 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

 BODY:

THE REPUBLICANS
 
BRASS FOR BUSH
Gov. George W. Bush, who has sharply criticized the Clinton administration's defense policies, has picked up the endorsement of several retired military leaders, including senior officers who served in influential positions under President Clinton. The list, to be announced today by Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, in Lancaster, Calif., includes Adm. Jay L. Johnson, who stepped down as the Navy's top admiral in July, and Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf, who also retired this summer. Others include two former commandants of the Marine Corps, Gen. Charles C. Krulak and Gen. Carl Mundy Jr.; and two former chiefs of the Air Force, Gen. Ronald R. Fogelman and Gen. Merrill A. McPeak, all of whom served under President Clinton. The officers are part of a new group called "Veterans for Bush-Cheney." Steven Lee Myers (NYT) 

THE RUNNING MATES
 
RUNNING FOR ECONOMIST
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman said yesterday that Gov. George W. Bush showed a flawed understanding of the national economy when he said this week that he would not retreat from a tax cut in the middle of a recession but would cut even more, even at the risk of creating a "short-term deficit." That approach might worsen a recession, Mr. Lieberman said at a campaign stop in Fresno, Calif. "We can't afford that," he declared. "Deficits lead to higher interest rates, and what does that mean? Higher mortgage payments. Higher car payments. Higher student loan payments." He predicted that Mr. Bush's plan for a $1.3 billion tax cuts over the next decade would lead to deficits and noted that even Republican leaders in Congress had not advocated so large a cut. Vice President Al Gore has proposed a $500 million package of tax cuts. Richard Perez-Pena (NYT)
 
SEE DICK RUN. SEE DICK FISH.
Dick Cheney is an avid, even fanatical, fly fisherman. His Secret Service code name is Angler. On the stump he often talks wistfully about forgoing the fall fishing season in order to campaign for the vice presidency. So he looked more than pleased on Monday when he took a break from policy speeches and led his entourage and motorcade to Kaufmann's Fly Fishing, just outside Portland, Ore. After looking over the fly boxes, $600 rods and all-weather gear, he picked up a rod and reel and headed out to the parking lot to show off a few graceful casts, nearly landing a television camera crew. Then he headed back to dry reality, a Chamber of Commerce speech. Michael Cooper (NYT)
 
THE HOUSE
 
TAKE MY MONEY, PLEASE
Sometimes candidates raise more campaign cash than they can use and start giving the excess to candidates who have come up short. So when Representative Peter R. Deutsch, a four-term Democrat from Florida's 20th Congressional District, at the tip end of the state, offered to give some excess cash to the Democratic National Committee to help elect Al Gore, there was no great surprise. He had almost $2.5 million in his kitty and essentially no place to spend it because his only challenger in November is a write-in candidate, Ed Kopanski of Key West. Besides, Mr. Gore is scrambling hard to snatch Florida away from Gov. George W. Bush, whose brother Jeb is the state's governor. Then the check came in, for a whopping $250,000. Democratic fund-raisers say the contribution may be the largest of its kind ever from a member of Congress to a national campaign. Mr. Deutsch, who campaigned for Mr. Gore during the primary season and held a fund-raiser for him in April that pulled in more than $400,000, says he sent in his big check because while the Gore-Lieberman ticket has made good progress in recent weeks, it still lags in fund-raising. (NYT)
 
THE GREEN PARTY
 
NOT WORRIED ABOUT SOCIAL SECURITY
Ralph Nader said yesterday that the Social Security retirement program is sound and all those cries of crisis by other presidential candidates are nothing but political propaganda that is needlessly scaring voters. "The idea that Social Security is going to run out of money is simply nonsense," he told reporters in Washington yesterday. "Panic fueled by opportunistic politicians and investment firms poses the only serious threat to the program." He derided suggestions that the country consider privatizing all or parts of the program or financing it with money from other government programs and sources. The plan as is will pay reasonable benefits at least for the next half-century if the economy stays healthy, he said, adding that any unlikely shortages that might crop up could be handled by taxing things like stock transactions, options and executive bonuses. He then proposed increasing benefits for widows and low-income workers. (Reuters)
 
THE TRAVEL LOG
With Al Gore starting his day in Los Angeles and ending it in Silicon Valley, he lagged a bit in the frequent-flier sweepstakes with George W. Bush who traveled from Chicago to Lexington, Ky., to Pittsburgh. But today's another day.
 
Here are the stats for Tuesday:
Length of the Official Day: Gore, 12 hours; Bush, 13 hours
States Visited: Gore, 1; Bush, 3
Towns and Cities Visited: Gore, 4; Bush, 3
Events: Gore, 2; Bush, 2.
Interviews: Gore, 1; Bush, 3
Diners Visited/Unscheduled Drop-bys: Gore, 1; Bush, 0
Main message: Gore, working families; Bush, middle class 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (57%); US AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SPORT FISHING (88%); TAX LAW (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AIR FORCES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (89%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



474 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: OPENING TO CHINA: NEWS ANALYSIS;
New Realism Wins the Day

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Senate's overwhelming vote today to give permanent trade benefits to China ended a clash between America's global economic interests and the notion that the United States could use the annual threat of trade sanctions to change Beijing's behavior.
In the end, it wasn't even close -- and behind that lies a new reality in how the United States deals with China, the world's most populous nation. 
 Despite the huge margin by which President Clinton won today -- 83 to 15, his biggest legislative victory in the foreign policy arena since the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 -- the reversal of policy toward China cemented into law today was hardly assured, given all the impediments over the years.
During the last four years alone, it looked like the effort to normalize trade relations could be derailed by allegations of Chinese meddling in American elections, by accusations that Chinese spies had stolen American nuclear secrets, by considerable evidence that China still ships missiles to Pakistan, by Chinese threats against Taiwan.
Indeed, the measure passed today despite the State Department's recent conclusion that China's human rights violations have, if anything, grown more egregious this year. And it passed precisely seven weeks before a presidential election, even though labor unions viewed the accord as a threat to their jobs and strongly hinted that they would punish Democrats who supported it.
Yet every time a crisis erupted and receded, China's economic and political role in the world seemed to loom ever larger, from Motorola plants in Illinois to farms in Iowa. Over time it became clear that Congress' periodic threat that it would refuse to renew China's annual trade status was empty, and the Chinese came to dismiss it as saber-rattling.
Meanwhile, American business became more energized about stabilizing the economic relationship with China -- and therefore preserving their ballooning investments there -- than on any other issue in recent legislative history.
So today senators of every stripe ended up voting for the trade bill. That included Fred Thompson, the Republican from Tennessee who conducted the campaign finance investigation and last week derided the "little people" in the business community who "need to be taken down a notch" because they orchestrated the defeat of an amendment to the trade bill that would have punished China for the spread of arms.
Now, though, the hard part starts.
Arguments still rage about whether the North American Free Trade Agreement helped or hurt the booming American economy. In the case of China, the facts are different: all the trade concessions were on China's part, the price of entering the World Trade Organization. Nonetheless, it can be expected that China will begin to drag its heels on carrying them out, for fear that letting in American steel will wipe out huge state-owned industries or letting in Japanese and American cars will threaten China's efforts to become the next industrial behemoth.
But the real test will come as America tries to use its deepening trade relationship as leverage to open China's political system.
Mr. Clinton won the battle over trade with China by first convincing himself, and then helping convince Congress, that rejecting normal economic ties with the world's most populous country would hurt the American economy, and benefit Japanese and European competitors. Then he gradually elevated the argument from the economic to the strategic, making the case that rejection would also help political hard-liners in China who are certain that America's real agenda is to contain growing Chinese power.
"The argument that made the difference in the Yellow Oval Room had to do with what happens if this didn't pass," said Samuel R. Berger, the president's national security adviser, referring to the room in the White House residence where Mr. Clinton twisted arms. "We would undermine China's reforms, scare the daylights out of our allies, and send a message to the world that at the pinnacle of our power we are in retreat."
Mr. Clinton today celebrated his victory with a line he used often during those nighttime sales pitches, telling reporters this afternoon, "We will find, I believe, that America has more influence in China with an outstretched hand than with a clenched fist."
And in the next breath, as eager as always to repair the breach with unions and environmentalists and others who believe they were sold out by the White House, he insisted that opening China to more commerce with shrink the control of the government. "It will strengthen those within China who fight for higher labor standards, a cleaner environment, for human rights and the rule of law," he said. Maybe he will be proven right, maybe not -- it will be years, maybe decades, before anyone can judge. As Mr. Clinton himself acknowledged today, "none of us should think for a moment that any of these outcomes are guaranteed."
But what makes the experiment interesting is that only eight years ago both the Congress and Mr. Clinton were headed in precisely the opposite direction.
In 1992, when memories of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre were still vivid, Congress made the annual renewal of China's trading rights conditional on a range of changes in Beijing. President Bush vetoed the measure. The Senate fell just short of the two-thirds vote needed to override him -- which would have essentially terminated China's trading privileges with the United States -- by a vote of 60 to 38.
Within months, Mr. Clinton was charging Mr. Bush with "coddling dictators." It was not until he arrived in the White House, and spent a year unsuccessfully trying to link trade with China's human rights record, that Mr. Clinton ended a fierce fight within the White House and reversed himself. He became a passionate adherent of Mr. Bush's policy -- and took it several steps further.
"This was a case where Clinton's new position gathered momentum slowly," said Lee Hamilton, the former Indiana congressman who spent much of his career dealing with China issues. "Tiananmen seems like a long time ago. Then the business interests started lobbying this very hard. And good economic times have been a factor: People are now persuaded that trade has a lot to do with our prosperity."
But not everyone is persuaded -- not by a long shot. Those who voted "no" included a hardy band of China's strongest critics on the left and right, liberals like Paul Wellstone, the Minnesota Democrat, and Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who heads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Then there were the disillusioned, but resigned, human rights advocates. Mike Jendrzejczyk, a top official of Human Rights Watch, noted that the timing of the vote "is particularly unfortunate, just as human rights conditions are worsening."
"Beijing is closing down all channels of political dissent -- including the Internet," he added, "even while it is opening its economy."
Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, who finished the 13-year negotiations with China over the rules under which it would enter the World Trade Organization, said in an interview this week that she learned two major lessons from the roller-coaster effort to negotiate the huge accord.
"The first is that you need an economic agreement whose advantages are beyond any doubt," she said. In fact, one of the differences between this debate and the arguments over the North American trade pact is that few, save for the most ardent union leaders, argued that the China trade deal would send American jobs overseas. ("No one ever made that case to me," Mr. Berger said. "I was amazed.")
But the second argument, Ms. Barshefsky said, is that, "You can only get trade agreements this big if you put them in a broader security framework, and link it to the security of the United States, or peace in Asia." That, of course, is the hallmark of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy: The linkage of trade to broader diplomatic goals. Essentially, he is betting that China cannot open its markets without also opening its political system. It cannot let in Amazon.com, he believes, without also letting any Dissidents.org broadcast their message around China. The Chinese leaders also believe that their entry into the W.T.O. will bring about change, ushering in foreign technology and foreign capital. But they think it is change they can manage and control.
Today's vote has cemented in place the Clinton imprint on American foreign policy, the use of economic engagement to foster political change. But the judgment about whether he has created a second opening to China depends, in the end, on what China's leaders do with the economic and political opportunity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton at the White House after the trade bill vote. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, yesterday. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (67%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (67%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (88%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



475 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Play of the Weak

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Alas, poor euro! Europe's new currency, proudly introduced less than two years ago at a value of $1.17, has fallen to a humiliating 85 cents. And things look rotten in the state of Denmark, where next week's referendum -- to be or not to be part of European monetary union, that is the question -- looks likely to result in defeat for the pro-euro forces.
Over the weekend, when finance ministers from the major industrial nations meet in Prague, the slumping euro will surely dominate the discussion. Europeans would very much like the United States to join them in intervening -- that is, buying euros and selling dollars -- to drive up the euro's value. By all accounts, America won't go along. But it should. 
 Let me admit that I have come around to this view only with great reluctance. As a general rule, big economies like the United States or the European Union can and should be relaxed about fluctuations in exchange rates; I regarded the wailing as the euro sank from $1.17 to $1 as much ado about nothing. Furthermore, attempts to manipulate currencies through intervention have a bad track record; they usually fail, and when they fail the currency and the credibility of the government plunge in tandem. (Prime Minister John Major tried to prop up Britain's pound in 1992; the embarrassing failure of that attempt is one of the main reasons Tony Blair is prime minister today.)
But there are times when general rules don't apply, and this looks like one of them. Yesterday Michael Mussa, chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, put it this way: "Circumstances for intervention are very rare, but they do arise. One has to ask, if not now, when?" Indeed.
Why is intervention usually a bad idea? Because foreign exchange markets are immense -- so immense that even a huge government intervention will be blown away if it tries to stand in the way of firmly held market sentiment. The Major government threw some $50 billion into the defense of the pound in 1992; the market, convinced that the pound had nowhere to go but down, swallowed that sum with hardly a burp, and the pound kept falling.
But sometimes a run on a currency is driven not so much by economic fundamentals as by herd mentality. When the herd is running, there is a case for what people at the Fed call "slap in the face" intervention. Basically, by ostentatiously buying a currency that is plunging for no good reason, the authorities pull investors up short, forcing them to consider if they really want to bet against the finance ministries and the central banks. If all goes well the market in effect shakes its head, says "Thanks -- I needed that," and returns to its senses.
And the fall in the euro now looks very much like herd behavior. To justify the euro's current weakness you have to believe not only that America's "new economy" will keep delivering spectacular growth indefinitely, but that Europe will never experience a comparable surge of its own. And that just isn't plausible. The extraordinary weakness of the euro is possible only because investors, focused on the short term, have stopped thinking about tomorrow -- or maybe the day after tomorrow. That's exactly the kind of situation in which intervention is likely to succeed -- but probably only if the United States joins in.
Should we take that risk? No question, there are risks: The intervention might fail, damaging our own credibility; or it might succeed too well, sending the dollar into free fall. But there are also risks in not intervening.
America, after all, has some direct interest in seeing a more reasonable euro: the weakness in Europe's currency has reached the point where it is starting to hurt the bottom line of the many U.S. corporations for whom Europe is an important market. But the really compelling reason to help Europe now is to set a precedent. Despite its shambolic start, the euro is not going to vanish -- indeed, it will be one of the world's two great currencies in the years ahead. And while it may seem hard to imagine in these days of the almighty dollar, there will someday come a time when we would like the Europeans to support our currency. Let's do unto others now as we would have them do unto us then. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (55%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HERD BEHAVIOR (63%); REFERENDUMS (57%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



476 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate: For Skyscraper Museum, A Home at Ground Level;
Space Donated in Battery Park City Tower

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
The Skyscraper Museum finally has a skyscraper to call its own.
Since 1997, in exhibitions, books, lectures and Web pages, the museum has chronicled buildings: old buildings and new buildings, famous buildings and common buildings, razed buildings and planned buildings, slender buildings and jumbo buildings. 
 Only one thing has been missing. A building.
Without a permanent home, the embryonic institution has bounced from 44 Wall Street to 16 Wall Street to 110 Maiden Lane (its last whereabouts as of yesterday evening), depending on the kindness of landlords and the brief availability of empty retail space for temporary rent-free quarters.
So it was with particular satisfaction that Carol Willis, the founding director of the Skyscraper Museum, bicycled up to the curving concrete shell of the 38-story Ritz-Carlton hotel and condominium apartment tower, now rising at Battery Park City, and pointed to the ground-floor space.
"This is my corner right here," Ms. Willis said.
At least it will be late next year, when the museum opens, a month or so after the completion of the $200 million Ritz-Carlton project, developed by Millennium Partners on a 70-year land lease from the Battery Park City Authority.
Through Philip E. Arons, a principal in Millennium and a museum board member, the developers will donate 5,800 square feet to the Skyscraper Museum, space that Mr. Arons estimated would be worth $3 million were it put to retail use.
Bidders for the hotel site, the southernmost parcel on the 92-acre Battery Park City landfill, were encouraged by the authority to include a public amenity in their plans.
"One of the reasons Millennium Partners were selected was because of their partnering with the museum," said Timothy S. Carey, president and chief executive of the authority. "We're in essence creating a museum district."
Directly across Battery Place from the site of the Skyscraper Museum is the Museum of Jewish Heritage: A Living Memorial to the Holocaust, which opened in 1997 and is planning an addition. One block north, Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed the Museum of Women: The Leadership Center. The authority will request development proposals for that site early next year, Mr. Carey said.
Battery Park City was not what Ms. Willis had in mind when she asked Mr. Arons to join the board. She met him in the 1980's when he and her husband, Mark A. Willis, worked in the Koch administration. And she admired the developer's interest in the arts.
One day in 1997, she recalled, Mr. Arons telephoned. "He said: 'Hi, Carol. I'm putting the museum in my proposal for Battery Park City. Is that O.K.?' Of course, he knew it would be. It was that simple."
But there is nothing simple about trying to tell the towering story of the skyscraper in space the size of a bistro or a duty-free shop.
That challenge led Roger F. Duffy, an architect in Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, to propose what may be the museum's most striking feature: polished stainless-steel floors and ceilings, a vertical hall of mirrors. Because the display cases will be flush with both surfaces, they will appear to extend limitlessly overhead and under foot; reflection in reflection in reflection.
"Skyscrapers are always getting bigger, taller, higher," Mr. Duffy said. "Our reflection gives you infinity. There's nothing bigger than that. The vitrines that house the artifacts also become skyscrapers of improbable proportion and infinite height."
To keep the ceiling surface uninterrupted, Mr. Duffy is incorporating ambient lighting in the display cases. Cooling and ventilating may take advantage of submarine technology, he said, with conditioned air expelled from high-pressure ducts in the display cases rather than through ceiling diffusers.
As far as the effect on the floor of foot traffic, Mr. Duffy said visitors might be given scuff-proof booties to wear. "We're going to make you polish the floors," he said.
The reflective theme will be carried over to a 15-foot-long display area on the mezzanine level that will, if the Buildings Department approves, cantilever over the sidewalk. With a two-way mirror at one end and a one-way mirror at the other, this room will give the impression of infinite space.
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, which is otherwise busy designing the new New York Stock Exchange, the new Pennsylvania Station and the Time Warner Center on the site of the New York Coliseum, donated its services, worth $300,000 to $400,000, to the Skyscraper Museum.
Not everything comes free. Ms. Willis is hoping to raise $3.5 million to complete the space and to design and install the permanent exhibition and $2.5 million for an endowment to cover operating expenses on a continuing basis.
Ms. Willis, 51, a Columbia-trained art historian and an adjunct professor in Columbia's School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, said the design was "perfectly, poetically fitted" to the museum, of which she also happens to be curator.
"The overall idea is breaking the boundaries about a subject that is too large for its space," she said. To Ms. Willis, the museum is a starting point, an orientation center for the city's collection of skyscrapers. Owners of landmark towers may expect to hear from her in coming years, as she would like to install vitrines in buildings around town that tell the story of the host structures and, of course, alert viewers to the Skyscraper Museum.
The museum's identity will be tied not only to its real estate at First Place and Battery Place -- critical though that is for getting into guide books and attracting donors -- but also to its curatorial approach.
Instead of focusing exclusively on architecture, the museum concerns itself with economics, technology, engineering, personalities, politics and marketing techniques, which also shape the skyline. Looked at this way, a tenant roll can be just as important as a blueprint, a photograph of a typical office module more insightful than a view of the ornate boardroom.
The first exhibition in 1997, "Downtown New York: The Architecture of Business/The Business of Buildings," was held in space at Wall and William Streets that is now a Charles Schwab brokerage branch. "Building the Empire State" (1998-99) and "Big Buildings" (1999) were held in a soaring, wood-paneled banking hall at Wall and Nassau Streets that is now an Equinox health club.
For the moment, the exhibition "Design/Development: Times Square" is in a utilitarian former bank branch at Maiden Lane and Pearl Street that the Rudin family has set aside until they sign a paying tenant. (Even after the museum moves out, it can still be found at www.skyscraper.org.)
"We are happy to provide the space," said William C. Rudin, the president of Rudin Management Company. "New York City should definitely have a Skyscraper Museum."
The Rudins are not alone in falling under Ms. Willis's persistent and persuasive spell, as she struggles -- sometimes, it seems, by dint of willpower alone -- to create a new cultural institution out of thin air.
"The museum lives and breathes because she's devoted her time and energy and has worked for years without any remuneration," Mr. Arons said, "and in my opinion has created an institution of extraordinarily high standards."
He said Ritz-Carlton executives were as enthusiastic as he was about the prospect of a museum on the ground floor. "This might be the kind of thing that would draw people to the hotel on weekends and holidays," Mr. Arons said.
The Ritz-Carlton Downtown will occupy the lower 13 floors of the tower, with 298 rooms. It will have a restaurant, lobby lounge, bar, fitness center and ballroom. The hotel will offer its services to the 122 apartments in the high-rise tower, which will be called the Residences at the Ritz-Carlton. These range in size from 809 to 4,300 square feet and in price from $600,000 to more than $6 million. About 50 have been sold.
Clearly, for the Skyscraper Museum, institutional adolescence is nearing an end. "It started with, 'Hey, kids, let's put on a show,' " Ms. Willis said. "Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney in a barn. On Wall Street."
"We're jumping," she said, "to a whole new scale."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, an architectural rendering for a new Skyscraper Museum at the 38-story Ritz-Carlton hotel and condominium apartment tower that is rising at Battery Park City, below. The museum is expected to open late next year. (Skidmore, Owings & Merrill); The architect is Roger F. Duffy and the museum's founding director is Carol Willis. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); A rendering of the exterior of the Skyscraper Museum, which will have its first permanent home. (Skidmore, Owings & Merrill)(pg. B1); Displays at the current (temporary) home of the Skyscraper Museum at 110 Maiden Lane in Lower Manhattan, which will have a permanent home in, appropriately enough, the 38-story Ritz-Carlton hotel. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SKYSCRAPER MUSEUM (NYC); RITZ-CARLTON HOTEL (NYC) RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SKYSCRAPER MUSEUM (NYC); RITZ-CARLTON HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BATTERY PARK CITY (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; MUSEUMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); HOLOCAUST (61%); LANDFILLS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIS, CAROL; DUNLAP, DAVID W MARK A WILLIS (76%); PHILIP E ARONS (66%); ROGER F DUFFY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



477 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: INDIANA SEAT;
Lugar Challenger, Underdog of Underdogs, Battles as If He's in a Race

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS

 BODY:
Trailing badly in statewide polls and outspent 3 to 1, David Johnson, the Democratic candidate for United States Senate here, figured the odds against his longshot campaign could not get much worse.
Of course, that was before his Republican opponent, the incumbent Richard G. Lugar, was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in August for his work to help reduce Russia's nuclear arsenal. 
 In the annals of underdog Senate races, Mr. Johnson's challenge is bobbing near the top. He picked his first political race to take on Mr. Lugar, a four-term senator, former presidential candidate and perhaps the most popular politician in Indiana history. An Indianapolis Star poll in early September had Mr. Lugar up by 50 points, with even Democrats narrowly favoring him.
But none of this seems to faze Mr. Johnson, 48, a smart, affable corporate lawyer and political adviser, who dismisses talk that he has been offered as a sacrificial lamb by party leaders to keep Mr. Lugar from spending too much time and money helping other Republican candidates here.
Mr. Johnson is running a spirited, if somewhat anonymous, campaign on the theme that Mr. Lugar, 68, has lost touch with what ordinary Hoosiers care about: education, health care and Social Security. With crop prices dropping, Mr. Johnson has also attacked the Freedom to Farm Act that Mr. Lugar championed to overhaul farm programs.
Poring over his rival's record since 1994, Mr. Johnson found that Mr. Lugar voted 83 percent of the time with Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the staunch conservative Republican, and repeatedly voted against new school financing and prescription-drug coverage for the elderly. "This is a guy who has just been missing in action, and at every opportunity has voted with the Jesse Helms wing in the Senate," Mr. Johnson said. "This is not that kind of state."
Mr. Lugar scoffs at the criticism, first noting that he has visited all 92 counties in the state this campaign and then dismissing attacks on his record as selective procedural votes cooked up by Democrats to embarrass Republicans. Mr. Lugar, for instance, has proposed a plan for Medicare recipients to join a drug-buying club that would offer steep discounts.
"If you're going to argue about being in touch, you have to offer some visible evidence that you've been to the communities, that you've met the leaders, that you know anybody," Mr. Lugar said. "I've been there. He has not."
Mr. Lugar, despite his commanding lead, seems to be nervously peeking over his shoulder at his upstart's challenge, and says he is not taking the outcome for granted.
Mr. Lugar has raised more than $4 million -- compared with $1.5 million for Mr. Johnson -- and has scheduled several fund-raisers through October. Mr. Lugar skipped the Republican National Convention this summer to stay home and campaign.
"I spent almost the entire month of August in Indiana to make absolutely sure that each of these counties was as secure and strong for our candidacy and other Republicans as possible," Mr. Lugar said.
In one of his television advertisements, Mr. Lugar is running away from his own party, taking credit for his defense of the popular federal school lunch program against efforts by House Republicans to slash it.
In the candidates' first televised debate in August, Mr. Johnson's attacks flustered the normally soft-spoken, unflappable senator. "The thought that Senator Helms and I are somehow in bed together there in the Senate is just ludicrous on the face of it," said Mr. Lugar, clearly agitated.
Mr. Johnson's big problem is that he is not well known. On paper and in person, he is an attractive candidate: son of a Presbyterian minister, Harvard Law School graduate, former Africa specialist on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and, like Mr. Lugar, a Rhodes Scholar.
But with Election Day fast approaching, Mr. Johnson is trying to accomplish in less than two months what Mr. Lugar has done over a quarter-century of public service: build a statewide name and reputation.
Only recently did Mr. Johnson air his campaign's first television advertisement. The Democratic National Committee spent $250,000 on a television commercial criticizing Mr. Lugar's record on education and health care, but it never mentions Mr. Johnson by name.
Mr. Johnson's struggle was evident when he recently attended services at the Eastern Star Baptist Church, the state's largest African-American congregation. As more than 500 parishioners filtered into an elementary school that served as a makeshift sanctuary, Mr. Johnson shook hands and drew blank stares.
"I haven't heard of him," said Crystal Crumes, a 34-year-old Internet recruiting specialist who considers herself a staunch Democrat.
Political analysts are skeptical that there are enough compelling issues to give Mr. Johnson's campaign the boost it needs. The state's economy is booming and the unemployment rate is around 3 percent, below the national level.
Nor is there any whiff of scandal to taint Mr. Lugar's respected record as a foreign policy expert, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee and one-time mayor and school board member in Indianapolis.
"In any other state, David Johnson would be an A-list challenger," said Rachel Gorlin, a media consultant who produced the Democratic Party advertisement. "But here, David's got to do everything right, and then have a lot of good luck."
Indeed, Mr. Johnson is clinging to the coattails of the state's popular incumbent Democratic governor, Frank L. O'Bannon, who is expected to be easily re-elected. While no Democratic presidential candidate has carried Indiana since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, Democrats have controlled the governor's mansion here since 1988.
The only advantage to a 50-point deficit in the polls, Mr. Johnson says cheerily, is that there is nowhere to go but up. If he can close that gap and generate momentum, Mr. Johnson said, a large Democratic turnout could propel him to an upset.
"When I got into this race, people thought I was delusional," he said. "But it's entirely a question of being able to have a sufficiently amplified voice to get the message out that people have a choice this year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Richard G. Lugar, right, the highly popular Republican incumbent in Indiana, is facing a spirited challenge from David Johnson, left, a little-known Democrat who appears undaunted by the lopsided figures in polls. Mr. Johnson greeted people recently at a school in Fishers, Ind. (Susana Raab for The New York Times); (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: INDIANAPOLIS STAR (57%); SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); INDIANA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; ELECTIONS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (74%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); AGING (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); MEDICARE (63%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DAVID; SCHMITT, ERIC; LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN) DICK LUGAR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



478 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: In Clinton's Words: 'An Outstretched Hand'

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Following is President Clinton's statement today in the White House Briefing Room on the Senate vote on trade relations with China, as transcribed by the Federal News Service.
Today the Senate voted to pave the way for permanent normal trade relations between the United States and China. This landmark agreement will extend economic prosperity at home and promote economic freedom in China, increasing the prospects for openness in China and a more peaceful future for all of us. 
 When we open markets abroad to U.S. goods, we open opportunities at home. This vote will do that. In return for normal trade relations, the same terms of trade we offer now to more than 130 other countries, China will open its markets to American products, from wheat to cars to consulting services. And we will be far more able to sell goods in China without moving our factories there.
But there's much more at stake here than our economic self-interest. It's about building a world in which more human beings have more freedom, more control over their lives, more contact with others than ever before, a world in which countries are tied more closely together and the prospects for peace are strengthened.
Trade alone won't create this kind of world. But bringing China under global rules of trade is a step in the right direction. The more China opens it markets to our products, the wider it opens its doors to economic freedom and the more fully it will liberate the potential of its people.
When China finishes its negotiations and joins the W.T.O., our high-tech companies will help to speed the information revolution there. Outside competition will speed the demise of China's huge state industries and spur the enterprise of private-sector involvement. They will diminish the role of government in people's daily lives. It will strengthen those within China who fight for higher labor standards, a cleaner environment, for human rights and the rule of law. And we will find, I believe, that America has more influence in China with an outstretched hand than with a clenched fist.
Of course, none of us should think for a moment that any of these outcomes are guaranteed. The advance of freedom ultimately will depend upon what people in China are willing to do to continue standing up for change. We will continue to help support them.
Peace and security in Asia will depend upon our military presence, our alliances, on stopping the spread of deadly weapons. Some will continue. So we will continue to be a force for peace, and we will not rest in our efforts to make sure that freer trade also is fairer trade.
These are some of the most important issues that our nation faces. That's why this vote was so important and, for many, so difficult. I want to thank Senator Lott and Senator Daschle, Senator Roth, Senator Moynihan and Senator Baucus, as well as those who led our effort in the House, and everyone within this administration who worked so hard to achieve this important milestone.
But I also want to acknowledge those who raised important questions about this policy and say to you this is not the end of the story. It is the beginning. We have a chance -- not a certainty, but a chance -- to strengthen our prosperity and our security and to see China become a more open society. Now our test as a nation is whether we can achieve that. I hope and I strongly believe that we will. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



479 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: OPENING TO CHINA: THE OVERVIEW;
SENATE VOTES TO LIFT CURBS ON U.S. TRADE WITH BEIJING; STRONG BIPARTISAN SUPPORT

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
After a long and often tumultuous struggle, a bill to remove restraints on trade with China passed the Senate today in a strong bipartisan vote, giving President Clinton what he considered one of his crowning foreign policy goals.
Coupled with approval by the House in May, the vote today ended the annual Congressional review of China's trade status, a ritual for 20 years that Beijing considered degrading but that critics argued was necessary to force China to improve its record on human rights and religious freedom. 
 After the historic vote, which passed with little debate today, Mr. Clinton told reporters, "This landmark agreement will extend economic prosperity at home and promote economic freedom in China, increasing the prospects for openness in China and a more peaceful future for all of us." Transcript and roll call, Page A16.
The broad margin of the victory, 83 to 15, was all the more remarkable coming less than two months before the presidential election, and after nine months of passionate debate. It demonstrated how a foreign policy issue could retain bipartisan backing even in the heat of a campaign.
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican presidential nominee, has supported the legislation. After the vote, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, Ray Sullivan, said, "This measure will help open markets to American products and help export American values, especially freedom and entrepreneurship."
Although Vice President Al Gore feared losing the support of allies in organized labor who opposed the measure as a threat to union jobs, he voiced qualified support for it today. But he stressed that American workers' rights must be protected. "We must combat unfair trade practices abroad when they harm our working families," Mr. Gore said.
Senate supporters hailed the deal, which will expand a vast overseas market for American goods, as a path-breaking step toward a new economic and security relationship. Senator Fred Thompson, a Tennessee Republican who tried unsuccessfully to amend the bill to penalize Chinese companies that export advanced weapons, voted for it but said he would continue to press China to curb its arms trafficking.
"Generally, free trade leads to freer markets, and freer markets can lead to more open societies," Mr. Thompson said in a statement. "I will keep pushing to hold the Chinese accountable for their actions."
Passage of the measure ensures that the United States will benefit fully from a market-opening accord that Washington and Beijing negotiated in November to slash Chinese tariffs on a range of farm and industrial products and removes barriers to American service providers, like banks and telecommunications companies. Almost everything from apples to wine will have a better chance of getting into the Chinese market.
The November agreement paves the way for China to enter the World Trade Organization, the 135-member group that sets the rules for global commerce. China will join the organization, probably later this year, and would have done so regardless of the vote today. But without Congress's blessing, China could have withheld some trade benefits from the United States that it extended to other members of the group.
"For U.S. farmers, businesses and working people, this agreement opens up a range of opportunities in China across all sectors and all fields of a magnitude unprecedented in the modern era," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative. Some parts of the pact have taken effect, she said, noting that orange exports to China from Florida and California, for instance, have risen 100-fold since May.
Dave McCurdy, president of the Electronic Industries Alliance, said, "From semiconductors to circuit boards, from PC's to cell phones, China is simply the most dynamic international market for U.S. high-tech exports."
Overall, the United States bought $82 billion worth of Chinese-made goods last year, $69 billion more than the value of what it sold to China. The trade deficit, America's second-largest, was slightly smaller than the one with Japan.
The bill's supporters warned that several challenges remain in dealing with China, most immediately resolving disputes over some agriculture tariffs and how Taiwan will join the Word Trade Organization at the same time as China. "We've got a lot of work ahead of us," said Senator Max S. Baucus, Democrat of Montana.
The outcome of the vote today was never in doubt. The fierce lobbying that pitted corporate America against labor and religious groups before the House's approval of the measure in May, by a vote of 237 to 197, never materialized in the upper chamber because all sides knew the question in the pro-trade Senate was never if the measure would pass, only when and by how much.
But supporters still faced a delicate procedural and political balancing act in the Senate, where lawmakers zealously guard their prerogatives and a lone senator has the power to delay the most popular bill.
Backers of the legislation said it was essential to press for a measure free of amendments because there was not enough time to reconcile an amended Senate bill with the House version before Congress adjourned for the year. "We knew we had the votes, but what was difficult was that there was no margin for error in the Senate," said Steve Ricchetti, a deputy White House chief of staff who was Mr. Clinton's point man for the bill in the Senate. "It had to pass exactly as it passed out of the House."
So supporters adopted a low-key strategy aimed at leaching from Senate consideration all of the volatile politics that enmeshed the House vote. Tactically, that meant having Mr. Clinton -- who eight years ago was on the opposite side, criticizing President George Bush's policy of engagement with China -- project enough support to show that he still cared deeply about the bill, but not raise the debate temperature high enough to prompt some foes to take the bill hostage to delay it.
When Mr. Clinton's original point man on the bill, Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, left the Cabinet in June to head Mr. Gore's presidential election campaign, some supporters worried that momentum was slipping away.
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, balked at scheduling a vote before the July 4 recess, arguing that the Senate had more pressing business in wrapping up many of the 13 must-pass spending bills that keep the government running. "If we go into September, our chances for passage drop precipitously," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, warned in late June.
And for a while, critics seemed to have a point. Just as the vote in the House created unusual political alliances between liberal labor groups and conservative religious organizations in opposition to the bill, the Senate bill produced odd political couplings. Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, perhaps the Senate's most liberal Democratic member, teamed up with Jesse Helms of North Carolina, one of the staunchest Republican conservatives, to back amendments on human rights, religious freedom and prison labor.
But the gloomy predictions proved wrong. Mr. Lott and Democrats agreed in late July to bring the bill up for a final vote after the five-week summer recess. Despite its long-simmering tensions with Taiwan, Beijing heeded private warnings from administration officials to avoid any diplomatic or military provocations that could fuel opposition to the bill.
The trade bill never became a political football, partly because pro-trade Republicans were loath to antagonize their corporate benefactors in a hotly contested election year, and labor leaders never believed that they could win enough Democrats.
One after another, 20 different amendments to improve human rights, religious freedom and labor standards in China fell by lopsided votes, not because senators opposed them on merit but because of their potential harm to the underlying bill.
A similar fate awaited the most popular amendment, sponsored by Mr. Thompson and Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, to penalize Chinese companies that trafficked in nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and long-range missiles. The measure struck an especially strong chord with lawmakers who had grown increasingly alarmed by intelligence reports of Chinese arms exports.
In the vote, all but 7 Democrats and 8 Republicans supported the bill. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who is Mr. Gore's running mate, was campaigning in California and Ohio and did not vote. Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, also did not vote.
Supporters said the agreement would benefit American business and values. "The Senate has cast an epic and overwhelming vote today," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York. "By so doing, we bring China back into the trading system that it helped to establish out of the ashes of the Second World War."
But opponents criticized the measure as one that would undercut America's moral authority in the world, and reward a government that threatens its neighbors, persecutes its citizens and sells advanced weapons to America's enemies.
"The safety and security of the American people come first," Mr. Helms said. "That safety and security will be ensured ultimately not by appeasement, not by the hope of trade at any cost, but by dealing with Communist China without selling out the very moral and spiritual principles that made America great in the first place."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
China Applauds Bill's Passage
By The New York Times
SHANGHAI, Wednesday, Sept. 20 -- China's Foreign Ministry today heralded the Senate's approval of the bill removing restraints on trade as paving the way for more stable relations with Washington.
At the same time, China criticized clauses in the bill intended to maintain pressure on Beijing to improve its human rights record. Hu Chusheng, spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, reiterated irritation at the human rights monitoring panel in the trade bill, saying it "still contains certain clauses that are irrelevant to trade and are intended to interfere in the internal affairs of China."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Max Baucus of Montana, a Democratic supporter of the bill, said "we've got a lot of work ahead of us" on other issues with China.; Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, with an official of the Garment Workers Union, who thanked him for seeking amendments to the bill.; Senators William V. Roth Jr. and Daniel Patrick Moynihan made a press statement yesterday praising the passage of the China trade bill. (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LABOR UNIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); APPROVALS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); FAMILY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (78%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



480 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Peru's President, Cheered by Supporters, Vows to Stay in Office Until Next Summer

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Sept. 19

 BODY:
In his first public appearance since he called for new elections and the dismantling of the National Intelligence Service, President Alberto K. Fujimori entered the Palace of Government tonight to the cheers of supporters and assured the nation that he was in full control and would remain in office until his successor is sworn in next July.
After climbing atop the palace gate and waving to the crowd, he went inside to give a televised address in which he said his decision last Saturday was a moral obligation to ensure stability and one that he made after a videotape surfaced that showed his close aide and intelligence chief apparently offering a $15,000 bribe to an opposition congressman. 
 The aide, Vladimiro Montesinos, has not been seen since Mr. Fujimori's announcement, and opponents have worried about the possibility of a coup, given Mr. Montesinos's close ties to high-ranking officers and the continued silence of the military.
"I am not saying goodbye yet," Mr. Fujimori said during an address that was by turns animated and jovial. "This message does not signify my immediate resignation. I am in full function."
He also insisted that he enjoyed the support of the commanding generals.
"There is no power vacuum," he said. "We will keep working intensively until the last days. The country is at peace and there is liberty for demonstrations and freedom of expression."
He was emphatic in saying that he arrived independently at his decision to call for new elections in which he would not run. He denied that he had been under pressure from the United States government, which along with other nations had questioned Mr. Montesinos's role in his government.
"I never received a call from anyone, and the United States does not act in that manner," he said. "We have good communication. We have been in dialogue and cooperation. But absolutely no calls or insinuations. Nothing. Zero. These decisions were the sovereign decisions of the President of Peru."
But when asked about Mr. Montesinos's whereabouts, Mr. Fujimori passed the microphone to the cabinet ministers who flanked him. Several times, the ministers said they did not know Mr. Montesinos's exact location, but added that he was in Lima and not under arrest. They said that he was still receiving official protection, given his role in combating terrorism and illegal narcotics, and that he was also entitled to due process regarding any criminal charges.
Mr. Fujimori also criticized his opponents, who he said had attacked him despite his success in fighting terrorists and improving the economy.
Earlier in the day, several of his opponents said that while they were willing to resume talks with his government to find a solution to the political crisis, they also had more videotapes with evidence of official misconduct. They had previously conditioned participation in such talks on Mr. Montesinos's arrest.
Their change of heart came one day after Mr. Fujimori instructed his cabinet to submit to Congress the necessary bills to have a new election.
The day's events came against a backdrop of deepening mystery about the whereabouts of Mr. Montesinos, and a continued silence from the military about the changes in government.
"There is a real situation of emergency and misinformation, so we can no longer remain on the margins," said Fernando Olivera, a congressman with the Independent Moralizing Front Party. "This does not mean we withdraw our demand for the arrest of Vladimiro Montesinos. What would happen is, it would be put on the table for discussion so together we can make the correct decision."
Opposition groups had been taking part in talks with the Fujimori government under the aegis of the Organization of American States, which was trying to bolster confidence in Peru after Mr. Fujimori won a controversial third term this year.
It was unclear today if the main opposition leader, Alejandro Toledo, who withdrew from the presidential race after accusing the government of rigging the election, had agreed to new talks. On Monday night he was acting like a candidate as he addressed a crowd of 10,000 cheering supporters at Plaza San Martin to propose a transitional government.
Mr. Olivera said today that this was not the time to campaign, but to find solutions, hoping that talks would bring about elections soon.
Yet Mr. Olivera, who set off the crisis when he made public the incriminating videotape, also tinged his overture with its own mystery when he announced that he had other damning videotapes. His assertion was backed up by Susana Higuchi, an opposition lawmaker and Mr. Fujimori's former wife.
"Obviously the military is pressuring Fujimori so there would not be a coup," she said at a midday news conference. "That is why we do not plan to release the other videos, because there would be chaos."
A senior Clinton administration official, however, said he did not think there was much appetite among officers for a coup in support of Mr. Montesinos.
The opposition released more details today about how Mr. Montesinos responded to the first videotape. Mr. Olivera said Mr. Montesinos's emissaries contacted him soon after the videotape was leaked and urged Mr. Olivera to reach an accommodation or face the possibility of a coup that would sweep away him and other opponents.
"We did not accept any pact," he said. "We are sure that no military adventure, no matter how bloody, would last for more than 24 hours."
He said the videotape had been given to him by "a patriot" who had risked his life and now had a bounty on his head. "Even to this day he is risking his life because he knows the methods they use to take reprisals," Mr. Olivera said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Alberto Fujimori, with his daughter Keiko atop the gate of the Palace of Government in Lima, addressed cheering crowds last night. (Associated Press); Peru's spy master, Vladimiro Montesinos, is at the center of the swirl of accusations of graft. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIMA, PERU (59%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; BRIBERY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); BRIBERY (74%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); DUE PROCESS (70%); TERRORISM (64%); ARRESTS (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (50%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%); 

PERSON: FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); MONTESINOS, VLADIMIRO; GONZALEZ, DAVID ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (94%); VLADIMIRO MONTESINOS (91%); FERNANDO OLIVERA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



481 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Decreeing The Trains On Time

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
A FARMER living on the RussianUkrainian border reads in the newspaper that national boundaries are about to be rejiggered in the postSoviet era. As a result, his village, in Russian territory all his life, will be considered part of Ukraine.
"Great news!" he says to his wife. "Now we wont have to go through another miserable Russian winter." 
 This joke came to mind after hearing that New York City Transit officials want to change the method used to grade themselves on whether the buses and subway trains run on time. Under the proposed change, they would look pretty good.
The share of trains deemed to be running on schedule, put most recently at 80.7 percent, would rise under the new system to 89.5 percent. The gain in bus service would look even better. Its reliability rating, now 56.4 percent, would soar to 76.7 percent.
On some routes, the improvement would be almost magical. Take the M101 bus, which runs up and down Third and Lexington Avenues. Voil! Faster than Clark Kent can turn into Superman, its positive rating of 33.8 percent would become 68.7 percent.
 Not only that, but the trains and buses would be deemed cleaner. Instead of 44 percent of subway cars being judged litterfree, as now, the figure would rise to 67 percent.
O.K., enough with the numbers. They will only make your head hurt. They also mask the fact that absolutely nothing will change for the most important person of all: the rider. That much is readily acknowledged by Albert W. OLeary, New York City Transits chief spokesman.
"The trains are not going to come any faster or slower, and they are not going to be any cleaner or dirtier," he said. So what's the point?
"We want a change that helps us manage better," Mr. OLeary said.
On one level, you have to sympathize with the subwaymeisters. They now judge how they're doing by way of a measurement called "service regularity." It is defined as follows:
"The percentage of intervals between trips departing from all scheduled timepoints, not including terminals, which is within plus or minus 50 percent of the scheduled interval (for all scheduled intervals less than 10 minutes), or, within plus or minus five minutes of the scheduled interval (for scheduled intervals of 10 minutes or more)."
Did you catch all that?
We didn't think so.
Here's a CliffsNotes version. A train is now considered on schedule if it arrives within 50 percent of the allotted time between it and the previous train. If Train B is supposed to pull into the station four minutes after Train A, it is on time as long as it shows up anywhere between two and six minutes later.
This system is way too complicated, subway officials say. They want to shift to something called "wait assessment." (Don't look for plain English here.) It would impose a basic three-minute rule. A train would be declared on time as long as it turned up no later than three minutes after its scheduled arrival. That same Train B would be on time even if it arrived not four but seven minutes after Train A.
ONCE all the numbers are crunched, mediocre efficiency ratings are transformed --poof! --into passable grades. Yet passengers will feel not a whit of difference as they tap their feet waiting for overdue trains.
"It's like grade inflation," said Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a riders advocacy group. The mass-transit managers, he said, will look better on paper, when what they should do is add trains and buses to handle increased ridership. Similar points were made by Michael T. Doyle, associate director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Mr. OLeary rejects any suggestion that flim-flam may be afoot. "If we were going to cheat, would we announce it?" he said.
Fair enough. But you have to wonder about a bureaucracy that defines three minutes late as on time. Three minutes can loom large. Let a rush-hour No. 4 train be that late, and thousands of riders will be stranded all along the line.
It is enough to make one pine for the Tokyo subway, where precise, to-the-minute schedules are posted on every platform. Riders can see right away for themselves if the trains are running smoothly. In my five years of living in Tokyo, they always were. Not once did I see a train come even a minute late.
Of course, if you expect that kind of efficiency in New York, you probably also think that Russian farmer will be basking in a mild Ukrainian winter. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE ALBERT W OLEARY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000



482 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: TURF;
Lessons on Shopping In a Confusing Market

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
FOR once, real estate experts are speechless.
"I'm at a loss to characterize this market," Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg Real Estate, said this week. "It's kind of like a tornado, where one house is blown to smithereens and the next one remains intact. There might be two apartments that we thought were similar: one will sell immediately for more than the asking price, and the other one will sit on the market for four months. I can't explain it." 
 Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a large appraisal company, is also mystified. In the last month, he said, "the market has been inconsistent: one apartment sells instantly, and there's very little activity on another."
Over all, the experts stress that the current market is still strong -- it's just that the frenzy has disappeared. "The overheatedness is gone," said Alan J. Rogers, chairman of Douglas Elliman, the city's largest residential real estate brokerage. "The crazy bidding wars are gone." During the summer, he said, prices appear to have stabilized.
This week, Clark Halstead, of the Halstead Property Company, said that there are now more properties on the market -- perhaps 10 percent more -- than there were last March, one of the hottest months for apartment buying in New York history. Some sellers are putting their co-ops on the market, he said, because "in their wisdom, they've decided to get out while the getting is good."
He paused. "And that means it's a great time to buy."
In addition, brokers report that while a lot of people are looking, some are choosing to wait longer before signing a contract. Others are deciding to rent -- though the rental market may be at a peak -- until prices fall, said Deborah B. Beck, executive vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
"Many of my clients are telling me they're afraid to buy at the top of the market," said Mark E. Zimmerman, a real estate lawyer at a Midtown firm.
It wasn't always so. "In March, people were agreeing to terms that I, as their attorney, was telling them not to agree to," Mr. Zimmerman said. That desperation is gone, he added. But there is still buyer's anxiety, or the fear that if a deal isn't made, the buyer won't be able to find something else.
These are the days of mixed signals: people don't want to pay the peak price, but they don't want to lose out, either.
Experts advise apartment hunters to use the new breathing room to research a purchase thoroughly, resulting in less buyer remorse, or the feeling of being pressured into either buying the wrong apartment or paying too much for the right one. Last spring, second thoughts ended in a string of broken deals.
Buyers worried that the market may fall after they move in can protect themselves by buying an apartment with an unusual, sought-after feature, said Mr. Miller, the appraiser. "Historically, apartments with unique features tend to be less volatile," he continued. "Look for outdoor space, a view, a well-done renovation."
Other experts advise the opposite: to find a rare bargain, they say, look for an apartment that has a flaw. Overlooks an air shaft? Has no elevator? "In this market, anything that is remotely perceived to have a flaw may sit on the market," Mr. Peters said. So make an offer.
Just recently, a couple were worried about having just bought a walk-up downtown, said Stuart Saft, chairman of the New York Council of Co-operatives and Condominiums. He added, "I told them they paid less because of it -- and if the market goes up, they'll make quite a profit."
Anyone who has fallen in love with an apartment but wonders if it is overpriced should pay close attention to similar apartments sold in the same building or nearby. Prices have soared until this spring, and though this summer saw a tapering off of the hysteria, prices are still high. Thus, buyers should concentrate on the most recent sales, brokers said.
The old rules still apply. Buyers should take time to sound out the building's financial health, Mr. Saft said. "If the board has raised the maintenance 10 percent every year -- in these times of relatively low inflation -- you might ask why."
A buyer's accountant or lawyer can help evaluate the underlying mortgage. Is it disproportionately large, based on the number of units? What is the interest rate? When will the mortgage come due?
Finally, bank on a good neighborhood, Mr. Saft said. "If the market goes down," he noted, "properties in a marginal neighborhood will suffer first."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Martin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (68%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%); NEW YORK COUNCIL (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COUNCIL (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (86%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE WOLFE 'JONATHAN' MILLER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



483 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: To Market, With a Digital Movie and a Dream

BYLINE: By PETER M. NICHOLS 

 BODY:
"I think of us as the garage bands of the year 2000," Eva Ilona Brzeski said over a cup of coffee. Across the street at the Angelika Film Center, other young directors like Ms. Brzeski were screening their films at the IFP Market, a combination film festival and workshop this week in Lower Manhattan. Like Ms. Brzeski's "Last Seen," an 87-minute feature about the disappearance of a high school volleyball player, many of the films have been shot, wholly or partly, on digital video.
Organized by the Independent Feature Project, an alliance of moviemakers and distributors, the market gathers directors, producers, distributors, agents, broadcasters, Web site operators and all manner of provocateurs on the independent movie scene to view new work, finished or in progress, and make connections that will help filmmakers find development money and outlets. 
 Of the 400 projects being screened, 43 percent were shot on digital tape, which records information as electronic impulses rather than images. Relatively economic to shoot and produce, digital video has thrown open the filmmaking doors to all comers. Economy doesn't equal quality, of course. But plenty of good material is being turned out by small, low-paid (if they are paid at all), hard-pressed believers in the digital way.
At the market, hope surges in the hearts of every garage band. Todd Solondz's "Welcome to the Dollhouse" was discovered at the market, as were Richard Linklater's "Slacker," Michael Moore's "Roger and Me," Edward Burns's "Brothers McMullen" and the Academy Award-nominated documentary "The Farm," by Jonathan Stack and Liz Garbus. They weren't wielding digital video cameras, however.
Nontraditional filmmakers still cope with traditional means of distribution: the theater run, home video, cable, satellite and broadcast television. Here the avenues, as any agent or distributor at the market will attest, are as narrow as ever. Once broadband technology brings delivery up to speed, the Internet may become a huge pipeline for feature films, which can be shown on the Web now but are too long for satisfactory transmission. Distributors say that should happen in three to five years.
"We're at the infancy stage right now," said Gary Zeidenstein, a founder of Alwaysi.com, a Web company. His site shows both shorts and features and awaits the day when broadband will accelerate distribution of full-length movies. Meanwhile his company represents all kinds of independent films and filmmakers, listing them on its site and promoting them in the marketplace.
This week he is patrolling the market for both film and video, though he is guarded about video. "Ninety-eight percent of what we have is film," he said. "We don't have a lot of digital product on-site. Digital will revolutionize the industry, but it depends on the production value and the story line. I worry that a lot of people are going around making any kind of movie they want to make."
Many digital video filmmakers say that freedom is exactly the point. "The technology means that you can try something you wouldn't get funding for from a studio," Ms. Brzeski said. "It's exciting that filmmakers burdened by the complexity and expense of our art form can now take a risk. It comes closer to painting or writing; you have a more direct way to express your ideas."
The market guide describes "Last Seen" as "darkly funny, haunting and strange." Ms. Brzeski, whose short films have won awards at many film festivals, combined 16-millimeter film and digital video, relying on a small crew of believers who worked for turkey sandwiches instead of money.
"We got it in the can for $10,000," she said. Then she honed the results on an old Avid editing machine she bought for her company, Apple Valley Pictures. The Avid is also digital. "For my style of filmmaking it was such a good match, because it allows you to try things out fast, manipulate the images, create textures," she added.
Then there is the video look. Many digital video directors embrace -- or are resigned to -- the hand-held rush of "The Blair Witch Project," whose incredible success left moviemakers weak in the knees. Shot on video, "Blair Witch" was transferred to film. But the average video production does not present itself as an obvious candidate for the big screen. Ms. Brzeski said she would like "Last Seen" to be transferred to 35-millimeter film for a theater run before moving to video and television and into the foreign market, where she said she thought it would do well. "The Germans like weird views of America," she said.
Meanwhile she stands with what she has made. "A lot of people use digital video to make Hollywood-type films on a smaller budget," she said. "But we take the form for what it has to offer. It's cinematic without making apologies for being on video. We're not trying to be anything else."
By contrast, Elyse Couvillon recruited the cinematographer Allen Daviau ("E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial," "Bugsy," "Avalon") for her five-minute video short "Sweet," described in the market guide as a "brief but intensely sensual ride through the rapture and realities of love." Ms. Couvillon, who has worked as a camera assistant for the directors Barry Levinson, Peter Weir and others, said she had gone both ways with video production. "You shoot with the digital look, like 'Blair Witch,' " she said. "Put the DV in the backpack. Let the camera run, get great performances."
For "Sweet," she took the opposite approach and opted for the controlled 35-millimeter style. "We had storyboards and scanned them by computer," she said. "It's not a video look at all."
For his first feature, "Virgil Bliss," which is being screened today at the Angelika, the director Joe Maggio takes the "Blair Witch" approach. In principle, though, he said he agreed with Ms. Couvillon. "The biggest fear is how we set ourselves apart, letting DV get ho-hum," he said. "We say we shot on DV and we get this look from people -- 'Oh, well, you're just another one of those DV films' -- like we're a genre."
His film is about a career criminal with an explosive temper who relies on a troubled relationship to put some meaning into his life. So far, counting postage, the cost stands at $12,000. "We decided we had to make do with a picture suited for the DV format, turn our liabilities into assets," he said. The film moves around a lot, takes the rides at Coney Island, wanders around the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, where Mr. Maggio lives, and includes a halfway house in the area.
Like Ms. Brzeski, he would like to transfer his movie to 35-millimeter film eventually, but his immediate goal is to attract festival programmers and perhaps a cable outlet like the Independent Film Channel. A television-quality tape is adequate for that purpose.
Still, the question remains: If digital video opens the floodgates, who will want all the output? "There is a huge demand for content targeted at specific audiences," said Dennis Young, president of Reelplay.com, another Web company that lists and promotes films on its site, including all 400 projects at this year's market. "Studios make mass-appeal products. They don't make niche products. Specific content equals independent features."
Shot on DV, perhaps.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes from Joe Maggio's "Virgil Bliss," above, and Eva Ilona Brzeski's "Last Seen." Both were shot in digital video. (Left, Concrete Films; right, Apple Valley Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT FEATURE PROJECT ANGELIKA FILM CENTER LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT FEATURE PROJECT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; IFP MARKET (FILM FESTIVAL); RECORDINGS (VIDEO) MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); BROADBAND (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (70%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (69%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (56%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, PETER MICHAEL MOORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



484 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Over Saddam's Barrel

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Nervous Nellie is worried about the strike by gas-gouged truckers in France and the panic buying of petrol by drivers in Britain. Nellie's fears are compounded by the rising price of gasoline in the U.S.
Be calm, replies Rosie Scenario. The tripling of the price of oil to $35 a barrel will soon be rolled back by increased production from our sensible friends in OPEC. 
 Nervous Nellie presses: What if Saddam Hussein crosses everybody up and reduces his sale of almost three million barrels a day, thereby punishing the West by pushing prices even higher?
That would be foolish of him, Rosie replies. Turning off the spigot would further impoverish the Iraqi people.
But that never bothered him before, counters Nellie. And by keeping oil prices up, he would greatly please the Russians, whose economy is being saved only by the high price of their main export. Russian technology and scientists in Iraq already help make it possible for inspection-free Saddam to build weapons of mass destruction and buy missiles to deliver them.
Relax, says Rosie, a little testily. Even if the price of oil stays sky-high, that does not mean it would cause inflation, triggering higher interest rates, then a stock market drop followed by recession.
Nellie: But isn't that what happened last time?
Rosie: That was then, when we were all hung up on the business cycle. Rest assured that the New Economy can withstand oil shocks, bursting bubbles and all the ills that flesh is heir to.
Nellie: But there has to be something the president can do. What if October gets cold in Connecticut and the price of heating oil is out of sight?
Rosie: No problem -- we dump our strategic oil reserve on the market and call it the Lieberman solution. Good quick fix that gets us past the election.
Nellie: But what about a war shock on top of an oil price shock? Saddam is saying that OPEC should defy superpowers, and claims that Kuwait is stealing his oil by drilling slantwise. Isn't that what he said last time, just before he started the gulf war?
Rosie: It's a bluff. Here is a statement from Gen. Paul Mikolashek of the U.S. Central Command, an unbeatable force stretched from Pakistan to Egypt. "I see a lot of rhetoric . . . Saddam's armed forces have been degraded." Not to worry. "Degraded" is Pentagonese for "hurt" and shows that the jargon of our military mind is invincible.
Nellie: Like how many troops do we have there? It took over half a million to stop Saddam last time.
Rosie: We have 4,500 troops in Kuwait, a couple of Patriot batteries, an Apache helicopter unit, plus an air base to patrol the no-fly zone. Maybe 15,000 more troops floating around nearby.
Nellie: That's going to stop the whole Iraqi Army? Apaches that couldn't take off in Kosovo?
Rosie: Look, if Saddam miscalculated again, we'd reassemble the Grand Coalition, call up our reserves, and send in CNN's Bernard Shaw to narrate the bombing of Baghdad -- the whole nine-yard megillah.
Nellie: Bill Clinton would do that?
Rosie: All from upward of 50,000 feet, with not one U.S. casualty.
Nellie: But what if Saddam says he has the Bomb? And says he's willing to commit suicide but would take Tel Aviv or New York along with him? It may be a bluff, but he's had years to build a nuclear or biological bomb in secret, and I'd hate to be the president to take the chance. We have no defense against a single missile, you know.
Rosie: Get over your nightmares. After we call his military bluff, we'll get next week's G-7 meeting to demand the oil cartel cut prices to $20 a barrel. Then it's world prosperity as far as the ear can hear.
Who's right, Rosie Scenario or Nervous Nellie? I say we should hope for the best and prepare for the worst. That means asking this president and the candidates to take his place: What if? Are we ready?
Let each cool-headed debater say during those 90 unforgiving minutes how he would deal with Saddam's economic and military threats. As Kipling never wrote: If you can keep your head while all others about you are losing theirs -- perhaps you don't understand the seriousness of the situation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); FRANCE (91%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); FRANCE (91%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RECESSION (76%); DESERT STORM (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (66%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (65%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (60%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



485 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Industrial Nations to Confront the Sagging Euro and Costly Oil

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The slumping euro and fuel price inflation quickly took over as the dominant themes today in advance of a meeting of some of the world's top finance officials, with the European currency weakening to a record low and oil prices reaching another 10-year high.
French leaders, alarmed at the soaring cost of oil and gasoline that has aroused protests across Europe, demanded a unified stand for lower fuel prices when they meet here this weekend among the Group of 7 leading industrial nations. The top official of the International Monetary Fund also warned of the risks of high oil prices and, in unusually blunt remarks, urged the Group of 7 countries to intervene in the currency markets to strengthen the euro. 
 The remarks by Horst Kohler, the I.M.F.'s managing director, put pressure on the United States and its partners to attempt their first global currency intervention since their rescue of the falling Japanese yen two years ago.
The combination of a weak euro and expensive oil is considered especially perilous in Europe just as new signs are emerging that the region's vibrant economy may be slowing. Today, for instance, Italy reported an unexpected slowdown in its quarterly growth rate, and a widely watched indicator of business confidence in Germany fell for the third consecutive month.
In France, Finance Minister Laurent Fabius asked other big oil-importing nations to jointly demand that oil exporters lower what he called "the massive and brutal rise in prices." He spoke as the commodity price of a barrel of crude oil reached an intraday high of $37.80, settling in New York trading later in the day at $37.20. page C13.
Mr. Kohler, speaking to reporters here in the Czech capital, called the euro "heavily undervalued" and urged that central bankers take steps to increase its exchange rate against the dollar and the Japanese yen. "In my mind it is clear that intervention cannot be a taboo," he said. "My advice is to get the euro back to values based on economic fundamentals."
Mr. Kohler's comments reflected growing worries in Europe not only about the euro's value but also its viability as the region's common currency.
When 11 West European nations, led by Germany and France, introduced the currency in January 1999, some European leaders thought it might soon displace the dollar as the world's preferred storehouse of value.
Virtually the opposite has happened. The euro slipped from $1.17 at the start and is now suffering the worst rout of its 20-month life, touching a new low in European trading today of 84.44 cents, then rising somewhat in New York to 84.72 cents.
Along with the increasing price of oil, which Mr. Kohler said had put growth prospects in many importing countries at risk, the I.M.F. has stressed that the weak euro could undermine generally optimistic prospects for the global economy.
The euro's diminished value means that much of the Continent must pay more for imported goods, pushing up inflation and potentially forcing the European Central Bank to raise interest rates. That would slow growth in the region, which along with the United States economy has contributed to the strongest world growth in more than a decade.
Even more disconcerting for European policy makers, the currency's tumble comes a few days before Denmark is scheduled to vote on whether to adopt the euro. New polls show that Danes have turned decidedly negative on the euro as their Sept. 28 referendum approaches, a serious blow to proponents of the single currency, who hope to expand its domain to include other European nations, especially Britain.
The weak euro also has an impact in the United States by strengthening the relative value of an already strong dollar. Though the dollar has been a cornerstone of America's long economic expansion, import-loving Americans have helped amass a huge trade deficit, now 4.3 percent of the gross domestic product, a level many economists consider too high.
"There is a serious psychological bubble that has pushed the euro way down and the dollar way up," said C. Fred Bergsten, head of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, "and it could do some serious damage. My conclusion is that the only way they are going to turn this around is with a positive psychological shock" -- concerted intervention.
Mr. Bergsten said the leading powers should repeat their rescue operation of the sagging Japanese yen during the Asian financial crisis, in 1998. At that time, the United States, Europe and Japan coordinated an effort to buy yen and scared off speculators who had been driving the yen down. The yen rebounded, rising by almost a third against the dollar and has remained largely stable.
When the Group of 7 finance ministers meet this weekend, they will face the issue of whether -- and how -- to grapple with the euro.
The markets are betting that they will debate over words more than deeds. The customary joint communique at the end of the meeting will be scrutinized for semantics, especially any official endorsement of the idea that the euro has fallen below its fundamental value. It is also possible that they will emerge with an agreement, possibly secret, to sell dollars and buy euros at an opportune moment -- though that is regarded as less likely.
Several senior European officials have signaled that they favor intervention, but Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers has so far shown no interest in joining them. Without American participation, any intervention will carry a high risk of failure.
Mr. Summers reiterated today that the United States policy favoring a strong dollar remains in force. He has often said that he prefers to allow the market to set currency values. He seems especially unlikely to alter that philosophy with the presidential election ahead.
Any intervention could fail, embarrassing the Clinton administration. Or it could work too well, pushing the euro up sharply at the expense of the dollar and making the American trade deficit -- now projected at $354 billion this year -- unsustainable, weakening the economy and hurting Vice President Al Gore's campaign.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "CURRENCIES" tracks the euro to the dollar, since April 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; EUROPEAN UNION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; EUROPEAN UNION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; ITALY; GERMANY; FRANCE; EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (51%); 

PERSON: KOHLER, HORST; FABIUS, LAURENT; KAHN, JOSEPH HORST KOHLER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



486 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Euro Britons Feeling Vindicated;
But Nation's Currency Isolation Is Still Seen as Threat by Many

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: SHERWOOD PARK, England

 BODY:
When Europe's single currency was introduced in 11 countries last year Britain stood aloof, refusing to abandon its venerable pound. It brushed aside domestic critics and business leaders who said their land might be setting misplaced nationalism ahead of the opportunity to participate in the Continent's greatest financial revolution.
Now, 21 months later, with the euro staggering against the American dollar, the European currency's misfortunes seem only to have strengthened those convictions. Still aloof -- and proud of it -- many Britons seem to feel vindicated in their belief that the smart money was on abstention after all, while the costs of isolation from the euro-zone have been limited. 
 "We have moved against the grain of European opinion for centuries," said Lord David Owen, one of several political grandees linked with business groups opposed to Britain's joining the euro at this stage. "It's been happening over a long period of time, and we mustn't be afraid of it."
It is not only politicians who sense that the euro is out of favor here. Business and financial interests were once largely united in favoring the euro. But a survey in mid-September by Merrill Lynch found that for the first time a majority among British fund managers had "lost their enthusiasm" for the euro, arguing that it would not be in the country's long-term economic interests to join. As recently as March 1999, the survey said, 60 percent of British fund managers had favored British membership. That figure slid to 40 percent in early September.
Not only that, Denmark, which rejected the treaty establishing the single currency several years ago, is set to vote again on whether to join the euro in a referendum on Sept. 28. With opinion among Danes shifting against membership, the British fund managers said a Danish "no" would not only make British membership less likely but perhaps damage the currency throughout Europe.
"An upset in Denmark could be the next shock that triggers euro selling," said Trevor Greetham, global strategist at Merrill Lynch in London.
Business groups skeptical of the euro -- assembled in a newly begun campaign called "Euro No" that depicts the European currency as a set of handcuffs -- declared in full-page newspaper advertisement: "Our economy hasn't been so healthy in our lifetime."
The debate is intensely political and emotional, with few indisputable economic facts to sway the argument either way in what is by far the largest of three holdouts against the euro -- Britain, Denmark and Sweden. Greece, which was left out originally because of its weak economy, is scheduled to join the euro in January.
While Britain's trade with the Continent has started to suffer, the nation has nonetheless survived a hint of recession with flying colors. It has also suppressed inflation and achieved more robust growth than Continental Europe largely because the Bank of England, free of the euro-zone's control by a ponderous and indecisive European Central Bank in Frankfurt, has been able to massage interest rates to shield the economy from its own boom-to-bust history.
From that perspective, said Ian Stewart, an economist with Merrill Lynch in London, "the benefits of being outside outweigh the benefits of being inside."
The City of London, Europe's financial district, has made brisk business from the euro, both in the eurobond market and from Europe's record-setting wave of cross-border consolidations. "This is one area where there has been no sign of any losses," said Alasdair Murphy, a director of the pro-euro Center for European Reform.
On the other side of the ledger, as the British pound has strengthened mightily against the euro, it has made British exports to Continental Europe -- half of its trade -- far more expensive. That has inflicted pain on manufacturers, who have shed hundreds of thousands of jobs since the euro's inception.
Still, despite complaints from auto industry giants like Ford, BMW, Nissan and Toyota about the pound's strength, Britain has maintained its lead as the principal target for foreign corporations seeking a toehold in Europe's 15-nation single market. Government figures released in July showed that Britain's attractiveness has pushed the total value of overseas investment here to $382 billion, up a stunning 25 percent from a year earlier.
Those arguments form pillars of the anti-euro case. But more distant horizons seem less sparkling. Many overseas investors have come to Britain not just for its low labor costs and easy hire-and-fire laws, but because they assume that sooner or later Britain will join the euro.
Indeed, with the pound weakening against the dollar, and long-term interest rates in Britain and the euro-zone looking set to converge, some economists argue that Britain is heading for a de facto alignment with the euro-zone that would make its membership simpler to achieve economically, if not politically.
"The assumption is that we will be in at some stage, so there's no need to take short-term measures or to start rethinking strategic considerations," said Graham Bishop, an independent economic consultant.
But if Prime Minister Tony Blair's tentative schedule to call a referendum on joining the euro within the next couple of years begins to slip -- as it now might with Mr. Blair's government facing a sudden loss in popularity -- "then that begins to make people nervous," Mr. Bishop said.
Lodged, moreover, between Europe and the United States -- more by economic culture than by geography -- Britain has in recent months suffered a double whammy of volatile exchange rates, with the strength of the United States economy pushing the pound to 14-year lows against the dollar just as sterling's strength against the euro makes British exports more expensive to sell in leading European markets.
The peril of high oil costs, a strong dollar and a weak euro is troubling European business as a whole, of course. But in Britain that confluence of economic forces has once again illuminated the fault line running through Britain's economy. While the bulk of Britain's wealth is rooted in the quick-paced service-driven economy around London, a traditional manufacturing sector further north is grappling not only with its own historical decline but with the difficulties of exporting into the euro-zone from factories that count their costs in pounds.
Consider, for instance, a small company like Autofil Worldwide, a manufacturer of yarn used in car upholstery, with a cavernous plant perched on a blustery hill in this industrial park north of Nottingham in the British Midlands. With annual revenue of $22 million, 80 percent of its sales of yarn are conducted in euros. It does the bulk of its business with suppliers, including those in Britain, in euros as well. The euro, Anthony Ullmann, a co-managing director, said, "is a fact of life for us."
This tale of euro-centricity, though, has a flaw. While most of its revenue is in less valuable euros, Autofil's wages for 130 employees and its utility bills are fixed in pounds. Its main raw material, polyester derived from petroleum, is priced ultimately in dollars, pushing up the company's own costs. To counter these forces, the company has been forced to trim its profit margins.
"We have the worst of both worlds," said Michael Heck, the other co-managing director.
Mr. Ullmann is convinced that this division must be erased to ensure the competitiveness of British industry. "The question of losing the pound is an inevitability," he said. "It's a question of when rather than if."
In the meantime, though, companies like Autofil say sterling's volatility has cost them dearly. This year, for instance, Mr. Heck said, the company will increase sales by 30 percent, but earn no more than it did last year. And, Mr. Ullmann said, his European competitors "don't do what I do when I get to the office every morning: check the price of the euro" to work out how to adjust for currency shifts. "It's very time consuming," he said.
For all the economic disputes, however, the decision on joining the euro will ultimately be a political one. Mr. Blair's government, which is guardedly in favor of the euro, has promised that it will not move until after the next election, and will hold a referendum on joining the currency before abandoning the pound. And, alarmingly for those who support the euro, Mr. Blair's Labor Party has suddenly and surprisingly been overtaken in the opinion polls by the staunchly anti-euro Conservative opposition, raising questions about the government's fortunes at the next election for Parliament, which it is expected to call next year and cannot delay past May 2002. The mood swung against Labor over its handling of blockades by protesting truckers and farmers that threatened to paralyze the economy; sentiment could well swing back again before the vote is held.
But Labor's loss of support could have wider ramifications. The Conservatives have placed their visceral and now united opposition to the euro at the center of a populist election campaign that can only become stronger if Labor is unable to win back popularity at home. And the anti-euro forces could gain further ground if other omens abroad -- particularly the Danish vote and the euro's swoon on foreign exchange markets -- reinforce their argument that the single currency is turning into a failure.
In setting out the arguments for and against, hard economic data is scarce and ambiguous, hinging thus far on three questions. Has Britain's isolation from the euro damaged foreign investment? Has it been a setback for the City of London as one of the world's mightiest financial centers? And has Britain suffered from the swings in the euro's value against the pound?
Only in the latter category can manufacturers and exporters trace losses that have cost jobs -- 200,000, according to Kitty Usher, the chief economist of the pro-euro Britain in Europe group. Against that, though, Britain's overall unemployment figures have declined since the introduction of the euro, suggesting that other jobs have been created over the same period.
Among foreign investors, particularly the vocal Japanese automakers who have established major operations in Britain, the picture remains murky. Honda has announced a doubling of capacity at its plant at Swindon, west of London. But Toyota is set to open a new factory in France next year, and Nissan could move production of a new subcompact to the French installations of its partner, Renault.
BMW and Ford both cited the pound's strength against the euro as reasons for their decisions to close assembly lines in Britain.
That could deepen what some pro-Europeans see as a trend.
"Globally, our share of foreign investment is falling," Ms. Usher said, arguing that while still at a record level, Britain's overall slice of the world's accumulated foreign investment had declined to 24 percent from 28 percent.
Three million jobs, or one in nine, are directly or indirectly linked to exports to the euro-zone, Ms. Usher said. "Those jobs could be affected by anything that would weaken our trading links with the euro-zone," she said.
Indeed, she added, it did not really matter whether the exchange rate was defined by the euro's weakness or the pound's strength. "It's all semantics," she said, "if you are the person whose job is threatened."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A demonstrator waved anti-euro signs in London on Jan. 4, 1999, the first day of trading for the currency. Since then, the euro has declined against the British pound and the dollar. (Associated Press); Anthony Ullmann, right, and Michael Heck, co-managing directors of Autofil Worldwide, which makes yarn used in car upholstery. The company has been hurt by the weak euro. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Stay Out or Join In?"
As Britian's economy has continued to hold up well even as the value of the euro has stumbled badly against other major currencies, British opposition to joining the European single currency has intensified. But with British trade closely tied to the rest of Europe, euro supporters warn that the nation's industries will suffer if Britain's interest rates and currency remain out of step with the rest of Europe.
 
Charts track the change in gross domestic product between the Euro zone and Britain from 1995 to 2000; track the change in consumer prices from same period of previous year from 1996 to the first quarter of 2000; track British exports, in billions of British pounds from 1998 and 1999; track the short-term lending rates of Bank of England Overnight Rate, U.S. Federal Funds Rate, and Euro Overnight Rate controlled by central bank from 1998 to 2000; the pound is getting weaker against the U.S. dollar and stronger against the Euro (tracks Euros and Dollars to the pound from 1999 to 2000. (Source: Economy.com; Bloomberg Finacial Markets; British Office for National Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (68%); ENGLAND (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; AUTOFIL WORLDWIDE MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; AUTOFIL WORLDWIDE EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; DENMARK; SWEDEN; GREECE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (68%); ENGLAND (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES EURO (93%); CURRENCIES (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); REFERENDUMS (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HECK, MICHAEL; ULLMANN, ANTHONY; COWELL, ALAN DAVID ANTHONY LLEWELLYN OWEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



487 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit at Record in July, Pushed by Cost of Oil Imports

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened to a record in July as demand for autos, oil and Chinese toys and clothes pushed imports to their highest level ever, government figures showed today.
The deficit in goods and services rose to $31.9 billion from $29.8 billion in June, the Commerce Department said. The previous record was $30.4 billion in March. 
 Record shipments of higher-price oil helped increase imports 0.6 percent, to $121.6 billion, in July after a 3.6 percent gain in June. Exports fell 1.5 percent, to $89.7 billion, as shipments of aircraft, automobiles and consumer goods slowed, reversing part of the 4.8 percent rise in June.
The July trade gap with China rose to a record $7.6 billion, up from $7.2 billion a month earlier and $6.3 billion in July 1999.
Demand for imported goods is likely to remain strong, a regional economic survey released today by the Federal Reserve suggested. The economy showed solid growth in late August and early this month, according to the Fed survey, known as the beige book. Several districts reported that consumer spending, which slumped in the second quarter, picked up in early September.
The trade report showed that oil imports rose 4.3 percent in July, to $8.4 billion, the highest ever. The volume of oil imports reached a record 301 million barrels, and the average price rose to $27.76 a barrel.
The trade deficit totaled $206.3 billion for the first seven months of 2000, up from $140.7 billion in the 1999 period, according to the Commerce Department. The July number puts the annual deficit on track to reach $354 billion, which would surpass the record $265 billion set in 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"
Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 
July 2000
Balance: -$31.89
Imports: 121.56
Exports: 89.67
(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) IMPORT TRADE (94%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ARMS TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



488 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Declines on Oil Worries; Nasdaq Has Technology Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
A flurry of afternoon buying of technology stocks rescued the Nasdaq composite index from an early slide yesterday, but other major gauges slumped.
Investors continued to fret about oil prices, which made another 10-year high, and the depressed state of the euro as more companies cautioned that quarterly results would be shy of expectations. 
 Some, however, took heart from upbeat Wall Street comments about Intel and some other technology companies and pushed the Nasdaq composite index up 31.80 points, or 0.8 percent, to 3,897.44. The index has declined 4.22 percent so far this year.
But the rest of the market, though firming up on hints that the government might act to cap oil prices and on a Federal Reserve survey showing further slowing of the economy, remained in negative territory.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 8.56 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,451.34, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 101.37 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,687.92 -- 7.04 percent lower than where it started the year.
Only two of the Dow's 30 components advanced. At its weakest yesterday, the Dow was nearly 222 points lower.
Referring to the narrowly focused Nasdaq recovery during the day, Ned Riley Jr., chief strategist at State Street Advisors in Boston, said, "It's clearly concentrated in the top 15 stocks, such as Cisco, Sun, Intel and Dell." He said the public, rather than institutions, dominated because transactions of fewer than 1,500 shares accounted for 75 percent of the volume in stocks like Intel.
Some other stocks bucked the downtrend. Boeing gained $2.29, to $59.06, after it raised its cash-flow estimates for this year, and Lehman Brothers added 75 cents, to $144.44, after reporting sharply higher quarterly profits and a 2-for-1 stock split. Buffalo-based M & T Bank announced a 10-for-1 split and rose $5, to $510.
Darden Restaurants, owner of Red Lobster and Olive Garden, beat profit estimates for its first quarter and gained $1.25, to $18.56.
On the other hand, Sprint PCS said it expected to add fewer customers than it previously projected and the stock dropped $7.81, to $33, dragging other wireless shares lower, notably VoiceStream and Western, $8.19, and $6.50, respectively.
Informix, Spartech and TheStreet.com also fell after saying they would miss earnings estimates.
Coca-Cola, with major exposure to currency markets, slumped $4.60, to $49.63.
"Just a handful of tech stocks led the rebound," said Brian G. Belski, strategist at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "There's no clearly defined reason to buy" when so much earnings and other news is expected in the weeks ahead.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Drop
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday after a Federal Reserve report citing higher labor costs spurred concern that the central bank's string of interest-rate increases had not done enough to slow growth to a pace that would not lead to faster inflation.
Government securities also fell as oil prices jumped and Freddie Mac sold $6 billion of new debt, joining dozens of borrowers that will offer about $40 billion of bonds this month.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 10/32, to a price of 98 31/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.89 percent from 5.85 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 20/32, to 104 4/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.95 percent from 5.91 percent on Tuesday.
The Fed's report "and oil on the rise kept the sell-off going," said James Rice, a fixed-income strategist at Stone & Youngberg L.L.C. in San Francisco. "The market is treacherous to trade," he said.
Traders pulled in bets that the Fed was done raising rates in the current cycle after the central bank's report, which stated "reports of wage increases were widespread and some firms indicated that higher labor costs were an increasing problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); DRI (NYSE) (63%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (51%); TST (NASDAQ) (51%); PJC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); BOEING CO (53%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); THESTREET INC (51%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



489 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE MEDICARE STRATEGIST;
Bush Adviser Tied to Companies

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
A principal author of Gov. George W. Bush's Medicare plan, Dr. Gail R. Wilensky, serves on the boards of eight health care companies whose fortunes could be affected by the Bush proposal.
Dr. Wilensky, a former administrator of the government office that runs Medicare and the current chairwoman of the panel that advises Congress on Medicare policy, holds stock and stock options in the companies worth $4 million to $5 million today, according to company documents and Dr. Wilensky's own estimates. 
 She said her relationships with the health care concerns were a matter of public record and denied that there was any conflict between her service on the corporate boards and her role as a health policy adviser to Governor Bush.
"I behave in an open and public manner and don't try to hide what I am doing," Dr. Wilensky said in an interview. "I might be opinionated, I might be wrong, but I'm not carrying anybody else's water."
She said she has recused herself from decisions of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, the Congressional policy panel, while she serves as a health adviser to Governor Bush to avoid the appearance of a conflict.
And she asserted that there was no way to calculate the direct or indirect financial effect of the health plans of Mr. Bush or Vice President Al Gore on individual companies. Nor does her service on those boards in any way affect the public policy positions she advocates, she said.
But Public Citizen, a research group founded by Ralph Nader, charged that Dr. Wilensky represented drug and managed-care interests directly affected by Mr. Bush's plan and called her financial relationship to numerous health care concerns "wholly inappropriate."
Frank Clemente, director of Public Citizen's Congress Watch, said that Dr. Wilensky advocated a health care proposal that favored providers over consumers. And he contended that she stood to profit personally if the Bush plan were enacted.
"Here is a central health care adviser to Bush who is a major representative of pharmaceutical and insurance interests, which is why the Bush prescription drug program is so favored by the industry and so opposed by consumers," Mr. Clemente said. "It is just wholly inappropriate and a direct conflict of interest."
Mr. Bush's health care proposal leaves much medical decision-making to private industry, including insurers and health maintenance organizations. The government would still pay most costs and would supervise insurers, approving or disapproving all plans.
Dr. Wilensky wrote much of the plan and explained it to reporters when it was released. The proposal is consistent with Dr. Wilensky's longstanding views on the most efficient means of delivering medical services to consumers.
Public Citizen is planning to release a report this week detailing Dr. Wilensky's holdings in health care companies and accusing her of designing a health plan that could enrich her. The report, which the group made available to The New York Times, contends that her financial stake in the medical industry is more troubling than the Halliburton Company stock options of Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's running mate. Mr. Cheney might shape energy policy some time in the future in a Bush administration, the report states, while Dr. Wilensky is already drafting proposals for the campaign.
Mr. Cheney said this month that if elected he would forfeit stock options worth about $3.5 million in Halliburton, the energy services company that he left to run for office.
The Bush campaign reacted angrily to Public Citizen's charges and defended Dr. Wilensky.
"This is a ridiculous assertion by a left-leaning group which supports more government control over health care," said Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for Mr. Bush.
"Democrats and Republicans in Congress believe she has high integrity and trust her to advise them on health care policy and we believe she is an added asset to our campaign," Mr. Bartlett said. "The policy that Governor Bush implements or promotes will be based on what's best for America and will be based on consultation from a wide range of advisers from a wide range of backgrounds."
Vice President Gore's health policy advisers are chiefly full-time Democratic campaign aides or government officials. The group includes Elaine Kamarck, Mr. Gore's top domestic policy adviser; Sarah Bianchi, a Gore campaign health policy specialist; Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of Health and Human Services; Chris Jennings, the White House's senior health affairs adviser; and Dr. David A. Kessler, the dean of the Yale University Medical School.
None appear to hold any outside employment or corporate directorships, according to the Gore campaign and public records.
Dr. Wilensky, 57, who holds a doctorate in economics, is the John M. Olin Senior Fellow at Project HOPE, an international health foundation, her only full-time position. She is taking leave and vacation time from Project HOPE to advise the Bush campaign, she said.
She served in the White House under President Bush in 1992 as deputy assistant for policy development, working on health care and welfare issues. Dr. Wilensky's largest single holding is in the United HealthCare Corporation, one of the nation's leading managed-care companies.
Dr. Wilensky has a total of 70,750 shares and stock options in United, which closed at $92.31 a share today. She exercised her option to acquire 16,000 of the shares at $49.50 a share in May, yielding a paper profit of nearly $700,000.
The face value of all securities of companies she serves as a director is more than $12 million, corporate filings show. But Dr. Wilensky said that because many of her holdings were in stock options granted her as compensation for her board service -- and many had not yet vested -- their actual value was less than $5 million today.
Company disclosure documents generally do not reveal the price at which the options were granted so it is impossible to calculate precisely the value of Dr. Wilensky's holdings. She said she has disclosed all of her directorships and outside interests under Congressional ethics rules. However, she added, "I don't feel I have an obligation to disclose asset accumulation."
As a result of her board service, Dr. Wilensky holds thousands of shares and options in Gentiva Health Services, Syncor, Advanced Tissue Sciences, Shared Medical Systems, St. Jude Medical Care, Quest Diagnostics and Manor Care. The companies provide a variety of medical services from human tissue replacements to nursing care to data management.
Spokesmen for several of the companies said that they took no position on the Bush or the Gore health care proposals.
Dr. Wilensky said that the drug industry has the most to gain or lose from the presidential candidates' competing health plans.
The industry's trade association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association, has been critical of the Gore plan because, the group contends, it will lead to government price controls. The industry has been more sympathetic to the Bush proposal because it leaves drug purchasing for Medicare largely in the private sector.
Dr. Wilensky said that she is not a director of any drug company or member of the industry's trade association.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Gail R. Wilensky, an author of the Bush Medicare plan, is on the boards of companies the plan could affect. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN) PUBLIC CITIZEN (82%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN) PUBLIC CITIZEN (82%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICARE; ETHICS MEDICARE (94%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WRITERS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); ETHICS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LITIGATION (67%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); 

PERSON: WILENSKY, GAIL R (DR); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BRODER, JOHN M GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



490 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES;
Oil at $37.20; Demand, Diplomacy and Politics Intense

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The price of crude oil climbed again yesterday amid increasing concern about the impact of the rising price on the world's economy.
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil for October delivery jumped as high as $37.80 a barrel but gave back some of its gains late in the day, ending up 69 cents at a 10-year high of $37.20. Yesterday was the last day for the October futures contract, a day on which trading is often volatile. . 
 The price of heating oil for October delivery ended at $1.0179 a gallon, down 0.12 cent.
Oil for November delivery rose 23 cents, to $35.23 a barrel. It becomes the current, or spot, contract today. The immediate demand for oil has been strong -- so much so that the price of the near-term futures contract has been higher than the price for delivery in later months. If that kind of demand does not change, the price of the November contract can be expected to soon catch up with that of the expired October contract.
The low level of supplies, both for crude oil and distillate, which is used to make home heating oil, is pushing the price higher right now.
The Clinton administration is expected to decide in a few days whether to release oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a step rarely invoked and one of a few developments that could put downward pressure on prices.
Vice President Al Gore is expected to add to the growing political debate over oil prices when he makes a campaign speech today outlining his proposals.
The high price of oil will also be an important topic at a gathering this weekend of finance ministers of the International Monetary Fund in Prague. These discussions could put more pressure on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase production.
The American Petroleum Institute reported after the close of trading yesterday that crude oil inventories fell by just over two million barrels last week, to 286.6 million barrels. That is 22.2 million barrels, or 7.2 percent, below the level of a year ago. And while distillate inventories rose 1.25 million barrels, they are still 19.4 percent below last year's level.
President Clinton said yesterday that he needed "a few more days" before deciding whether to release oil from the 571-million-barrel petroleum reserve. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has been pushing the administration to open the oil reserve, spoke yesterday with Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson.
In an interview after the meeting, in which he assessed the outlook for releasing oil, he said: "Those who were for it are more strongly for it, and those who were against it are now believing that it should be done. They didn't tell me this, but for the first time, I believe that odds are greater than 50-50" that oil will be released from the reserve.
Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France called for a meeting of members of the OPEC countries, the 15 nations of the European Union and the United States. He said France would propose the meeting in Prague this weekend in conjunction with the I.M.F. meeting.
Treasury Secretary Summers, after a speech at Johns Hopkins University, declined to say if he wanted to release oil from the petroleum reserve or whether he supported France's proposal. But he did say that oil would be a topic this weekend.
"We are obviously watching developments in the oil market very closely," he told reporters. The price of oil, he added, "is one factor bearing on the global economic outlook."
But reflecting the comments of I.M.F. officials, Mr. Summers added, "I share the overall judgment of the I.M.F. that the global economy is healthy and in many ways healthier than it has been in some number of years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "COMMODITIES" tracks oil prices (near-month contract), since April 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EUROPEAN UNION NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EUROPEAN UNION ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (50%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEATING OIL; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); POLITICS (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); POLITICAL DEBATES (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC); RICHARDSON, BILL (SEC); JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (69%); BILL RICHARDSON (68%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



491 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Ford Tested Firestone Tires On Pickup, Not on Explorer

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company acknowledged today that it had used a pickup truck, and not an Explorer sports utility vehicle, to test Bridgestone/Firestone tires at low air pressure, despite submitting an affidavit of a retired worker that implied that an Explorer was used.
Congressional investigators quickly seized on the discrepancy, and Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, who plans to conduct a second hearing on Thursday on the tendency of the tires to fail and the vehicles to roll over, plans to ask whether the intent was to mislead Congress, according to a member of his staff. 
 Also today, the Senate Commerce Committee unanimously approved legislation that would establish criminal penalties for failing to notify the government of safety defects if those defects result in death or serious injury.
And Ford said that regulators were looking into failures of a part in the front suspension of 1995 and 1996 Explorers, although the company said that the problem did not appear to cause anything more than noises under the hood and "vague handling."
With the number of deaths in tire-related Explorer rollover accidents apparently more than 100, a key question is the discrepancy between Firestone's recommended inflation level, 30 pounds per square inch, and Ford's, a range of 26 to 30 pounds.
Congressional investigators have been seeking to establish what tests were done at 26 pounds, because lower pressure leads to more flexing of the tire sidewall, producing more heat which can encourage tire failure.
Ford officials called reporters this afternoon to say that the tests, two hours in the hot Arizona desert at more than 90 miles per hour, had been conducted in 1989 using a Ford F-150 pickup truck.
They used the truck, officials said, because the V-6 engine used on the original Explorers probably could not have run the vehicle that fast for that long on a day when the temperature was at least 90 degrees, as the test required. In fact, they said, the prototype vehicles available at the time the test was run were probably too frail to run that fast.
While the F-150 is not an Explorer, "it mimics it perfectly," said Jason Vines, a spokesman for Ford. Because of the way the suspension is set up and the weight is distributed, "the tire believes the vehicle is an Explorer," he said.
But Ken Johnson, a spokesman for Mr. Tauzin, the chairman of the House Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications, Trade and Consumer Protection, said: "It might resemble an Explorer, but it's not an Explorer. That's the whole point."
He added, "We will have legislation to solve that problem in the future."
Mr. Johnson also said that investigators had found records of tire tests done in 1996 at Firestone's Decatur, Ill., plant, where many of the defective tires were produced. Of 229 tires randomly tested, 31 failed a standard test of 10 minutes at 112 miles an hour, he said. The tire is supposed to last for 10 minutes but "they started peeling like bananas a couple of minutes into the test," he said. Of the 31, 20 were tread separations, he said, adding, "Someone at Firestone had to know they were having problems," he said.
A spokeswoman for Firestone, Julia Sutherland, reached this evening, said she was not familiar with the document.
Ford, meanwhile, said it was looking into the part in the front suspension, a sway bar link, that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had asked about. The part helps keep the vehicle from leaning too far during turns.
Ford said its own database of complaints showed that they came mainly from northern states where road salt, a cause of corrosion, is used for melting snow. The company believes the highway traffic agency will open an investigation.
Asked if the failures were a safety problem, Mr. Vines said, "everything we see says no." He added, "In the end, we'll do the right thing for our customers."
While the House committee discusses legislation, the Senate Commerce Committee passed a bill, sponsored by Senator John McCain of Arizona, the committee chairman, that would establish criminal penalties for knowingly violating an existing law that requires manufacturers to notify the government about defects. It would also have the Government establish rules for reporting by companies of warranty claims and crashes.
But the idea was immediately attacked by the United States Chamber of Commerce.
"Criminalization at the heat of the moment may sound like a good thing," said Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the chamber. "But does everybody understand that criminalization take precedence over civil law?"
Manufacturers would refuse to turn over records to government regulators or Congress, he said, for fear of incriminating themselves. "You've now defeated the open flow to the very authorities and the American public that need to know." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 5108 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP; FIRESTONE FORD MOTOR CO (98%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP; FIRESTONE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINES (PENALTIES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); TIRES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); TRUCK SAFETY (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); PRODUCT RECALLS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; TAUZIN, BILLY (REPR) W J 'BILLY' TAUZIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



492 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

S.E.C. Settles Fraud Case With 15-Year-Old Student
The Securities and Exchange Commission accused a 15-year-old high school student of orchestrating a scheme to increase the prices of nine obscure, low-price stocks he had bought by sending numerous upbeat messages to investing chat rooms on the Internet, earning almost $273,000 in illegal gains.
The teenager, from Cedar Grove, N.J., settled with the S.E.C. by agreeing to pay back the money he made plus interest, for a total of $285,000. Regulators said he was the first minor to be sued by the S.E.C. Page A1. 

American Air Pilots Reject Offer
Pilots at American Airlines rejected a one-year contract extension, dealing a blow to the airline's efforts to improve relations with one of its most critical employee groups. C8.
 
Sprint Issues a Profit Warning
Sprint said that its core operation would fail to meet analysts' earnings expectations for the third quarter. The company added that the core unit would grow at its slowest rate since the company issued a tracking stock for its wireless division, Sprint PCS, almost two years ago. As for the wireless unit, the company said it would add about 800,000 subscribers this quarter, about 100,000 fewer than many analysts had expected. Investors dumped shares of the tracking stock, sending them down $7.81, to $33. Shares of Sprint's main stock fell $1.50, to $26.81. Market Place. C14.
 
Federal Executive Faces Scrutiny
A top executive of the federal agency that guarantees pensions improperly steered $40 million worth of contracts to a minority-owned company, Congressional investigators are set to testify this morning before a joint meeting of two Senate committees. But the executive's boss said his own inquiries found nothing even mildly inappropriate. C6.
 
Oil Prices Climb Above $37 a Barrel
The price of crude oil climbed amid increasing concern about the effect of the rising price on the world's economy. In New York, oil for October delivery jumped as high as $37.80 a barrel but gave up some of its gains late in the day, ending up 69 cents at $37.20. C13.
 
Nasdaq Up as Other Gauges Slump
A flurry of afternoon buying lifted technology stocks and the Nasdaq composite index, but other major gauges slumped. The Nasdaq rose 31.80 points, or 0.8 percent, to 3,897.44. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 8.56 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,451.34, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 101.37 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,687.92. C13.
 
European Utility Deal Is Expected
In what is expected to spur further consolidation among European utilities, RWE, a German energy and environmental concern, is nearing an agreement to acquire Thames Water of Britain for about $6 billion, people close to the discussions said. C4.
 
Auditors Propose Tighter Rules
Two large accounting firms broke rank with other firms and offered a compromise proposal to impose significant restrictions on the consulting work that accountants can do for their audit clients. The proposal, by Ernst & Young and PricewaterhouseCoopers, does not go nearly as far as one that the Securities and Exchange Commission had put forth, but it would represent a victory for Arthur Levitt, the S.E.C. chairman, who seems determined to enact new rules this year. C12.
 
Trade Deficit Widens to a Record
The United States trade deficit widened to a record $31.9 billion in July from $29.8 billion in June as demand for autos, oil and Chinese toys and clothes pushed imports to their highest level ever, government figures showed. C12.
 
For Drug Prices, It's All in Location
When it comes to pricing for prescription drugs, the makers engage in what economists call "third-degree price discrimination." The strategy is to selectively cut prices and set different prices for different markets. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,687.92 down 101.37
Nasdaq composite -- 3,897.44 up 31.80
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.95% up 0.04
The euro -- $0.8472 down 0.0043
The dollar -- 106.66 yen down 0.28
 
Graph shows the daily closing price of Sprint PCS for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); AIRLINES (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CHAT ROOMS (57%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



493 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Move Beyond Prisons;
Ogdensburg Hires a Go-Getter to Help It Diversify

SERIES: THE OTHER ECONOMY: Reviving Ogdensburg

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: OGDENSBURG, N.Y.

 BODY:
Ask people in this lonely little city, so far north that it is practically part of Canada, and they will tell you that the one thing their town needs is a highway.
Ask the mayor, ask businessmen, ask union guys, and they will start lobbying for a four-lane to connect them to the rest of the state, so they can attract new businesses (and new people; it seems as if most everyone who lives in Ogdensburg was born there). 
 Ask Eyal Shapira about a highway, however, and he snorts: "Not in my lifetime." Rattling off the hurdles, from environmental to political to financial, he concludes: "I drove from Plattsburgh to Ogdensburg, 120 miles, and saw 50 cars in a two-and-a-half-hour drive. You don't need a four-lane highway for 50 cars."
Given that Mr. Shapira is now the operator of the local freight railroad, his speech -- which he delivers at high speed and with a marked Israeli accent -- is perhaps not surprising.
What is fairly astonishing, both to him and to the locals, is that Eyal Shapira, from Tel Aviv via Boston, is also in charge of luring companies and jobs to Ogdensburg. For the last six months he has been the area's industrial recruiter, hired by local governments, which means he basically works for all those folks who are pushing for the highway.
Like many communities upstate, Ogdensburg has been getting by economically because of prisons, of which it has two, both New York State medium-security prisons. It also has plenty of low-wage jobs that pay $8 an hour, according to John C. Krol, the city manager. "Many people here need to work two jobs to make ends meet," he said. "We desperately need some more higher paying jobs, but they're very hard to get." Enter Mr. Shapira.
"Culture clash" only hints at the contrast between Mr. Shapira, with his red Jeep and cell phone, and the low-key residents of Ogdensburg, which modestly bills itself as "one of New York State's best-kept secrets." People here are so polite and friendly that they say "Hi!" on the street to strangers (possibly they don't see many). Mr. Shapira's preferred form of greeting appears to be "Darling!"
But how and why he got to Ogdensburg tells a lot about this remote place. Indeed, his very presence is perhaps the boldest step yet that Ogdensburg has taken to bring itself into the 21st century and tap into the economic boom that has buoyed New York City and its suburbs.
While this is by no means the worst of times for Ogdensburg and its fellow towns in the North Country, the economy isn't exactly sizzling, either. In all of St. Lawrence County, an enormous swath of land that includes just 113,000 people (including Ogdensburg's 13,000), only 200 new jobs have been added in the last year, an increase of 0.5 percent; the statewide average is 1.4 percent. The county unemployment rate is 5.8 percent, the highest of any area outside New York City.
Given its history, Ogdensburg could be forgiven for being leery of outsiders, going back to the War of 1812. British Redcoats crossed the St. Lawrence River and captured the city (not, it must be said, without provocation). Then there were all those promises about what a boon the St. Lawrence Seaway would be after it opened in 1959. "It basically turned out to be a superhighway from Chicago and Duluth to Montreal or Europe," said Mr. Krol, the city manager. "Very few ships stopped here."
Worst of all, perhaps, was the time in the 1970's when consultants from New York City persuaded the town fathers to raze their old-fashioned downtown and build a low-slung shopping center surrounded by parking lots. It was not a success, and the city lost some of its charm, though it did gain some remarkable views of the river.
The extraordinary light and landscape of the St. Lawrence was a favorite non-Western subject of Frederic Remington, the painter and sculptor, who lived here in his youth; a museum dedicated to his works attracts flocks of Texans in boots and big cars during the summer months. And the city has other cultural attractions -- on Sept. 26, a professional orchestra and chorus will perform the works of Andrew Lloyd Weber.
This tidy city has retained many of its old-fashioned virtues, like neighborliness and very hard work. "As you arrive in Ogdensburg, you are going back in time," said Steve deJaray, chairman of Aim Global Technologies in Ottawa, which several years ago bought a plant here to assemble complex electronic equipment and is hiring more workers.
The area has long taken advantage of its proximity to Canada, though the economic links have been strained by the decline of the Canadian dollar and the transformation of North America into one big free-trade zone. Back when the Canadian dollar was strong compared with the American greenback, shoppers surged south over the soaring Ogdensburg-Prescott International Bridge.
William D. Nelson, a 40-year-old hospital administrator and since January the city's mayor, said that he and his family often hop in their boat and zoom across the river to Canada for dinner. And the easiest way to get from New York City to Ogdensburg is to fly to Ottawa and drive south for about an hour. Ogdensburg does have an airport, but the puddle-jumpers that serve it fly out of Pittsburgh.
Perhaps through necessity, Ogdensburg has also made something of a virtue out of its isolation from the rest of New York State. For more than a century, it has been the home of the state-run St. Lawrence Psychiatric Center, a huge clutch of stone-and-brick buildings with steep roofs and wide verandas, which are now mostly vacant. As such institutions for the mentally ill fell out of favor, the center's jobs dwindled, and efforts to sell the property have not come to anything.
The best jobs in town are at the prisons, where correctional officers make an average of $40,000 a year, plus benefits. Michelle Snye and her husband both teach horticulture to inmates, jobs that allow the Snyes to stay in the region where they grew up.
"The economy here is not doing as well as in New York City and other places," said Mrs. Snye, 48. If it weren't for the prisons, she added, "I'd be looking for work somewhere else."
Praise for the prison jobs propels Mr. Shapira into full rant. "Any time you see more than one prison in a community, you know people gave up," he said, gradually gaining speed. "Where I come from, we want our kids to go to Harvard, Yale, Brown. Nobody ever wants their kids to grow up to work in a prison. These are the most lucrative jobs? God help me, what's wrong with these people?"
The locals don't see it that way. Richard G. Lockwood was mayor of Ogdensburg for two decades before retiring last December. He is also a longtime schoolteacher who still buttonholes former students to urge them to attend college. He was the one who persuaded the state to put the first prison in Ogdensburg in the early 1980's.
"Some would argue that two prisons shouldn't be a feather in your cap," he said. "It was a stopgap," back when his hometown was reeling from cutbacks at the psychiatric center. To make matters worse, the biggest private employer, Diamond International, a paper products company, closed its pulp plant in 1978, and efforts to reopen it kept foundering (it is now being demolished).
"The psychiatric center was the lifeblood of this community," Mr. Lockwood said. "And if you didn't have someone working there, you had someone at Diamond. Then they were both gone."
As for Mr. Shapira, Mr. Lockwood has his reservations, as do others in Ogdensburg. "I don't agree with Eyal's image of this part of the world," he said. "His whole thing is, you can't do business by being nice. But I think you catch more flies with honey." (Mr. Lockwood is a beekeeper.)
Mr. Shapira also has his supporters. Mayor Nelson calls him a go-getter. Charles W. Kelly, the editor of the local newspaper, The Ogdensburg Journal, who is known universally as Chuck, is also a backer of Mr. Shapira's, as well as a driving force behind the committee to get that highway built. In addition to finding Mr. Shapira something of a hoot, he also appreciates the fact that "he's really trying to promote Ogdensburg, and that's what we need."
Mr. Kelly, who was born and raised here as one of 10 children, knows it is not the easiest place to be an outsider. "The joke is that you are not an acknowledged resident till you've been here 40 years," he said. "We kid people that after 25 years, you can start voting if you want to."
This is not news to Mr. Shapira. "Unfortunately, I will never be part of the community," he said. "I will always be an outsider."
Just being Jewish sets him apart in Ogdensburg, not to mention the accent. He came to this country in 1977 to visit his now ex-wife, Mr. Shapira said, and got into residential real estate around Boston. In 1990, he began to specialize in railroad-related real estate projects.
About three years ago, he said, the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority, which is the chief economic development agency here, approached him about operating its freight railroad, which connects the city's port to CSX Transportation's web of freight rails.
And though he had never operated a rail line, had never even played with Lionels as a boy, Mr. Shapira said, "Lo and behold, I own a railroad," the New York and Ogdensburg Railway Company. It was not much of a railroad; two years ago, it ran just once a week. In mid-September, Mr. Shapira said, it started running six days out of seven.
And Mr. Shapira has big plans. He says he has persuaded several large plastics companies to ship resins by rail to Ogdensburg, where the material will be transferred to trucks and sent to Canada. He hopes that eventually companies that use plastics will set up plants here. The railroad will also get more business next year, when a new plant making wood paneling opens right outside of Ogdensburg.
"He's gaining ground," said Danny L. Duprey, executive director of the port authority.
As Mr. Shapira began working on the railroad, Mr. Duprey was wrestling with another problem. He wanted to hire an outsider to help with economic development, someone with a fresh approach. But he wanted to pay that person only if there were tangible results, just as one would pay a real estate broker.
"Who's doing that? Nobody," he said. "And nobody would do it as a hired gun." Nobody, that is, except Mr. Shapira.
So six months ago, he got the job, representing the port authority, Ogdensburg and two other little towns. He gets $1,000 a month for his expenses, and a bonus for every job he actually brings in.
Though he thinks Mr. Shapira's efforts have been positive, Mr. Duprey added, "the verdict is still out" on whether his contract will be renewed in March.
The fit is clearly not ideal. With his very hard sell, Mr. Shapira sometimes comes off as "the consummate used-car salesman," Mr. Duprey said, and because he doesn't have roots in the area, he misses some of the subtleties.
For example, Mr. Shapira says he wants to improve the quality of life in Ogdensburg so people can afford to send their children to private schools. (Never mind that the public school and its Blue Devils teams are the city's pride and joy.) And he doesn't endear himself locally with remarks like, "We cannot convert Ogdensburg into Pittsburgh overnight."
But Mr. Shapira shrugs off criticism that he is too aggressive. "My style works for most people," he said. "Some people get offended." Those who complain "don't understand the urgency of the problem," he added.
"It's not only the railroad," he said. "I have become a geography teacher. I must educate everyone in the entire U.S. where is Ogdensburg."
 
The Other Economy
Upstate New York, a vast, diverse landscape of old cities, small towns, farms and forests stretching from Buffalo to Albany and north to the Canadian border, was once one of the most populous and prosperous regions of the country. But the national economic boom that swept into New York City and its suburbs passed it by.
This is the sixth article of a series that began April 9 examining the region's quest for prosperity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ogdensburg, N.Y., has a historic district, above, but an aging highway and rail system. A majestic bridge connects the city with Canada, but the Canadian dollar's decline and the closing of a paper pulp factory, below right, have hurt the economy. (Photographs by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times); Eyal Shapira is president of the Ogdenburg freight railroad and the city's business recruiter. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Ogdensburg, N.Y., has attractions like the Frederic Remington Art Museum, top, but City Manager John Krol, right, said well-paying jobs are needed. (Photographs by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. B13)
 
Map of New York shows the location of Ogdenburg. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OGDENSBURG (NY); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRISONS (86%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TRENDS (68%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; SHAPIRA, EYAL EYAL SHAPIRA (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



494 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: CHINESE SEE PAIN AS WELL AS PROFIT IN NEW TRADE ERA

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Sept. 20

 BODY:
China greeted its new prospects as a permanent American trade partner with official applause today, but there is growing trepidation as the country now shifts its focus to its future membership in the World Trade Organization.
Many Chinese worry that the country is ill-prepared to face the global competition that membership will bring. The global group's rules will force Chinese industries to become stronger in the long run, but many people are expected to lose their jobs along the way. 
 "It's a kind of double-edged sword," said Shen Dingli, an expert on China-United States relations. And people here are worried about the edge most likely to cut them.
The new trade status became a fait accompli when the Senate overwhelmingly passed a trade bill on Tuesday to end what China considered a humiliating annual debate about whether it deserved to be treated as a normal trade partner or warranted punishment for its shortcomings along with countries like Libya, Iraq and North Korea. The House already had approved the bill, and President Clinton is set to sign the law, which he considers a crowning achievement.
The new relationship will give both countries "a chance to start anew," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said in Beijing. But it is easy to find people here who worry about what that new beginning will bring. On Nanjing Road, Shanghai's busiest shopping street, two parking lot guards discussed the bleak prospects for Shanghai's auto industry, one of the town's biggest employers. "I think they'll die," one said.
And the manager of a cramped grocery store downtown shrugged with resignation when asked about the likely impact on his business.
"Already, medium-size shops like us can barely compete with the foreign megamarkets," said the gray-haired manager, who gave his name as Qiu. His prices are higher, the store's aisles narrower and its selection poorer than any of the sprawling Carrefours or Metros scattered around the city.
"We have high tariffs to protect us now, but after we join the W.T.O. there'll be no such protection," he said.
The trade bill has no direct bearing on China's membership in the 138-member regulatory group, which the country is likely to join later this year. But it clears the way for American companies to take part in the open markets that China promises to deliver as part of the trade group. Many of the markets to be opened are ones in which American companies are world leaders, so they pose the greatest challenge to Chinese companies.
Granting China permanent normal trade relations eliminates one of the main risks for American companies investing here. American-owned factories in China previously operated under the threat that they could be blocked from sending products home if the United States ever withdrew China's normal trading status. And Americans selling to the Chinese market worried during each year's debate that they could suffer an anti-American backlash.
That cloud has now disappeared.
With the bill approved and China's membership in the regulatory group on its way, China has become a more reliable low-cost production base for American companies, which have already invested more than $24 billion here. More investment dollars are now on their way to get a piece of the expanding market.
"Frankly speaking, this is a better deal for the U.S. than it is for China," said Lloyd Meeds, a former congressman and lobbyist from Washington State, one of the states that will benefit the most from expanding trade with China. Mr. Meeds is in Shanghai on a private visit.
But people like Lu Zhiqiang, deputy director of the central government's top research group, worry that China's local governments, industrial regulators and state-owned enterprises are not ready for what lies ahead, and he predicts that a wave of bankruptcies will sweep through the economy. "Solid and down-to-earth preparatory work is scarce," he was quoted as saying in the state-run China Daily this week.
China's 900 million peasants are among the least prepared. After China joins the world organization, duties for agricultural products will fall sharply from as high as 85 percent to 18 percent in some cases and import quotas will disappear, forcing China's farmers to compete with importers selling cheaper yet higher-quality American corn, soybeans, pork and chicken. American meat has already begun arriving in China under a related trade deal.
Other areas of the economy that have long been sheltered by government protection, telecommunications and banking, for example, will undergo wrenching change if China follows through on its promises to the World Trade Organization.
"The better-prepared businesses are those in sectors where there is already competition, such as manufacturing," said Zhang Xiaoji, an economist and member of Mr. Lu's research group. "The sectors that are still more or less monopolized by the government are less prepared."
The pain will not be reserved for Chinese companies alone. Western companies that have invested heavily in China often did so under the weight of costly obstacles, like lobbying, and they may now face competition from newcomers whose cost of entry to the market will presumably be lower, since barriers will be done away with under the world body.
And Western companies, like banks and insurers, will have to compete for China's limited number of white collar workers.
Foreigners also stand to lose the tax advantages that China has long offered as an enticement to investment. With protectionist barriers set to fall, many Chinese are calling for a unified tax system, so that local industries are not disadvantaged.
Nobody expects Beijing to deliver its economy to slaughter. Instead, its engagement in the W.T.O. beyond the tariff reductions or other well-defined areas is likely to be spotty and slow. For one thing, the organization's rules are often vague. And despite China's scramble to create a body of laws compatible with those rules, the interpretation of the laws will be left up to government agencies or local authorities that often have their own interests at stake.
What Beijing commands is not necessarily what local authorities obey. Companies that find themselves up against an infraction will direct complaints to the United States trade representative's office, which will undoubtedly be inundated with such claims.
"I think implementing the W.T.O. reforms is going to be a very gradual, drawn-out process," said Jon Eichelberger, a Beijing-based lawyer for the American firm Perkins Coie. He says that new laws and regulations take years to be adopted. And China usually leaves much up to the discretion of the agencies that carry them out. "I suspect that's going to continue," he said.
Still, parts of China's economy are preparing for membership. Through a spate of acquisitions, companies like Tsingtao Brewery are trying to build the critical mass necessary to compete with the world's multinationals.
And some sectors are relaxing restrictions ahead of schedule in hopes of helping domestic industries gain a better footing before new competitors arrive.
For example, the government has begun lifting restrictions on what models automakers can produce, and it has allowed companies some freedom in setting prices, even though the world organization will not demand those changes for another two years. The automakers' prospects are among the dimmest of China's key industries.
The result has been a spate of new models from the foreign auto companies whose joint ventures dominate the market. It has also allowed companies such as General Motors, Ford and Volkswagen to plan Chinese production of smaller, cheaper cars that can compete with imports once China joins the W.T.O. and protectionist tariffs fall from almost 100 percent now, to 25 percent within five years.
China is also opening its drug market to foreign retailers early, hoping to build a domestic industry that can compete. At least five foreign companies have teamed up with Chinese pharmaceutical companies to set up drugstore chains, among them Wal-Mart, which plans to set up pharmacies in the southern city of Shenzhen and Shanghai, China's commercial capital.
And foreign investors are being offered a majority stake in a proposed $2.4 billion, 2,500-mile natural gas pipeline from China's far western Xinjiang Autonomous Region to the east coast, the sort of strategic project that Beijing would never have allowed foreigners into before.
Foreign companies will soon also be allowed to bid for mineral prospecting rights.
Even the process of bidding has become more transparent. Projects up for bid must now be advertised in designated state newspapers, including the English-language China Daily. The government has set up a Web site to help: www.chinabidding .com.cn.
China will remove restrictions on distribution services for most products within three years after joining the world body. But it is already allowing logistics companies that help move imports in and out of a free trade zone in Shanghai to open branches in most Chinese cities.
China has already agreed to lift joint venture restrictions on large department stores and for virtually all chain stores. And it recently said it would allow foreign firms to own up to 65 percent in retail stores.
In many cases, W.T.O. membership will simply legalize what already exists.
Foreign headhunters will be officially allowed into China, though many of the big executive search firms are already operating here. And much of the foreign investment in Internet companies, now officially banned, will suddenly be legal.
But it raises legal questions, too.
Upon China's accession, foreign companies will be allowed to own up to 30 percent in companies providing value-added telecommunications services, including Internet content providers. But many such firms are already more than 30 percent foreign owned, and Beijing has given conflicting signals about whether those companies will be declared illegal.
Nor is it clear how e-commerce companies will be defined. Many of them provide additional services, and will argue that they should not be subject to ownership restrictions.
In some cases, foreign companies have begun jockeying for position to take early advantage of China's W.T.O. entry. Several Western firms are hooking up with Chinese fund management firms to offer advice, which is all they are now allowed to do. But after China joins, foreign companies will be allowed to own up to a third of fund managers and up to 49 percent after three years.
Foreign banks will be able to serve individual Chinese anywhere in the country after five years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKRUPTCIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



495 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: TAMING TIMES SQUARE -- Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that he would decide within the next two weeks whether to proceed with a long-awaited plan to widen sidewalks along Seventh Avenue and Broadway in Times Square. "The competition for space is ferocious, and the resulting pedestrian environment is significantly impeded by obstructed sidewalks, conflicts with traffic, and poor directional and informational signs," said a report released by the mayor's office yesterday. It was prepared jointly by the Department of City Planning and Department of Transportation. Mr. Giuliani said the first phase of the plan, installation of simpler street signs, would begin immediately. Thomas J. Lueck (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: $19 MILLION AWARD UPHELD -- A Staten Island man's $19 million personal injury award was upheld yesterday by a state appellate court. The man, John Brown, now 35, and his brother Virgil, 36, became quadriplegics after diving off a pier on Coney Island in 1992. Their lawyer, Harvey Weitz, argued in court that although the water was only 5 feet deep, the city had failed to post No Diving signs. Virgil Brown, was awarded $19 million as well, but the appellate court asked that a jury reconsider whether the city was 100 percent liable, Mr. Weitz said. Shaila K. Dewan (NYT)
 
HAUPPAUGE: COMPUTERIZED CANCER 'MAP' -- The National Cancer Institute held public meetings yesterday on a $4.8 million computerized mapping system to help researchers and citizens groups determine the causes of Long Island's elevated incidences of cancer. The effort is part of a $27 million study of cancer on Long Island. Computerized maps and other data will not be available until May, said a spokeswoman, Linda Anderson, but information can be found on the Web at http://www.healthgis-li.com. (NYT)
 
NEW YORK STATE: EXPERTS' WEB SITE -- To encourage businesses to consult professors and others in academia, more than 100 private colleges and universities have established a Web site listing research centers and institutes that have experts in 13 areas central to New York's economy. Albert J. Simone, president of the Rochester Institute of Technology and chairman of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, said yesterday that through the site, http://www .cicu.org, experts could be found to help with training and other services. Karen W. Arenson (NYT)
 
BUFFALO: SCHOOL CONTRACT APPROVAL -- The Buffalo Board of Education yesterday unanimously approved a five-year contract recommended by a state mediator, ending a strike by union teachers. On Tuesday, the Executive Committee of the Buffalo Teachers Federation approved the pact, subject to the school board vote. Teachers are to meet tomorrow for a final vote. The contract, which is retroactive to July 1, 1999, provides for raises of about 13 percent over its life. To balance the increases, teachers will pay more for their health insurance when they retire. (NYT)
 
THE BRONX: SUSPECT MAY HAVE STRUCK AGAIN -- A man who sexually assaulted three girls on their way to St. Thomas Aquinas High School last week as well as a 24-year-old woman on her way to Public School 205 may have struck again, the police said. At 8 a.m. yesterday, a man who fit the same description exposed himself to two girls, ages 14 and 16, near East 163rd Street and Washington Avenue, the authorities said. The police described the assailant as a dark-skinned Hispanic man in his 20's, between 5 feet 8 inches and 6 feet tall, with a short afro haircut. He was seen driving a blue 2000 Dodge minivan. Elissa Gootman (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
BRIDGEWATER: REWARD IN BIAS CRIMES -- The Anti-Defamation League is offering a $7,500 reward for the indictment and conviction of those who have been spraying swastikas and other anti-Semitic graffiti and of those who have been making threats against Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and Mayor James Dowden over the last two years. The league's regional director, Charles Goldstein, denounced the graffiti, left on signs, benches and seats, as a combination of bias crimes and attempts to undercut democracy. "This is a crime against the whole community," Mayor Dowden said yesterday. Robert Hanley (NYT)
 
SOUTH ORANGE: SETON HALL FALSE ALARMS -- The sensitive fire alarm system installed in Seton Hall University's seven residential halls after the fatal dormitory fire in January has inadvertently been touched off six times this semester by students taking hot showers, the university said. The two latest incidents occurred yesterday afternoon in Xavier and Cabrini Halls, forcing all students to leave. "The system has been adjusted as much as it can be while maintaining the utmost in safety," said a university spokesman, Molly McDonough. Robert Hanley (NYT)
 
WOODBRIDGE: A.T.M. FEES UPHELD -- After opposition from the banking industry, Woodbridge and Newark have agreed to drop attempts to ban fees at automated teller machines, officials said. Mayor James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge said the Township Council voted Tuesday night to rescind the ban, which had already been temporarily blocked by a federal judge in Newark pending the outcome of a lawsuit by the New Jersey Bankers Association to overturn it. Newark, too, was sued by the bankers association, although Mayor Sharpe James had threatened to veto a ban. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
STONINGTON: TRIBAL RECOGNITION SOUGHT -- Another group from southeastern Connecticut is seeking official federal recognition as an Indian tribe, becoming at least the third group to claim that its members are descendants of the historic Eastern Pequot tribe of Native Americans. The group, the Wiquapaug Eastern Pequots, filed a letter of intent this month with the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs. Federal recognition brings numerous benefits, including the possibility of casino gambling. Two other groups have won preliminary recognition, although their applications have been opposed by the state attorney general and others. David M. Herszenhorn (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CANCER (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); PERSONAL INJURY (68%); PARALYSIS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); SCHOOL BOARDS (63%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



496 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: SUPPORT OF THE MILITARY;
Military Backs Ex-Guard Pilot Over Pvt. Gore

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Al Gore enlisted in the Army and went to Vietnam. George W. Bush joined the Texas National Guard and did not. But for many people in uniform, that makes little difference. It is Mr. Bush, not Mr. Gore, who seems to enjoy some automatic credibility with the military because of his party affiliation, his policy positions, his running mate, his advisers -- and his father.
If Mr. Gore hoped his own military record would make him more palatable to the nation's 1.4 million men and women in uniform -- and by extension the 24 million who are veterans -- he might be disappointed. 
 Eight years after President Clinton's lack of a military record and his advocacy for gays in the military set the stage for his roiling relations with the Pentagon, Mr. Gore appears to have far less support in the military, especially among the officer corps, than his opponent. Mr. Bush, who did not serve in Vietnam but trained as a fighter pilot during his National Guard stint, has wide support.
In about 20 interviews in recent weeks, those in uniform or recently retired from service expressed overwhelming, though not universal, support for Mr. Bush -- not only as the Republican presidential candidate, but as a veteran and the son of former President Bush, who many said served ably as commander in chief during the military's shining moment after Vietnam, the Persian Gulf war.
They cited Governor Bush's policy proposals, his accusations that the Clinton administration had overseen a "military in decline," and his high-profile military advisers, including his vice-presidential running mate, Dick Cheney, a former secretary of defense, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who Mr. Bush has all but said would be a member of his cabinet.
"People are just more comfortable with the idea of a Bush-Cheney-Powell team in the White House again," an Army colonel said. (Even an Air Force colonel inclined to vote for Mr. Gore said he wished he could still cast a vote for General Powell as secretary of state.)
And when it comes to military service, an issue that dogged Mr. Clinton's campaign in 1992, many of those interviewed gave Mr. Bush the benefit of the doubt for his time in the National Guard, which attracted thousands of young people trying to avoid going to war in Vietnam. And they offered only grudging respect for Mr. Gore's decision to volunteer.
By contrast, it is not hard for Mr. Bush's supporters in uniform to find something to admire in his service flying F-102 Delta Dagger fighters for the Guard, even if he never went to war. "Anybody who was willing to take the risks to learn to be a fighter pilot is worthy," said one Army general, himself a Vietnam combat veteran. "He made a contribution."
Several military men noted that Mr. Gore was an Army journalist -- a profession of ill repute to many in uniform even if he was toiling on behalf of the Pentagon -- and served an abbreviated tour in Vietnam. "If he had served in combat and brought home a Purple Heart," an Army colonel said, "the contrast might have been greater."
Instead, as another officer put it using the sort of colorful language often heard in the military, "He was a public affairs puke."
The men and women in the military, of course, have traditionally been more conservative than the general electorate, especially those in the officer corps. In recent years, more of its members than ever have identified themselves as Republican. A survey last year by the Triangle Institute for Security Studies, a nonprofit foundation based in North Carolina, found that 64 percent of young officers were Republicans, compared with only 8 percent who were Democrats.
So support for Mr. Bush from those in uniform is not altogether surprising. Throughout his campaign, Mr. Bush has surrounded himself with so many retired generals and admirals, including General Powell and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, that some Gore advisers have taken to envious sniping.
"This is the kind of thing you see in the Third World -- all these generals lining up behind the politicians," one Gore adviser said.
Today, Mr. Cheney announced the endorsements of an array of retired military leaders, including several senior officers who served in influential positions under Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, a fact the Bush campaign was careful to emphasize.
One of those endorsing Mr. Bush, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, who recently stepped down as commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf, said he did not agree with some of the harshest accusations that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore had deliberately run down the military.
Still General Zinni said a changing world and mounting problems with readiness, including shortages of spare parts and problems with recruiting and retaining quality troops, needed more attention than they had received.
"We've have these problems for a couple years and they haven't been addressed," General Zinni said. He, too, praised Mr. Bush's advisers, including Richard L. Armitage, a senior Pentagon official in President Reagan's administration.
"To think that people like Cheney and Powell and Armitage will be part of a Bush administration," he added, "encourages me that there might be answers."
The military is not monolithic, of course. And Mr. Gore has several high-ranking military retirees supporting him. Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Adm. William Owens, a former vice chairman, have both advised the Gore campaign.
Several of those interviewed said Mr. Gore had stronger support among the enlisted ranks, which are more racially and economically diverse than the officer corps. One Army officer said that Mr. Gore was seen as more likely to be supportive of expanding the presence of women in uniform, noting that the Republican platform calls for separating new recruits by sex in basic training, something many women in uniform do not support.
"I think women and minorities will look at who is giving them the best opportunities," the Army officer said.
Still, it was clear that Mr. Gore -- despite his own record, his service on the Senate's Armed Services Committee and his relatively more hawkish views on defense issues compared with other Democrats -- suffered from his association with Mr. Clinton, whose relations with the military, especially early in his first administration, were tumultuous.
Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, people still serving in the military are prohibited from making disparaging remarks about civilian leaders, and the Pentagon's policy forbids overtly partisan political activities, so all of those interviewed in recent weeks spoke only if they would not be identified by name and, in some cases, rank, service and base.
Several said concerns about military readiness, which Mr. Bush has relentlessly raised, had grown on Mr. Gore's watch.
They also cited one of Mr. Gore's early missteps. During the primaries Mr. Gore said he would make support for gays serving openly in the military a condition for officers being considered for a position on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Mr. Gore reversed himself within days, but to many the damage was done.
"That was a disaster," a Navy officer said.
Leon S. Fuerth, a senior adviser to Mr. Gore, said that Mr. Gore had built enormous credibility on defense issues as a senator and as vice president. Mr. Fuerth also said Mr. Gore's service as an Army private would give him "some insight and understanding of military life" that would help him in dealing with the Pentagon's brass.
"President Clinton developed an excellent rapport with the armed services as time went on, but at the very beginning of the first Clinton administration, that wasn't yet in place," Mr. Fuerth said. "In the very beginning of a Gore administration, it would be in place."
Even one of Mr. Bush's staunchest supporters -- the former commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen. Charles C. Krulak -- agreed.
"All the people I talk to in the military, both those serving today and those who like me have retired," General Krulak said, "they're just happy to have somebody who knows how to salute." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (73%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS NATIONAL GUARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS NATIONAL GUARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (73%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); VETERANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CHENEY, DICK; BUSH, GEORGE PRESCOTT (FORMER PRES) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); DICK CHENEY (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



497 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Rich? No, Frugal

BYLINE: By Stanley Herz; Stanley Herz is chief executive of a management consulting firm.

DATELINE: SOMERS, N.Y.

 BODY:
After my mother-in-law died nine months ago, my family found itself among the 2 percent of Americans required to pay an estate tax. Suddenly we are among those whom President Clinton and Al Gore tag as "very rich."
But my wife's parents hardly lived an elite life. It is a leap to equate all the people required to pay estate taxes -- those whose assets exceed $675,000 -- with the very wealthiest Americans. As Gene Sperling, the president's economics adviser, has noted, half of all estate-tax revenues come from the top one-tenth of 1 percent of estates -- the assets of the truly wealthy. I suspect the rest of the families are much like my wife's. 
 Elsa and Peter emigrated to New York from Germany in the 1930's as newlyweds. They came with few possessions and even less money. They worked first in a joint endeavor, sweeping a movie theater together for minimum wage. Elsa graduated to cleaning houses and then to working as a hospital phone operator. Peter became a sales clerk. By 1940, they had entered the lower middle class, occupying a two-bedroom, fourth-floor apartment in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.
Since the eventual value of their assets put them in the ranks of the exceptionally rich -- or so the sound bites would imply -- the next chapter in this story might be expected to feature my in-laws starting an enormously successful company. In fact, Peter remained a sales clerk until his death in 1989 at 87, and Elsa retired from 40 years of answering phones. She died in the same fourth-floor apartment the couple had first occupied 55 years before. In their lives, they owned one car, a 1960 Dodge. Their daughter (my wife) worked from the time she was 16.
By living frugally, Peter and Elsa managed to put away a few dollars every month, investing in what they considered to be safe stocks. (AT&T was their largest holding.) When my father-in-law died, the savings were a cushion for his wife, but not even on the radar screen of the estate tax threshold.
His widow, then approaching 80, was satisfied to have the cushion to provide for contingencies (read: nursing home). And near the end of her life, when it was clear that she wouldn't outlive her assets, she was proud she would be leaving money to her daughter and grandchildren.
Then the stock market took off, and now my wife is about to give Uncle Sam a big chunk of Peter and Elsa's lifetime investments -- more than a third of everything over $675,000. (The tax is graduated, with a top rate of 55 percent.)
If my in-laws had been among the really rich, they would have had a coterie of tax lawyers setting up trusts to shield their heirs from a portion of the tax bill. Instead, like most people with middle-class lifestyles, they had a plain-vanilla approach to financial planning.
Most children and grandchildren who must forfeit part of an inheritance are from similarly middle-class families where assets arose from hard work and steady savings -- family values that shouldn't be penalized. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES ESTATE TAX (92%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FAMILY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); 

PERSON: HERZ, STANLEY BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



498 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Report Questions Bank Lending Standards

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Banks are taking on riskier loans as fierce competition and the drive to increase earnings encourage loan officers into relaxing standards, a government report said today.
In an annual survey of the nation's largest banks, the Comptroller of the Currency said his agency was concerned about the rise of lending to borrowers with credit difficulties, as well as being worried about highly leveraged lending. 
 "We remain quite concerned about the high levels of 'embedded' credit risk on the books of some banks as a result of relaxed underwriting and risk selection in prior years," said John Hawke, Comptroller of the Currency, part of the Treasury Department that is one of several bank regulators.
The report echoes the frequently voiced concerns of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and other regulators that banks are letting their standards slip in the nation's record economic expansion.
Some modest improvement has been made in standards for commercial loans, and standards for retail loans are essentially unchanged, the report said. But it found considerable risk in bank portfolios because of the level of risky loans taken on in previous years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY TREASURY DEPARTMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); 

PERSON: HAWKE, JOHN D JR (COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY) ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



499 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC RUNNING MATE;
Lieberman Is Criticized On Violent Entertainment

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: WARRENSVILLE HEIGHTS, Ohio, Sept. 20

 BODY:
William J. Bennett, who has often joined forces with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman in assailing violence and vulgarity in popular culture, sharply attacked Mr. Lieberman today, accusing him of retreating from that cause.
Mr. Lieberman, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, denied the accusation, arguing that he and Vice President Al Gore had, in fact, been tougher on the entertainment industry than their Republican opponents, and suggested that Mr. Bennett's remarks were motivated by his support for Gov. George W. Bush. 
 The exchange between two men who called each other friends stemmed largely from a fund-raiser on Monday night in Beverly Hills, Calif., attended by Mr. Gore, Mr. Lieberman and several entertainment executives and stars. At that event, Mr. Lieberman muted his criticism of the industry, a week after he and Mr. Gore proposed new regulation of its marketing of violent and sexual material to children.
"Al and I have tremendous regard for this industry," Mr. Lieberman said Monday night. "It's true from time to time we will have been, will be critics, or noodges, but I promise you this: We will never never put the government in the position of telling you by law, through law, what to make. We will nudge you, but we will never become censors."
Today, Mr. Bennett, the conservative moralist who was secretary of education under President Ronald Reagan and drug policy director for President George Bush, released a statement saying: "I am deeply disappointed by Senator Lieberman's recent comments to members of the entertainment industry. Senator Lieberman so softly voiced his criticisms about the products of that industry that they were barely audible."
Mr. Bennett said, "I did not realize that when Joe Lieberman and I were denouncing the filth, sewage, and mindless bloodletting of the popular entertainment industry, calling it what it is -- degrading and dehumanizing -- we were just being 'noodges.' "
Saying he was "disappointed" by Mr. Bennett's comments, Mr. Lieberman said, "I wonder whether this is a sign of a campaign that's faltering or kind of anxiously trying to figure out how to regain the momentum."
A spokesman for Mr. Bennett, Jeff Kwitkowski, said there was nothing partisan about the criticism, insisting, "We're not playing sides here."
Last week, the Federal Trade Commission reported that the entertainment industry routinely marketed adult material to children. Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman proposed that if the industry did not change its practices within six months, the commission should impose regulations on the marketing of movies, video games and music, and that a new law to that effect should be passed, if needed.
"The fact is that Al Gore and I, after the F.T.C. report, made the toughest statement," Mr. Lieberman said today. "Where was the Bush-Cheney ticket on the F.T.C. report? They expressed concern, but there was no teeth to anything they said."
Republicans contend that Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman have been hypocritical over the issue, criticizing the industry while raising millions of dollars from it.
Today, for the first time, Mr. Lieberman replied directly to that accusation.
"Part of leadership," Senator Lieberman said, is "to be willing to stand up to your friends and supporters and say, 'we think you're wrong on this.'
"I'm looking forward to the day when I see George Bush and Dick Cheney stand up to their friends in the oil industry," he added, "their supporters in the oil industry, and tell them they think they can do better than they are now for American consumers and the American economy, or to stand up to the tobacco industry or the N.R.A."
Though he softened his remarks on Monday night, Mr. Lieberman has been a steadfast critic of some elements of the entertainment industry. In testimony last Wednesday before the Senate Commerce Committee, he warned of "the culture of carnage surrounding our children," who, he said, had been focused on by the entertainment media with "a toxic mix turning some of them into killers."
But he has also stressed that while he hoped to cajole and embarrass the industry into changing what it produced, he did not advocate government regulation of content, but only of marketing practices, a point he also made before this campaign.
In his statement, Mr. Bennett said, "I'm saddened that my friend Joe Lieberman's powerful, direct criticisms became sotto voce when he was among many of those whose work he had previously criticized."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; VIOLENCE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); DRUG POLICY (70%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, WILLIAM J; PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) JOE LIEBERMAN (93%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



500 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Agency Projects Costs of Earthquakes in U.S.

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
While California suffers the most economic harm from earthquakes, cities in other parts of the country, like Seattle, New York, Salt Lake City and St. Louis, are also at risk of heavy damage and should be doing more to prevent such harm, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said yesterday.
The agency conducted the study, its first nationwide projection of earthquake losses in monetary terms, to guide disaster planners and to show that earthquakes can be as economically devastating as hurricanes and flooding. 
 Researchers reviewed when and how often quakes occur, and the value and condition of buildings in 1994, the latest comprehensive data available. Then they projected the number and strength of earthquakes over hundreds of years -- long enough to account for rare, powerful tremors in places like the East Coast.
Based on those computer models, they calculated that earthquakes would cause an average of $4.4 billion in damage and lost income a year in the United States, comparable to the losses from hurricanes.
While acknowledging that the condition and value of buildings is likely to change greatly, the study's authors said it would give disaster planners a baseline for understanding how much economic risk their communities face.
Magnitude 7 earthquakes, for example, hit Charleston, S.C., in 1886, and off the Atlantic coast of Canada in 1929. A quake that size hitting an East Coast city today would probably cause tens of billions of dollars in damage, much more than if it hit a better-prepared West Coast city.
The agency plans similar studies in the next two to three years to predict hurricane and flood damage. When those studies are released, local officials will be better able to prepare, said Dr. Stuart Nishenko, senior seismologist at the agency who was the study's project officer.
Because of its large population in quake-prone regions, the West Coast sustains the biggest losses, the study said, with California absorbing almost three-quarters of the damage.
The agency's model does not predict losses in any given year but provides a comparison of damage to various cities over centuries. In the projection, Los Angeles suffers the highest loss of any metropolitan area, an average of $1 billion a year.
But the damage to the New York City area, averaged over the next 2,500 years, would be only 5 percent of that confronting Los Angeles. Even so, that is the most of any metropolitan area outside of the West Coast, and 11th over all.
The estimates include only damage to buildings, not bridges, roads or other infrastructure.
In the New York City area, most years there are no earthquakes. But three moderate temblors, about magnitude 5, have struck nearby in the last 300 years, and a quake that size today would probably cause several billion dollars of damage.
Dr. Klaus Jacob, a senior research scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University and an executive committee member of the New York City Consortium for Earthquake Loss Mitigation, estimated that a magnitude 5 earthquake could cause about $5 billion of damage.
"When it gets to a magnitude 6, that's when it gets nasty," he said. A quake that size, he said, would cause about $30 billion of damage.
In 1995, the city amended its building code to include seismic requirements for new buildings and older buildings undergoing major renovation. Since 1993, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has included seismic retrofits in major renovation work on its bridges. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SEATTLE (WASH); NEW YORK CITY; SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); WEATHER (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); CITIES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); 

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



501 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 6; Circuits 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Passing Up College

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Choosing a Salary or Tuition" (Sept. 7), about young programmers who are forgoing college: Clearly it's too late to tell young programmers jumping into the high-tech world about the nonacademic benefits of college, like learning social skills and meeting people outside your own socioeconomic group. All that's left is to appeal to their economic and professional ambitions.
The thrust of programming management for the last 20 years has been toward reducing the "black art" of the 60's to an ordinary craft, with fungible drones in cubicles doing one job at a time, like design, coding or testing. The impetus has not so much been economic as it has been an effort (with mixed results) to control the quality of the software being produced. 
 If young people knowingly decide to start out as the tradesmen of the future, that's quite all right. But they should know that the surest route to advancement (in what they might contemptuously refer to as the "old paradigm") has been formal training. I don't care to buy a product from a company whose chief information officer hasn't studied "irrelevant" required courses like configuration management, compiler theory, numerical analysis and (most irrelevant of all to a geek) a course on "people skills."
 
TIMOTHY H. BUCHMAN
Wyckoff, N.J.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MATHEMATICS (63%); 

PERSON: BUCHMAN, TIMOTHY H

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000



502 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 41; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Time Warp of Two Asias in One Place

BYLINE: By FRANK GIBNEY; Frank Gibney, author of "The Pacific Century" and other books, is president of the Pacific Basin Institute and professor of politics at Pomona College in California.

 BODY:

THUNDER FROM THE EAST
Portrait of a Rising Asia
By Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn
Illustrated. 377 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.50.
The blacktop road was sleek and new. Modern cars and trucks whizzed past clean shops and restaurants, a far cry from the Java countryside he had last visited 10 years before. All the more shocking when this correspondent for The New York Times, on a trip reporting the 1997 Asian economic crisis, found his way blocked by a procession of young men on motorcycles cheered on by excited villagers, proudly carrying the head of a newly murdered "sorcerer" on a pole. The sorcerers, the ninja, were the guilty ones, he was told. Islamic vigilantes had killed them and more would be killed to destroy their magic. 
 This story begins the first chapter of a book written by two Times correspondents, Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn, describing the turmoil in Asia at the century's end. (The co-authors, who are a married couple, wrote alternate chapters.) I can think of no better way to epitomize the contrasts between modern, often dazzling economies and half-hidden ancient folkways that continue to bubble up throughout the Asian countries. Historical time-change may be the best way to describe the differences between tradition and technology, new education and old religion, emergent nationalisms and top-down globalization.
Unlike geographical time-change, which is at least marked by watch settings and disturbed circadian rhythms, historical time-change is ever-present and unpredictable. It is the inescapable byproduct of assorted Asian "miracles" in which intellectual and economic pressures condensed within decades the modernizations that Europeans and Americans took centuries to achieve.
In their book, challengingly subtitled "Portrait of a Rising Asia," Ms. WuDunn and Mr. Kristof have taken upon themselves the daunting task of explaining How, Why and What Next. On the whole they have made a good job of it. From regional plans of the International Monetary Fund to local education systems, from war crimes to environmental problems to the changing status of women, they give the reader a handy Baedecker on an increasingly confident continent and on East Asia in particular. They show a good sense of history in sketching Asian backgrounds.
But most of all this is a reporter's book in the best sense of the word. The pace of the writing is a bit breathless -- taking a quick run barefoot over an entire continent would leave any writer a bit winded. The authors' views of countries and conditions are anchored in their searching interviews with the people who live and work there. These range far and wide. We hear the story of a failed big-time developer in Thailand, a rickshaw owner in Indonesia, a child prostitute in Cambodia, a battered wife in Korea, a computer tycoon and a hard-pressed local factory owner in Japan. What characterizes almost all of the interviewees is their dedication to work and their patience and perseverance in the face of adversity (for this the authors use the classic Japanese term, gaman).
About the Asian economic crisis of 1997-98 they are very good indeed. They underline three major factors: 1) the lopsided ratio of short-term economic loans against foreign exchange reserves; 2) the neglect of regulatory infrastructures and legal safeguards; and 3) the disastrous self-confidence of Asian tycoons, bankers and governments. They also point out the faults of Western bankers and international organizations -- the I.M.F. in particular -- in not making accurate assessments of the crisis and discounting the hardships of those injured by it.
I agree thoroughly with their first major argument: the Asian economic crisis was the best thing that could have happened to Asia. It entailed a terrific human cost, but it is also helping to destroy much of the cronyism, protectionism and government regulation that had burdened Asian business. It helped start a political, social and economic revolution and forced a greater reliance on markets, democracy and the rule of law.
I have some major problems with their second argument, which is that partly because of this forced restructuring, Asia is likely to wrench economic, diplomatic and military power from the West over the coming decades. The first problem concerns geographic reach. Except for some brief sketches of a recently opening India, South Asia goes largely unreported. If we narrow the authors' focus to East and Southeast Asia, the similarities and parallel advances they cite make abundant sense, bringing closer to fulfillment the early prophecy of the Japanese writer Okakura Tenshin: "Asia is one." Their reports on villagers dying of pollution are sobering. (The environment is one of the bleakest prisms through which to view Asia.) Equally shocking are the interviews of friendly old Japanese veterans about their World War II atrocities.
Mr. Kristof and Ms. WuDunn's economic comparisons tell us much about generally underreported countries like Indonesia and Thailand. I question some of their political and social assumptions. Their analysis of China is wise if equivocal. Their analysis of Japan is something else again. Despite a wealth of reportorial recall, including their own experiences with Japanese schools, and good analyses of the banking system's collapse, their reading of Japan's current society and politics is quite shallow. For one thing they say surprisingly little about the roots of Japan's current malaise: the one-party rule of the Liberal Democratic party -- with the possible exception of the Communist Party of China the most pervasively corrupt and crony-ridden apparatus in the region.
In fact the disastrous prevalence of dominant single parties -- Indonesia's Golkar and Malaysia's Umno also come to mind -- are as much a regional characteristic as ingrown national bureaucracies.
For all that they speak of changes over decades, the authors seem to underrate the political undertow that in so many places threatens to roil the rising tides of progress. Unquestionably Asia's demography will ultimately prevail, but it will be a long time in coming, punctuated by reverses. And economic, diplomatic and military power will rarely come together. Meanwhile, Asia's historical time zones remain very, very far apart.
Such cavils aside, Mr. Kristof and Ms. WuDunn have given us an impressive and well-researched study of the world's most important area. Their insights are illumined by their good reporting. It will be a long time before I forget the mortally sick Chinese villagers, the riches-to-rags-and-back Thai entrepreneur and the sturdy citizens of Omiya, not to mention the happy motorcyclist holding up the severed head.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn (Sara Barrett/Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: THUNDER FROM THE EAST: PORTRAIT OF A RISING ASIA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WITCHCRAFT (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); LITERATURE (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); WOMEN (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); RELIGION (69%); MARRIAGE (67%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (66%); PROSTITUTION (50%); 

PERSON: GIBNEY, FRANK; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; WUDUNN, SHERYL SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



503 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 26; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES;
Another Drama Beneath the Sea

BYLINE: By Dave Kehr 

 BODY:
Topicality isn't what Kathryn Bigelow had in mind when she began development on "K-19" four years ago. The plot outline of the film, about a Russian submarine trapped at the bottom of the sea, sounds alarmingly similar to the plight of the Russian sub Kursk, which held the world breathless last month.
But "K-19," which Ms. Bigelow will begin filming in March, is based on another incident, though one equally tragic and equally true. 
 "This is the story of two men," Ms. Bigelow said over breakfast at the Toronto Film Festival, where her most recent film, the historical thriller "The Weight of Water," had its world premiere, "Nikolai Zateyev and Vladimir Yenin, who were Russian submarine captains at the height of the cold war in 1961. On the maiden voyage of Russia's first atomic ballistic nuclear submarine, it had a malfunction in its reactor at the bottom of the North Sea and began to melt down. This was off the coast of Norway, about a mile from where there was a NATO base."
Kept secret at the time, the incident became public only when glasnost made it possible for Zateyev to publish his memoirs.
Ms. Bigelow, whose work includes the science-fiction film "Strange Days" and the police drama "Blue Steel," has never restricted herself to anything resembling traditional "women's pictures," and "K-19" (the title comes from the name of the sub) doesn't sound like an exception.
"Over the next few days," she said, "these two men -- Zateyev, the commander, and Yenin, the executive officer -- managed to avert what could have been a Chernobyl-like disaster. It was a truly extraordinary situation that elicited courage in a way almost unthinkable in the face of certain, catastrophic disaster and miraculously did manage to have some survivors."
The script, by the New York playwright Chris Kyle, is based on original research and interviews, notably with Zateyev's widow. "One of my technical advisers in St. Petersburg happens also to have been very, very close with several of the officers on the Kursk," Ms. Bigelow said. "The Kursk incident was an incredibly emotional experience for me and the people I am working with on this, because of how close I've become to this project and the individuals involved, and of having actually met some of the survivors of the K-19.
"But in a way what happened with the Kursk further impelled me to make this film. 'K-19' examines the courage and the prowess of these men. This will be the first major American motion picture in which Russians are the heroes, and I guess I have lofty intentions for it.
"Right now I'm afraid that the Russians are deeply embarrassed, that their pride is shattered. I feel I want to give them their pride back, but without the arrogance, and without the cold war disinformation. I don't want them to think they're having their face rubbed in the Kursk incident. I want them to see that they're being actually revered. There's a unique stamina and resilience in their psychology, and when you read Tolstoy and Pushkin, you see it all. It's an amazing mind-set, very, very different from our own."
 
Factory and Family
The plot line of Laurent Cantet's social drama "Human Resources" hangs on the attempt to impose a 35-hour workweek in France, a measure intended by the Socialist government to create more jobs in a country that urgently needs them.
But, Mr. Cantet said by phone from his Paris office, "I noticed that when I was presenting the film in Sundance that the first question that journalists from the U.S. and Canada asked me was, 'Is it true that in France you only work 35 hours a week?' And a lot of them added, 'Like that, you can have two jobs at once.' So there you see a very, very wide gap between our different ways of conceptualizing things."
In a restrained, documentarylike manner Mr. Cantet's film tells of Frank (Jalil Lespert), a young man from the working class who returns from business school to take a job as a junior executive in the factory where his father works. At first he hopes to use his new position to improve the lot of the workers by conducting a survey to see how the employees would like to see the 35-hour week structured. But when the smiling boss (Lucien Longueville), who has taken Frank under his wing, uses Frank's statistics as an excuse to reduce the work force, the young man finds himself caught in a classic conflict.
"The point of departure was the family story," Mr. Cantet said, "I wanted to explore the links that necessarily exist between intimate affairs and politics. Private life is never really private. Everything we experience has to take the social environment into account.
"In the family there is a natural hierarchy between the father and the son. The idea of the film was to look at the workplace, and see how that hierarchy could be reversed."
"Human Resources" was cast almost entirely with nonprofessional actors, many of whom Mr. Cantet found by visiting government unemployment offices. "I met five or six hundred people and did tests of them all and made my choices."
Danielle Melador, who memorably plays a feisty union representative, really is a union representative, and is "just as combative in life as she is in the film." The boss is played by an actual boss who took time off from his factory in a Paris suburb to appear in Mr. Cantet's movie.
"Human Resources" was shot in a working factory in Normandy that produces parts for cars, but in the film its product remains somewhat mysterious.
"I wanted something abstract, just a bit of twisted metal really," Mr. Cantet said. "The idea was to show that the father was attached to his work for work's sake, not out of an artisan's pride in a well-made object."
 
Sanity Clause
"They were dear to me," said Kitty Carlisle Hart, speaking of her famously unruly co-stars in "A Night at the Opera," the 1935 film she made with the Marx Brothers. "They didn't play any tricks on me, and they liked me, because we became friends forever after that."
Ms. Hart will appear at a members' screening of "A Night at the Opera" on Oct. 1 at 1:30 p.m. at the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street in the South Village, and answer questions afterward.
"I saw it recently at a benefit I did in Santa Fe," she said. "And it was the first time that I'd seen it in a long, long time on a proper screen. Let me tell you something: It's no good on TV. But on a big screen it is hilarious. I enjoyed it very much."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathryn Bigelow is about to make a film about a Russian submarine. (Steven-Charles Jaffe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: K-19 (MOVIE); HUMAN RESOURCES (MOVIE); NIGHT AT THE OPERA, A (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (58%); CANADA (57%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: ;MARX BROTHERS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;MARX BROTHERS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FRANCE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (58%); CANADA (57%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; SUBMARINES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; LABOR OCEANS (90%); FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); COLD WAR (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); WRITERS (75%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (51%); 

PERSON: KEHR, DAVE; BIGELOW, KATHRYN; CANTET, LAURENT; HART, KITTY CARLISLE KATHRYN BIGELOW (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



504 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
British Airways and KLM End Merger Talks

BYLINE: By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
British Airways and KLM abandoned their merger talks today after months of discussions failed to produce a workable blueprint for what would have been one of the most ambitious airline combinations.
Numerous regulatory and operational hurdles, in the end, were too much for the bargaining powers of the two companies to overcome. "We always recognized that this would be a complex transaction, involving not only commercial and economic issues, but also aeropolitical, regulatory and other matters. Although we made considerable progress, it has not been possible to resolve these," said Rod Eddington, chief executive of British Airways, and Leo van Wijk, chief executive of KLM, in a joint statement. 
 The talks and their collapse leave a trail of uncertainty about the future of consolidation in the airline industry in Europe and the United States.
"The regulatory hurdles in place are hard to overcome," said Martin Borghetto, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. "The process wouldn't have been solved within weeks or months."
British Airways had been betting on substantial savings from a KLM merger to help it return to profitability after registering losses last year for the first time last year since its privatization 13 years ago. But to achieve such a goal, British Airways executives had insisted on control over the merged airline, people close to the negotiations said.
Obtaining that control would have threatened the antitrust immunity KLM receives as part of the so-called open skies agreements negotiated between the Dutch and American governments, an executive close to KLM said. That immunity, contingent upon a certain percentage of KLM remaining in the hands of Dutch nationals, allows KLM to share sales, pricing and operational details with its United States partner, Northwest Airlines.
British Airways is not currently protected by similar immunity, and is more restricted in the information it can share with its partner in the United States, American Airlines. The British and American governments have been working toward such an accord, and the latest talks are scheduled for Oct. 18-19.
Roger Maynard, director of investments at British Airways, said the company had devised a structure that it believed would have allowed KLM to retain its antitrust immunity status. It had called for KLM to place existing route rights in a Dutch holding company that would operate as a subsidiary of the merged British Airways-KLM airline.
KLM, however, balked at becoming a subsidiary.
Without a structure for the combined company, British Airways and KLM were unable to agree on price, people close to the negotiations said.
Other issues that still needed resolution included disposals of certain hubs necessary to meet antitrust approval. It is also unclear which U.S. alliance would have remained intact.
Moreover, British Airways and KLM would have faced the problems of integration that confront many mergers. Some analysts said the companies remained as incompatible for merging now as they were in 1992, the last time they discussed merging.
Since then, British Airways has been repositioning itself as a premium carrier by focusing on first-class and business-class passengers. KLM, has been battling with other European carriers for lower-fare passengers.
Some analysts said that the collapse of the negotiations diminished the likelihood of such mergers in the future.
"When you merge, you have to take a lot of costs out of the business to make it worthwhile," said Chris Tarry, an analyst with Commerzbank. "And that always entails more risk."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The collapse of the British Airways-KLM talks leaves uncertainty on the future of airline mergers. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (87%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES NV BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES NV

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; NETHERLANDS; EUROPE; UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MERGERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); IMMUNITY (88%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



505 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
'Trust' Theme Turns to Taxes

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
Representative Rick A. Lazio, the Republican Senate nominee, began broadcasting two 15-second television advertisements statewide yesterday. This one, "Taxes," criticizes his Democratic opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, accusing her of supporting tax increases over the years. The other, "Scores," paints a negative picture of her record on education as the first lady of Arkansas.
 
TITLE -- "Taxes" 

PRODUCER -- Murphy Pintak Gautier Hudome Agency
 
ON THE SCREEN -- A small picture of Mrs. Clinton in a red box next to a banner that says "Clinton." Below the banner is the phrase "Record on taxes." As the narrator speaks, the word "Expensive" flashes on the screen in gray, and then "supported 15 tax increases" and "higher taxes on Social Security" pop up. The closing scene is a picture of Mrs. Clinton in the center of a black screen over the words: "Hillary Clinton. You just can't trust her on taxes."
 
THE SCRIPT -- "What's Hillary Clinton's record on taxes? Expensive. Hillary Clinton has supported 15 tax increases, including higher taxes on Social Security benefits. Hillary Clinton. You just can't trust her on taxes."
 
ACCURACY -- To back up its claims, the Lazio campaign released a list of tax increases enacted by the federal government through President Clinton's 1993 tax legislation and by the state of Arkansas when she was first lady there in the late 1980's.
The Clinton campaign responded with a list of tax cuts Mrs. Clinton has proposed to spur the economy upstate. They also pointed out newspaper and magazine accounts quoting Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, as crediting the 1993 plan with helping to stimulate the economy.
 
SCORECARD -- The negative commercial, as with several others questioning the trustworthiness of Mrs. Clinton, comes as two polls this week suggested that voters were developing a negative perception of Mr. Lazio, based in part on his performance in last week's debate. But, although people generally say they abhor them, negative commercials have been effective. This ad, though short on visual panache, offers reinforcement to Mr. Lazio's base of conservative supporters who despise tax increases almost as much as they despise Mrs. Clinton, and it may raise questions among elderly voters concerned about the fate of Social Security.
 RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



506 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Statistics: A Survey Of Crime and Punishment

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN 

 BODY:
In its analysis, The New York Times examined homicide rates in two groups of states: the 12 states without the death penalty and the 36 states that passed laws within 10 years of the Supreme Court's 1972 Furman v. Georgia decision, which overturned all existing death penalty statutes. (New York and Kansas did not adopt the death penalty until the 1990's.)
The analysis found that homicide rates have not declined any more in the states that instituted the death penalty than in states that did not. 
 In fact, year after year, homicide rates in states with death penalties roughly mirrored the rates in states without capital punishment, with death penalty states 48 percent to 101 percent higher. That trend, criminologists say, provides evidence that something besides enactment of capital punishment laws drives homicides.
"It's clear that the states with the death penalty may want it more because they have more homicides," said Alfred Blumstein, director of the National Consortium on Violence Research at Carnegie Mellon University. "But it's not clear that it does them any good in terms of reducing homicide."
Even after executions resumed, homicide rates appeared unaffected, the analysis found. In the 21 states that carried out their first executions by 1993, homicide rates declined a collective 5 percent over the four years after the execution. But rates declined 12 percent in states that had not had executions in the same years.
The Times also looked at contiguous and demographically similar states, and found no pattern that differentiated death penalty states from those without capital punishment. Massachusetts and Rhode Island, with no death penalty, had homicide rates of 3.7 per 100,000 and 4.2 per 100,000, respectively, from 1977 to 1997, while Connecticut, a death penalty state, had a rate of 4.9 per 100,000.
The survey by The Times is similar to the type of analysis criminologists used in the years before the Supreme Court's Furman decision to conclude that state homicide rates were not affected by death penalty laws. The review by The Times confirms that those patterns appear to continue under the new era of capital punishment statutes.
Some researchers still contend that the death penalty has a measurable deterrent effect. "The statistics involved in such comparisons have long been recognized as devoid of scientific merit," Prof. Isaac Ehrlich, of the State University of New York at Buffalo, said of the analysis by The Times. He said that if variations like unemployment, income inequality, likelihood of apprehension and willingness to use the death penalty are accounted for, the death penalty shows a significant deterring effect. Most criminologists, however, discount Professor Ehrlich's work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Comparing Four States"
The homicide rates in four states with different approaches to the death penalty follow a largely similar trend. The states are Texas, with by far the most executions since the death penalty was reinstated; California, with the largest death row population but relatively few executions; New York, with a small number of death row inmates and no executions, and Michigan, which has no death penalty.
 
Graph tracks death penalty executions in TEXAS (231 executions), CALIFORNIA (8 executions), MICHIGAN (No death penalty) and NEW YORK (No executions) since 1982.
 
(Source: National Center for Health Statistics and Census Bureau homicide rates ; Death Penalty Information Center executions )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; STATES (US) CRIME RATES (97%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (93%); HOMICIDE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TRENDS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (60%); 

PERSON: FESSENDEN, FORD ISAAC EHRLICH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



507 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Focuses on Access Of Disabled to Computers

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., Sept. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton gazed at a computer screen today at a community center for the disabled and -- using only the movement of his eyeballs -- haltingly typed out a two-word message: "Good morning."
Never mind that it was well past noon or that the computer repeatedly misread the president's stare. By experimenting with the innovative technology, the president sought to draw attention to the possibilities that computers present to those with disabilities. 
 Mr. Clinton, accompanied by administration aides who are disabled, said hooking up more handicapped people to the World Wide Web would integrate them into the economy and enable them to live fuller lives.
"We all know that not everyone has shared in the American economic renaissance," the president said in a speech at Mott Community College. "We all know there are people and places who have been left behind, including millions of Americans with significant disabilities who want to go to work, but whose path is blocked and who could work and contribute, not only to their own lives, but to the rest of us, as well."
As part of his continuing effort to bridge what the White House has labeled the digital divide, the president announced a variety of modest initiatives aimed at increasing the number of disabled people with access to computers.
He said 45 technology companies had pledged to do more to make their products and services accessible to the disabled. And he announced that the Department of Education would provide $16 million in grants to make cyberspace more accessible.
Studies show that only 24 percent of the country's 54 million people with disabilities have access to a computer, compared with 52 percent of those without disabilities. And a review of state and federal government Web sites by Darrell M. West, a Brown University professor, found that only 278 of 1,813 sites provided disability access.
One site that has received positive reviews is the White House home page. Susan Scheer, executive director of the Center for Independence of the Disabled in New York, said two disabled people, one blind and one with a head injury, reviewed www.whitehouse.gov recently and "both thought that it was very, very good."
White House aides said they chose to come to Flint because of an innovative computer center for the disabled here, not because of an embarrassing episode involving Vice President Al Gore this month.
Mr. Gore apologized to Chad Swiatecki, a local reporter who uses a wheelchair, after the journalist wrote an article saying he was unable to cover a Gore campaign event because it was not accessible to the handicapped.
Today, five wheel-chair-accessible vans were added to the motorcade to carry a few journalists and guests who were disabled.
On his tour of the nonprofit Disability Network, Mr. Clinton tried the EyeGaze system that allows eye movements to control a cursor.
"It's hard to do but if you train you can get it down," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton talked with people with disabilities yesterday at Mott Community College after a speech in which he announced initiatives to increase access to computers for the disabled. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MOTT COMMUNITY COLLEGE WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTT COMMUNITY COLLEGE WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: HANDICAPPED; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET DISABLED PERSONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); WRITERS (83%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); DISABLED ACCESS (76%); ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); HEAD INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



508 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Edward S. Gordon, 65, Is Dead; Founded Real Estate Firm

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
Edward S. Gordon, a commercial real estate broker who built one of the largest real estate service companies in the New York metropolitan region, died yesterday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 65 and lived on Long Island and in New York City.
The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Cheryl Gordon. 
 Mr. Gordon was known as an executive whose dealmaking skills allowed him to complete transactions in the complex real estate industry of New York and as one who could turn problem properties into assets.
He was also able to recruit high-powered commercial brokers to work for his company, which he founded in 1972, rather than for more established organizations. Before founding the company he was a broker at the firm of Huberth & Huberth.
By the time it was sold in 1996 for $74 million to the publicly traded Insignia Financial Group, the Edward S. Gordon Company rivaled such companies as Cushman & Wakefield in the number of leases arranged each year.
After his company's acquisition by Insignia, Mr. Gordon remained as a member of the office of the chairman as the company grew nationally and internationally. It now has offices in Chicago, Atlanta, San Francisco and London. The number of employees has grown from about 500 to approximately 3,500 in that time, a company spokesman said.
Last year, Insignia/ESG handled 130 of the 480 leases for space of more than 10,000 square feet in the New York area, compared with 92 for Cushman & Wakefield, according to CoStar, a real estate data collection company.
Mr. Gordon's clients included the Sony Corporation of America, for which he arranged to lease of the former AT&T building at 550 Madison Avenue, Chase Manhattan Bank, The New York Times Company, Viacom and the developer Donald J. Trump.
One of Mr. Gordon's most successful efforts when his company was new involved a building at 1166 Avenue of the Americas, a 44-story skyscraper at 45th Street that was completed in 1974 as the city was heading into a financial crisis and the demand for office space was evaporating. The building sat vacant for four years, resulting in tens of millions of dollars in losses to the owners and their lenders.
In 1978, Mr. Gordon persuaded the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association and what was then the New York Telephone company to buy the structure, with New York Telephone occupying about half its 1.6 million square feet of space. The next year, he leased the remainder of the building to the International Paper Corporation, assuring the profitability of the property.
Both transactions received the Innovative Deal of the Year award from the Real Estate Board of New York.
Mr. Gordon was also involved in the rehabilitation in the late 1970's of the Chrysler Building, a landmark site that had been neglected by its previous owners. Part of his marketing campaign was a series of newspaper advertisements that showed the building rising from the bottom of the page on successive days, symbolizing its renovation.
Associates said Mr. Gordon brought an intensity to leisure activities as well as to business. Although he was not initially a golfer, he grew interested in the game while participating in the development of the Atlantic Golf Club in Bridgehampton Mill on Long Island, which opened in 1992. Afterward, he built his own nine-hole course on his 60-acre estate across Scuttle Hole Road from the club and used it to help complete deals.
When he was called to active duty in the Army Reserve in 1961, Mr. Gordon took the departure from the family importing business as an opportunity to learn how to fly an airplane. He continually upgraded his skills, including learning how to fly jet aircraft. In the mid-1980's he made a solo flight over the Atlantic Ocean, according to Stephen B. Siegel, president of Insignia/ESG.
"He hired a band to meet him at the airport outside London where he landed," Mr. Siegel said.
Mr. Gordon was raised in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, one of two sons of a family whose business was the sale of imported novelties and hardware. He participated in the business during his teenage years, adding new lines of products. He switched to real estate after his tour of military service.
He is survived by his wife, the former Cheryl Gruetzmacher; his mother, Laura Gordon of Hallandale, Fla.; a brother, Allan Gordon of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Kenneth, of New York City; a daughter, Robin, of Harrison, N.Y.; and four grandchildren. A daughter, Paula, died in 1986.
Mr. Gordon was previously married to the former Joan Grossberg, who is the mother of Kenneth and Paula. He was also married to the former Ellen Galowitz, who was the mother of Robin, and who died in 1993.
Andrew Farkas, the chairman of Insignia Financial Group, said he first encountered Mr. Gordon while he was still a college student and Mr. Gordon was the president of his own company. "I was building an econometric model of commercial real estate in Midtown Manhattan and I needed data," he said. "Eddie said I could have the data, but said that I had to give him the model if it worked. So the day after graduation, I did."
Mr. Farkas said Mr. Gordon resisted participating in various investment vehicles he subsequently promoted, but when Mr. Gordon decided to sell his company, he called Mr. Farkas first. "We did the deal over lunch," Mr. Farkas said.
Mr. Gordon sponsored advertisements promoting the achievements of New Yorkers. One was the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, now named for Intel, a contest that often had a disproportionate number of New York students as winners. One year when city students did especially well, he devised an advertisement with the headline, "It must be something in the water."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward S. Gordon
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (91%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (91%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (91%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (62%); CB RICHARD ELLIS SERVICES INC (56%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (54%); VIACOM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PAPER MFG (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, EDWARD S; HOLUSHA, JOHN DONALD TRUMP (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



509 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Says North Korea Is Still a Dangerous Military Threat

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Despite recent signs of a diplomatic warming on the Korean peninsula, a new Pentagon report has concluded that North Korea remains a dangerous military threat, pouring its limited resources into a buildup of conventional forces and the development of short- and long-range missiles.
The report, required by Congress and sent there last week, offers a far more pessimistic assessment of North Korea than many Clinton administration officials have expressed since the summit meeting between the North and South Korean leaders in June. 
 Even as the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, has pursued a string of diplomatic initiatives, the Pentagon's report warns that the North Korean Army has deployed "large numbers" of rocket launchers and artillery batteries along the demilitarized zone between the North and the South.
North Korea has also stockpiled chemical weapons and has continued developing its missiles, though it has honored its pledge to American negotiators last year that it would not test them, the report says. That finding echoes a broader intelligence report completed last summer that warned that North Korea's ballistic missiles remained a threat to the United States.
"While the historic summit between the North and the South holds the promise of reconciliation and change, no evidence exists of the fundamental precursors for change," said the report, which has not made public. "There is little or no evidence of economic reform or reform-minded leaders, reduction in military, or a lessening of anti-U.S. rhetoric."
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen, visiting South Korea today, appeared to underscore many of the report's findings. "North Korea's chemical, biological, nuclear and long-range missile programs continue to pose a threat to South Korea, the U.S. and other countries," he said at a news conference.
After meeting with South Korea's defense minister, Cho Sung Tee, Mr. Cohen said North Korea needed to take concrete steps to reduce tensions -- something American officials have said would include reducing the troops and weapons along the demilitarized zone. He added that the roughly 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea would remain "for the indefinite future."
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and other senior administration officials have voiced strong support for the Korean diplomatic efforts. American officials have stepped up their own talks with the North Koreans, including a new round set to begin in New York City next week that will focus on the North's missile programs, its weapons sales and what the United States believes is its support for terrorism.
The Pentagon's report reflects a far more skeptical view in the administration about the motives behind Mr. Kim's surprising opening. The report said it was not yet clear whether the North Korean leader was truly committed to a peaceful resolution along what is called the last front of the cold war.
The report -- written by American commanders in South Korea, defense intelligence officials and policymakers at the Pentagon and signed by Mr. Cohen -- says that in the last year North Korea's military has continued "to grow in both conventional and asymmetrical forces," meaning nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as the missiles to launch them.
The pessimism on North Korea's missile programs reflected a similar conclusion reached by a broad review by American intelligence agencies earlier this year when President Clinton was considering whether to move ahead with a limited national missile defense. Mr. Clinton postponed a decision last month but warned that the missile threat from countries like North Korea was real and growing.
The report says North Korea has more than 500 shorter-range Scud missiles and continues to make and field No Dong missiles able to strike American forces based in Japan. The report also warns that North Korea has "produced munition stockpiles of several types of chemical agents" and has the ability to produce biological weapons, using anthrax, smallpox and bacteria that cause cholera and the plague.
Despite economic hardships that have ravaged North Korea for the last 10 years, the report says, the government has allocated "precious resources" to its military forces, buying new fighter aircraft, making improvements in defenses and conducting its largest winter training exercises ever.
North Korea "maintains a dogged adherence to a 'military first' policy even against the backdrop of a nation facing severe economic and social challenges," it concludes.
The Pentagon's report acknowledges the North-South summit meeting and other diplomatic advances, as well as divisions among American experts about their significance.
One military officer who closely follows North Korea said today that the Pentagon was underestimating the potential for a breakthrough and resisting changes in its forces in South Korea that could ease tensions further. "The U.S., in my opinion, is obsessed with the status quo," he said.
But the report's overriding conclusion is that diplomacy has so far done little to alter the perceived threat. Economic and internal security problems, as well as "the specter of continued brinkmanship" by North Korean leaders, it says, "could contribute to regional instability and result in renewed military aggression by the North."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); TERRORISM (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



510 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: In Testimony, Firestone Puts Onus on Ford

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Firestone began an unusually explicit attack on the safety of Ford Explorers in testimony before a House subcommittee today as the two companies criticized each other's products and executives from both companies tried to explain internal documents that committee members found incriminating.
Firestone said that operating a Ford Explorer with its tires inflated to the pressure recommended by the automaker, 26 pounds per square inch, provided a smaller "margin of safety" than existed for the Chevy Tahoe, Jeep Cherokee and other competing sport utility vehicles. Ford said that Firestone tires on 1996 Explorers were involved in fatal rollover accidents at a rate 15 times that of Goodyear tires on the same vehicle. 
 At one point, Helen O. Petrauskas, vice president for environmental and safety engineering at Ford, told Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, who presided at the hearing, that the 26 pounds per square inch her company recommended was not only the optimum level for handling, ride comfort and tire endurance, but was also well within the guidelines of the Tire and Rim Association, an industry group based in Akron, Ohio.
She was interrupted by John Lampe, executive vice president of Bridgestone/ Firestone Inc., who said that "26 is the minimum for a speed-rated tire, Congressman."
Most tires sold for vehicles that use highways are speed rated, a measure that gives the maximum speed at which they can operate. Mr. Lampe seemed to be suggesting that tires meant for highway use needed a minimum inflation of 26 pounds per square inch. Some tires sold for off-road use are not speed rated.
The Tire and Rim Association publishes a table that lists the carrying capacity of tires based on their air pressure, which does, in fact, go down to 20 pounds per square inch, although the significance of extending the table that far is not clear, with most highway vehicles carrying inflation recommendations of 26 pounds or higher.
"The only reason it does is that's how much room there is on the page," said an executive at another tire company, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The carrying capacity of the Explorer is an issue because if the tires are overloaded, they overheat and may fail. Firestone agreed a decade ago with the 26-pound recommendation, but Mr. Lampe pointed out today that at 30 pounds per square inch, a level of inflation that his company has been recommending since August, the Explorer can handle 400 more pounds.
A table distributed by Firestone shows that the 2000 Explorer, with tires inflated at Ford's recommendation of 26 pounds, would be safe. But if the pressure fell by 7 pounds -- as is common, Firestone said, because many people fail to check their tire pressure -- the four-door, four-wheel- drive model would reach its carrying capacity. And if the pressure fell any further, it would be overloaded even if the weight of the passengers and cargo was within Ford's limits. The comparable "margin of safety" figures for models with two doors, or two-wheel drive, run from 8 to 12 pounds per square inch.
In contrast, according to Firestone, the Chevy Blazer and Tahoe, Dodge Durango and Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo have margins ranging from 14 to 18 pounds per square inch.
Mr. Lampe, in his turn to testify, struggled to explain how a 1996 test of scores of tires at the company's Decatur, Ill., plant, where most of the faulty tires were made, managed to show a substantial number of failures in which treads separated from tires, the failure now blamed for about 100 deaths in cases in which Explorers have rolled over.
A Firestone document turned over to Congressional investigators described the test of 239 tires from the factory, some of them prototypes but 129 of them regular tires from the production run. Of those, investigators say, 15 failed; the company said it was 11; 6 had tread separations.
"That's more than acceptable, isn't it?" asked Bart Stupak, a Michigan Democrat, who said he wanted to know why the company did not notify Ford and federal officials.
Mr. Lampe replied that the test used was "very abusive" and far more severe than those required by the government. And he added, "In every case, we retested tires again; we didn't close our eyes; we didn't walk away from a problem."
But he did not say in testimony what the company did about the problem, other than test additional tires. He declined to answer the question in a session with reporters after his testimony, conducted in a hallway outside the hearing room.
Mrs. Petrauskas, in her testimony, tried to convince the members of the committee that it made no difference that the vehicle that Ford had used to test the Firestones at 26 pounds per square inch was not an Explorer, as the company had initially said, but an F-150 pickup truck rigged to mimic an Explorer's weight distribution. The company had previously said it used an Exporer for the tests.
The committee, struggling to complete its hearing and move on to work on legislation stiffening reporting rules, managed to hold its members' opening statements to 61 minutes, compared with more than two hours at its last hearing. Ideas varied, though, on what the law should say. Rodney Slater, the Secretary of Transportation, showed up late and endorsed criminal penalties for "egregious violations" of existing laws.
Committee members varied on whether instituting criminal penalties would be helpful. Representative John Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said it would probably encourage corporate executives not to cooperate with investigations, so as not to incriminate themselves. But the Senate Commerce Committee unanimously approved a bill on Wednesday that would provide such penalties.
Another issue is whether to allow the Transportation Department to establish a measurement of vehicles' tendency to roll over, and publish the data for consumers. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration would like to do so but has been blocked by Congress; today several committee members said they favored such an index.
There was still no clarification of why the tires fail. Mr. Lampe of Firestone, who said on Sept. 12 that his company had brought in an outside expert to determine why the tires had failed, said today that the expert had actually started work a couple of days ago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lampe, executive vice president of Bridgestone/Firestone, during hearings yesterday. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. C5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GT (SWX) (90%); GT (NASDAQ) (90%); GT (BRU) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS326212 TIRE RETREADING (91%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (91%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (90%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (90%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE/FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FORD MOTOR CO; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; TIRE AND RIM ASSN BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS HOLDING INC (91%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIDGESTONE/FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FORD MOTOR CO; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; TIRE AND RIM ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS TIRE MFG (90%); TIRES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; PETRAUSKAS, HELEN O; TAUZIN, BILLY (REPR); LAMPE, JOHN DAVID FORD (94%); W J 'BILLY' TAUZIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



511 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: 'SOFT MONEY' BAN CALLED A PROBLEM FOR MRS. CLINTON

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton has become so dependent on soft-money donations to promote her candidacy that it will not be easy for her to forsake them. She would have to rely solely on financing from her official campaign committee, which has lagged in its fund-raising in recent months even as it spends at a marked rate.
The Clinton campaign had spent $14.9 million as of Aug. 23, according to its most recent disclosure filing to federal regulators. Only $4 million of that, or 27 percent, went to commercials, perhaps the most crucial item in a campaign budget. 
 Several political consultants not involved in the New York Senate race said they were surprised that so little of her money had been used for commercials. As a general rule, a campaign should spend 50 to 80 percent of its budget on them, the consultants said.
With most of the Clinton campaign's money consumed by salaries, travel and direct-mail solicitations, Mrs. Clinton has turned to advertising financed by soft money that she collected in league with Democratic allies in Washington and Albany.
Mrs. Clinton's reliance on soft money helps explain why her opponent, Representative Rick A. Lazio, has pressed in recent weeks for an agreement to prohibit it in the contest. Yesterday, the managers of the two campaigns met at a Midtown hotel to negotiate one, with no success.
The Democrats have channeled at least $5 million into soft-money advertisements praising Mrs. Clinton and attacking Mr. Lazio, campaign records show.
Mr. Lazio has not collected soft money, but some political committees and advocacy groups have bought commercials to aid him. Mr. Lazio's aides say those commercials cost a total of $350,000; the Clinton campaign puts the figure at $750,000.
Donations to candidates' campaigns, so-called hard money, are limited to $1,000 for a primary and $1,000 for a general election per person, with unions and corporations barred from contributing. Soft money is collected by the political parties, and anyone can give, in any amount.
The parties are supposed to use soft money for voter drives and other activities to build general support; technically, it cannot be spent directly to help candidates. The parties have increasingly sidestepped this rule by spending soft money on commercials that promote or criticize candidates without urging viewers to vote for or against them.
Mrs. Clinton appeared cautious yesterday in her comments about an agreement to prohibit soft money. She has said she will not renounce soft money until the Lazio campaign can guarantee that Republican and Conservative Party committees, as well as outside advocacy groups, stay out of the race.
Asked whether her interest in an agreement was genuine, Mrs. Clinton said she had broached the issue before either of her Republican opponents, Mr. Lazio or Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who dropped out of the race in May.
"I'm the one who called for it months and months ago," she said after an event in Buffalo yesterday. "I called for it when the mayor was in the race, and I called for it as soon as the congressman got in the race. We're just going to see how it develops."
The Clinton campaign later released a statement saying that the talks would continue today but noting that it had "real questions" about how such an agreement would be enforced. During the negotiations, the two sides discussed appointing prominent politicians or campaign finance experts as monitors.
The Clinton campaign is not alone in questioning whether an agreement can be enforced, given its voluntary nature. Some experts say these agreements often fall apart, and note that politicians often use them to posture, rather than to bring about real change.
Mrs. Clinton's aides defended her spending, saying that her campaign was not typical. They noted that she had been on the trail for more than a year and as a first lady had attracted enormous attention from the public and press. As a result, the campaign had to hire an extensive staff.
"Nobody has ever been through a campaign that has been at this level and intensity for this long," said Mandy Grunwald, a senior adviser to Mrs. Clinton.
Ms. Grunwald said she was not concerned that the campaign would run short of money for commercials in the final weeks before Election Day. "We will have the money that we need to do the job we want to do," she said.
Political consultants not involved in the race said the spending on commercials by the campaign was unusually low. "It's a lot of money to have been raised without having put that much on the air," said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant in New York City who is not involved in the Senate race.
While Mr. Lazio has not harvested soft money, fund-raising by his official campaign committee has flourished, in part because he has been able to reach out to donors around the nation who dislike Mrs. Clinton. In a seven-week period over the summer, he raised $10.7 million in hard money, while she took in $3.3 million. On Aug. 23, he had $10.2 million in the bank, while she had $7.1 million.
Since entering the race in May, Mr. Lazio has spent $9.5 million. Of that, $3.5 million, or 37 percent, has gone to commercials. While that amount is also relatively low, Mr. Lazio had to spend much of the money he raised at first to set up his campaign.
In Congress, Mr. Lazio supported legislation to ban soft money, but did not earn a reputation as a die-hard reformer. Democrats have noted that before becoming a Senate candidate, he raised soft money for Republican political committees in Washington.
In seeking an agreement, Mr. Lazio's aides acknowledged a tactical advantage: it would cut off a vital source of money for his rival. That is one reason the Lazio campaign has swiftly tried to counter any objections to an agreement from the Clinton campaign.
On Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton's aides pointed out that the New York Republican State Committee had indicated it would not abide by any agreement between the two candidates to bar spending by committees and groups outside their campaigns.
By yesterday, after prodding from the Lazio campaign, the Republican State Committee announced that it would refrain from spending soft money on the race while the two campaigns negotiated an agreement. The committee has produced just a single soft-money radio commercial.
Meanwhile, the New York State Democratic Committee, which has produced several soft-money television commercials to help Mrs. Clinton, released two more. One, to be shown in upstate markets, criticized Mr. Lazio's views on the upstate economy. The other, to be shown in New York City, seeks to link Mr. Lazio to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich.
Campaigning last night in Schenectady, Mr. Lazio called the party's actions "shameless."
"It is the worst possible statement about their sincerity in terms of coming to an agreement," Mr. Lazio said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigning in Buffalo yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



512 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Campaign Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

 BODY:

THE DEMOCRATS
 
A SHOW OF SUBSTANCE -- All year, Vice President Al Gore has campaigned as the candidate of substance and detail (sometimes numbing detail), while portraying Gov. George W. Bush of Texas as fuzzy on substance and detail. Now Mr. Gore's running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, is following suit. Yesterday while visiting a computer chip plant in Florida, a major swing state, he delivered the first in a series of speeches that his aides said were designed to reinforce the image that the Democratic ticket is one of substance and detail. For 45 minutes he spoke on the "new economy" and the glories of high-tech training and research, and by the time he finally finished he had also touched on the uses of steam engines in the 18th century, the computing capacity of electronic gadgets like Palm Pilots and the need for the government to pay down debt to keep interest rates low. "We are literally at what might be called the big bang stage of the information technology universe," he said. Richard Perez-Pena (NYT) 

THE AD CAMPAIGN
 
SWIPE AT DIVERSITY DISAVOWED -- Democrats called it race-baiting this week when a conservative group started broadcasting a television advertisement in Missouri, a swing state, that features a white woman saying that she pulled her son out of public school because there was "a bit more diversity than he could handle." And after taking a look at the ad, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Jim Nicholson, condemned it, "forcefully and without equivocation," as he put it. At the same time, Mr. Nicholson charged that a pair of Democratic advertisements in 1998 were similarly racist and demanded that the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Joe Andrew, condemn them. Mr. Andrew did not immediately respond. The latest ad, which shows a multiracial group of teenagers milling around as the woman speaks, concludes with a "Vote Republican" plea and is sponsored by a group that calls itself the Republican Ideas Political Committee. Republican officials say the group has no ties to the party. (NYT)
 
THE GREEN PARTY
 
NADER'S 'CATCH-22' -- Though he has little chance of participating in the presidential debates, Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate, says he plans to attend the three forums in Boston, St. Louis and Salem, N.C. as a "commentator," if any reporters want his analysis of the give-and-take. He says, too, that ABC and the Fox Network are still considering his proposal for additional debates that would include him and Patrick J. Buchanan, the Reform Party candidate. Asked why he has not won the 15 percent poll ratings needed to qualify for the three debates, Mr. Nader replied: "It's a Catch-22. If you don't get mass media, you don't go up in the polls. If you don't up in the polls, you can't get mass media." James Dao (NYT)
 
THE INTEREST GROUPS
 
N.A.A.C.P. WEIGHS IN -- The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is spending $9 million on political advertisements and door-to-door organizing to increase black voter turnout in a dozen states in which the presidential race or one or more Congressional races are rated tossups. Run through a new organization, the N.A.A.C.P. National Voter Fund, the effort has registered 21,000 new voters and signed up 2,345 volunteers to help get black voters to the polls, said Julian Bond, the association's board chairman. The group will also run advertisements about the candidates' stands on particular topics without urging viewers to vote one way or the other. As a group, black voters have favored Democrats. The targeted states are Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin. (AP)
 
THE TRAVEL LOG -- Yesterday was the kind of day that saw Gov. George W. Bush don a blue-on-blue Regis Philbin ensemble to go "Live With Regis," where he talked of strengthening Social Security and cutting taxes. It was also the kind of day that led Al Gore to suggest that Mr. Bush must have thought he was on Mr. Philbin's other show, "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," given his views on taxes and retirement money. The stats for the day:
 
Length of the Official Day: Gore, 13 hours (6 1/2 debate preparation); Bush, 15 hours
States Visited: Gore 2, Bush 3
Towns and Cities Visited: Gore 3; Bush, 3
Events: Gore, 2; Bush 2
Press Conferences/Interviews: Gore, 0; Bush 5
Diners Visited/Unscheduled Drop-bys: Gore, 0; Bush 1
Miles Jogged: Gore, 0; Bush 3
Main Message: Gore, energy independence; Bush, Social Security 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); REPUBLICAN IDEAS POLITICAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN IDEAS POLITICAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US GREEN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (88%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



513 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Web Retailer To Bring Jobs To the Bronx

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
A huge building in the South Bronx that has been largely vacant for several years is to be taken over by a major Internet retailer in a move that will provide 900 jobs in the area, city officials said yesterday.
The decision of the company, Webvan Group Inc., to move to Hunts Point comes as Internet and telecommunications companies are rediscovering former manufacturing areas in the city as ideal solutions to their space needs. 
 "This is a huge deal for the South Bronx," said Fernando Ferrer, the borough president. "It is the largest single shot of jobs in the borough during my public service, which goes back 20 years." And many of the jobs, he said, would be fairly well paying: $30,000 and more a year.
Webvan plans to move into a nearly 10-acre single-story building at 331 Tiffany Street and use it as a distribution center for the groceries and other consumer items it ships to customers who place their orders over the Internet. The building was a distribution center for the Alexander's department store chain from the 1970's until it went out of business eight years ago.
As part of the expansion into the northeast, Webvan, which is based in California, is also building a distribution center in North Bergen, N.J., a company spokesman, Bud Grebey, said.
Although Webvan signed a lease for the 400,000-square-foot building in April, and despite the deal's economic benefit to the South Bronx, it had not been publicly disclosed because of problems in scheduling an announcement by city and state officials whose agencies played a role in bringing the company to the site by offering it incentives, one official said.
Mr. Ferrer said that the city's Economic Development Corporation played a major part by "coming up with a package of incentives" for the company.
John Melia, a spokesman for Mr. Ferrer, said the agencies had agreed to provide benefits worth about $11 million to the company in the form of city and state sales tax abatements and reductions in property taxes.
In addition, the company will get tax credits for every person it hires who lives in the area, he said, and the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, an affiliate of the borough president's office, will use its job data bank to help Webvan hire nearby residents. He said the workforce would initially number 500 and eventually grow to 900.
The company's decision to move to the Bronx comes as the borough continues to enjoy an economic revival after the lean years of the 1970's and 80's, when it lost population, jobs and housing and became a national symbol of urban decay.
"The addition of 900 jobs goes a long way to extending the Bronx's revival," Mr. Melia said. "Attracting a company that is part of what many consider the new economy is a demonstration that the hard work that's gone into turning around the South Bronx is paying off."
Webvan's planned move to the area also illustrates how much in demand old industrial buildings have become for Internet-related and telecommunications companies.
The old Bush Terminal on the waterfront in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for example, is being converted into a technology campus. Other dot-com and telecommunications companies have been moving into industrial buildings in the Brooklyn waterfront area known as Dumbo and in Long Island City, Queens.
Webvan has signed a 10-year lease for the entire Bronx building, with options to renew, said Lawrence Smith, an executive vice president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, the real estate firm that represented both Webvan and the building's owner, the Feil Organization, in arranging the lease. Mr. Smith would not disclose the rent.
Renovations have already started. But while local officials said they expected Webvan to move in early next year, Mr. Grebey, the company spokesman, said, "We have not announced a timetable."
Mr. Grebey said that he did not know the average salaries that would be paid at the Bronx operation, but that the highest-paid workers would be the couriers delivering the ordered goods, who would be paid about $41,000 in their first year. All employees will receive stock options, he said.
While complaints of truck traffic have been increasing from residents of Hunts Point, Mr. Ferrer said he did not see that as a problem with Webvan's operation. He said that the company's site was a "straight shot" from nearby highways and that "the truck impact will be negligible in the residential area" of Hunts Point. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WBVN (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WEBVAN GROUP; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) WEBVAN GROUP INC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEBVAN GROUP; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR INTERNET RETAILING (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) FERNANDO FERRER (71%); BUD GREBEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



514 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: IN WASHINGTON STATE;
Bill Gates's Senator Confronts Upstart Internet Challenger

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Just as Henry M. Jackson was once known as the Senator from Boeing, Washington State's Slade Gorton is delighted to call himself the Senator from Microsoft, a man whose pit-bull advocacy for the software giant in the nation's capital has earned him the corporation's gratitude and campaign contributions from William H. Gates and other company officials.
But as he runs for a fourth Senate term this fall, Mr. Gorton finds himself in a fierce race against a Democratic opponent, more than 30 years his junior, who has even closer ties to another large software company in the Northwest. 
 She is Maria Cantwell, a top executive at RealNetworks, a Seattle company that pioneered audio and visual technology on the Internet and that in just a few years helped her accumulate a personal fortune her campaign estimates at $40 million. Ms. Cantwell, a 41-year-old former congresswoman, vows to spend "whatever it takes" to unseat Mr. Gorton.
That RealNetworks and Microsoft happen to be rivals has only added spice to the Senate race here, and Ms. Cantwell herself is a highly noteworthy candidate in several respects. While other high-tech millionaires have run for the Senate, she is the first from the Internet industry. And, as the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University puts it, no woman in the country's history has spent a greater amount of money earned entirely by herself on a race for major elective office.
After spending $5 million and decisively winning Tuesday's Democratic primary over the state insurance commissioner, Deborah Senn, Ms. Cantwell is generating huge attention here for one more reason: she might just win in November.
Several recent statewide polls have shown her close to -- or in one case, dead even with -- Mr. Gorton. And aside from her money and relentless pitch as the candidate of the "new economy," several other factors have helped to tighten a contest that now offers Democrats a solid chance to pick up a Senate seat that had once seemed safe for the incumbent after several better-known Democrats, including Gov. Gary Locke, passed on the race.
For one thing, at 72 years old and a fixture of public life here for more than 40 years, Mr. Gorton finds himself facing eerie parallels in Ms. Cantwell's themes to those he invoked in 1980, when he ended the 44-year Congressional career of Senator Warren G. Magnuson, then 75.
For that race 20 years ago, Mr. Gorton pointedly jogged to the state Capitol in Olympia to file papers for his candidacy. And in one TV spot, showing him running through a park in Spokane, an announcer asked viewers to imagine a senator "who is still in the prime of his life."
Now Ms. Cantwell is stressing this time-for-a-new-generation theme. She reminds voters that Mr. Gorton has been in elected office for about as long as she has been alive, and says it is time for a "vigorous" senator with "new ideas."
She has also picked up on environmentalists' continuing ire over a legislative maneuver by Mr. Gorton last year. In attaching a rider to a bill providing aid to Kosovo war victims, he assisted a Texas company's bid to open a gold mine in rural Washington which would use a cyanide-leach process that could pollute the area's rivers. Ms. Cantwell accuses Mr. Gorton of advocating "19th-century solutions to 21st-century problems."
In response, Cynthia Bergman, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gorton's campaign, said that Ms. Cantwell has "got new money, but old-style government solutions."
Officials at Microsoft describe Senator Gorton as a leader on high-technology issues. He has been a vehement critic of the Justice Department's antitrust suit against the company, and his ties to Microsoft have been further strengthened by several daylong visits to the corporate campus in Redmond, where he has received detailed briefings on how Microsoft products work.
To judge by federal election records, there is little question that Mr. Gorton is Microsoft's candidate. The corporate political action committee has given him $10,000, and Mr. Gates, the chairman, as well as Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive, have each contributed the maximum of $2,000 for this election cycle. All told, Microsoft employees have contributed $97,925 through Aug. 30, according to the nonpartisan Campaign Study Group of Springfield, Va.
Ms. Cantwell has received just $8,500 from Microsoft workers, none of them top officials. But she has received $47,300 from RealNetworks employees. And the company's billionaire founder, Robert Glaser, has held fund-raisers for her.
Far more important, Mr. Glaser did the favor of hiring her as one of the company's first employees shortly after she was voted out of Congress in the Republican tide of 1994, a move that ultimately turned her into a multimillionaire. Starting as vice president of marketing, she rose to become senior vice president for the consumer and e-commerce divisions. She is now on leave from the company to pursue the Senate seat.
Ms. Cantwell was considered a rising star when she was elected to the state legislature at the age of 28 and to Congress six years later, in 1992. But she lost re-election from a suburban Seattle district that happens to include the Microsoft campus.
Despite her millions, or perhaps because of them, Ms. Cantwell has taken pains in the campaign to portray her life as unassuming. Never married, she lives in a modest suburban home with her mother and their dog, Chuck, a Yorkshire terrier that the campaign describes as diabetic.
The supporting campaign roles by Seattle's cybertitans are intriguing. Mr. Glaser, who once worked at Microsoft, earned its wrath when he testified in Congress in 1998 that Microsoft had tried to cripple his technology with code written into a competing software program, a charge Microsoft stoutly denied.
Even so, it is unlikely that Ms. Cantwell, if she wins, will call herself "the Senator from RealNetworks" -- or poke her finger in Microsoft's eye.
She opposes the Justice Department's proposal to break up the corporation. And officials at both companies say that they agree on a wide range of legislative issues, like electronic privacy laws and expanded immigration visas for foreign workers, and that they have been partners on some business projects.
"Even before RealNetworks existed, Maria was an effective and outspoken advocate in Congress for Microsoft and the technology industry," said Alex Alben, RealNetworks' vice president for government affairs.
If Ms. Cantwell becomes a senator, said Vivek Varma, a Microsoft spokesman, "we'd work fine with her. We worked well with Maria when she was in Congress. But Slade has been a real leader on all the issues affecting Microsoft, and he's earned our strong support."
Mr. Gorton also says Washington State needs his seniority and influence in Congress -- a point Mr. Magnuson invoked before Mr. Gorton beat him in 1980.
Still, money is a big issue in this campaign -- both Ms. Cantwell's, and that of several Native American tribes, who have feuded with Mr. Gorton for years and vow to spend $2 million or more to defeat him.
Mr. Gorton said he had a "secret weapon" of thousands of grass-roots supporters who would help him win re-election, though Democrats, depicting him as a patron of corporate interests, scoff at the claim.
"When someone like Slade starts talking about his grass-roots appeal, you know he's in real trouble," said Cathy Allen, a Democratic political strategist in Seattle.
Republicans, meanwhile, said they were confident they could use Ms. Cantwell's largely self-financed campaign, and her short career in Congress, against her. Brett Bader, a Republican consultant here who, like Ms. Allen, is not directly involved in the race, said Ms. Cantwell had "showed up as a starry-eyed freshman and signed onto Clinton's agenda, and the voters in a moderate, swing district dumped her."
"There is only one reason she is given such a chance right now," he added. "It's simply her checkbook. And that's not enough to get her across the finish line."
Mr. Gorton has accused Ms. Cantwell of trying to buy the election, and his campaign offers a pie chart depicting how little money the Democrat is taking in from "Real People" as opposed to "Herself."
Ms. Cantwell shrugs off such criticism. "The public," she said, "would rather have me spend my own money than get my money from special interests."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Slade Gorton, left, talked with his chief of staff, Tony Williams, on Tuesday. The Republican is in a fierce race for a fourth term. (Susana Raab for The New York Times); Maria Cantwell, who celebrated her victory in Washington State's Democratic Senate primary on Tuesday, is using the millions of dollars she has earned as an executive for an Internet company to finance her campaign. (Betty Udesen/Seattle Times)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) BOEING CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); WOMEN (70%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); HISTORY (65%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; GORTON, SLADE (SEN); CANTWELL, MARIA MARIA CANTWELL (90%); BILL GATES (88%); GARY LOCKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



515 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Questions on Spending

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:

The New York State Democratic Committee began broadcasting this 30-second advertisement yesterday.
 
PRODUCER -- Axelrod & Associates
 
ON THE SCREEN -- As with several previous advertisements supporting Hillary Rodham Clinton, this one focuses on Representative Rick A. Lazio's tax proposal and his stand on Medicare. The spot opens with white words on a black screen that ask whether Mr. Lazio can be trusted. He is shown standing at a lectern with Newt Gingrich, then sitting next to Gov. George W. Bush of Texas at a meeting. This is the first time that a Democratic commercial has used an image of Mr. Bush in this Senate campaign. During both scenes, the narration criticizes Mr. Lazio's economic policies. The advertisement ends by repeating the two images of Mr. Lazio next to Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Bush. 

THE SCRIPT -- "Can we trust Rick Lazio to fight for us? He helped write the Gingrich budget slashing Medicare. Now Lazio's trying to hide the true cost of his trillion-dollar tax plan. Like the Bush plan, experts say Lazio's would eat up the surplus, leaving no money to pay off the debt and extend the life of Social Security and Medicare. Hillary's plan? Affordable tax cuts, to help families pay for college and long-term care, and to help small businesses create jobs. Tell Lazio he's not fighting for us. Not then. Not now."
 
ACCURACY -- This commercial, like several others produced by supporters of Mrs. Clinton, tries to hold Mr. Lazio responsible for supporting Mr. Gingrich's plan to slash $270 million from Medicare. But Mr. Lazio voted to cut the rate of growth of Medicare, not the actual budget, as his campaign has repeatedly pointed out. The advertisement also castigates Mr. Lazio's tax plans by saying the proposals would leave no surplus. In fact, those plans would leave several million dollars of surplus, his campaign aides say. Although Mr. Lazio initially said his plan would cost $775 billion over 10 years, people have pointed out that it would be closer to $1 trillion.

SCORECARD -- The first line in the commercial raises the question of trust, one that Mrs. Clinton's campaign has been trying to raise with Mr. Lazio. It takes a swipe at a Lazio advertisement saying he is "one of us." By associating Mr. Lazio with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gingrich, the spot seeks to project the image of conservative politicians whose policies could spell economic disaster for middle-class New Yorkers. EDWARD WONG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



516 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE ENERGY ISSUE;
Plan to Tap Oil Reserve Strikes Some Experts As Temporary Answer

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE and DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
When the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was created in the 1970's, it was seen as a defense against supply disruptions that threatened national security -- not as a political tool to manage price disruptions.
But now economists, oil traders, refiners and politicians are divided about whether current high prices and low supplies of petroleum constitute a new kind of crisis that should be addressed by tapping the reserve. And beyond the debate about intervening in the market, one big question looms: Would dumping a big supply of oil on the market work to lower prices? 
 In the market for crude oil, where prices are set on the limited quantities of oil sold in so-called spot markets, a decision to tap the reserve is likely to drive down the price of oil in the short term. Crude oil for November delivery closed yesterday at $34 a barrel, down $1.24 from the day before at the end of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Heating oil prices also dipped, but much less, largely on the prospect of a release from the reserve.
But it is unclear whether a move by the administration would have more than a temporary effect on prices. And it is doubtful whether the new supplies would reach the market soon enough to overcome potential shortages in heating oil that loom if the weather turns cold prematurely.
At the same time, other experts worry that tapping the oil from the reserve in response to higher prices would merely lessen its impact if a more serious supply disruption occurred.
"Using the reserve for price manipulation is dangerous business," said Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist with High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. "If they release enough of it, the price will go down. The problem is that you can't do this forever, and fairly soon you will want to rebuild the reserve."
What troubles policy makers and economists this fall are the low supplies of heating oil, as both the cold weather and the presidential vote approach. The Northeast consumes most of the heating oil in the country. But this year, inventories of heating oil in New England total only 6 million barrels, compared with 16.3 million barrels a year ago, according to the American Petroleum Institute.
Supplies proved inadequate when a cold snap struck in late January, causing heating oil prices to spike. Lower inventories of heating fuel this winter could leave the region even more vulnerable to price volatility and possible shortages. As a result of tight supplies, heating oil prices have jumped 70 percent over the last year.
Tapping the reserve "is really a short-term policy targeted at home heating oil," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a former chief economic adviser in the Clinton White House who is now the dean of the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley.
"It's not an attempt to change the overall market dynamics," said Ms. Tyson, who has been advising the Gore campaign on economic issues. "That's perfectly consistent with the formulation of the reserve."
Since last autumn, Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, has tried to convince the Clinton administration to use the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, arguing that the reluctance on the part of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to provide more crude called for the government to step in to halt spiraling prices. Although Mr. Schumer had proposed that 30 million barrels be released, he said he believed the Gore proposal was a fair first step, and more important, a sign that the administration may be closer to unlocking the oil.
"The administration is clearly concerned about prices," Mr. Schumer said. "So far, it is more of a price issue, but any kind of problem that created a disruption in supply would create real problems. We are definitely on the edge."
Stored in salt domes along the Gulf Coast, the 570-million-barrel petroleum reserve was established after the first Arab oil embargo in 1973-74 to shield the country against similarly severe breaks in supply. The only time it has been used was in 1991, during the Persian Gulf war that followed Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. At the time, the government wanted to sell about 30 million barrels but issued 17.3 million instead, because the bids it received from oil traders were too low. Oil prices, which had been climbing after Iraq invaded Kuwait, fell sharply on the news of the release.
If President Clinton authorized a release, getting more heating oil into the low stocks of the Northeast would take about 40 to 50 days, experts said. The petroleum reserve's office in New Orleans would review bids for the oil and ship it to buyers, all within 15 days. Then the oil would travel another week to two weeks to the Northeast and another 10 days would be required to refine it into heating oil.
Critics of tapping the reserve point out that a greater supply of crude may not help overcome the potential shortages. And even if prices fall in the spot market, consumers would not necessarily see much of an effect at the retail level.
Industry experts estimate that the price of as much as half the oil that is delivered responds to those fluctuations from daily trading, or the spot market. The remaining oil is priced based on long-term contracts, which provides a steady supply and protects buyers somewhat from the daily price fluctuations. But even those supplies are determined by formulas based on the spot prices. There is no fixed price contract for oil.
Heating oil stocks fell to perilously low levels in April, as a series of cuts in crude oil production by OPEC shrank the supply of oil to refiners. At the same time, demand for petroleum products has been high because of the robust economy.
Since the spring, refineries in the United States have been playing catch up to produce more heating oil and are now running at about 95 percent of their full capacity. Refineries are actually producing more heating oil now than they did a year ago, but it is not been enough to restore inventories.
As a result, more oil from the reserve may bolster crude inventories but do little to relieve the bottleneck at refineries.
"We're like every other refinery," said Bill Greehey, chief executive of Valero Energy Corporation, a major refiner in San Antonio. "We're running at 100 percent and maximizing our output of heating oil. These crude inventories won't do anything to create fuel oil. It just sounds good, sounds like a quick fix."
If the Clinton administration moves to issue oil from the reserve, most industry analysts expect it to be after next week's summit in Caracas, Venezuela, of leaders of the OPEC countries. Officials said that Saudi Arabia, the cartel's de facto leader, was aware that the White House might use the reserve and that its leaders approved of the move.
"The Saudis welcome some help from us," said one industry expert close to the Saudis. "They don't want this oil from their own back and they want some help with the price, because everyone thinks it's too high."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; LEONHARDT, DAVID; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



517 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
GORE ASKS RELEASE OF U.S.-STORED OIL TO STABILIZE PRICE

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Md., Sept. 21

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore said today that the White House should release a modest amount of oil from government stockpiles to try to stabilize oil prices, a move that Gov. George W. Bush immediately denounced as a political ploy that could endanger national security.
If Mr. Clinton acts on Mr. Gore's proposal to release at least five million barrels of oil -- about what the United States consumes every six to nine hours -- it would be the first time the reserve had been tapped since the Persian Gulf war. Though the amount proposed for release was small, analysts said it could bring down crude oil prices by sending a signal that the United States could be willing to follow up with larger interventions. 
 But energy analysts said it would take weeks and maybe months for any savings to flow to consumers, and it is unclear whether the move would have any more than a temporary impact. Page A18.
With fuel prices rising and the winter heating season approaching, both campaigns see energy prices as a potentially potent political issue. "Families need action now," Mr. Gore said, "and there are steps that we can take right now, before winter sets in, to make heating oil affordable and to bring gasoline prices down at the pump."
But Mr. Bush blamed the Clinton administration for the rising prices, saying, "We haven't had an energy policy in this country for some time." Page A18.
Mr. Gore's recommendation is a break with long-standing administration policy about utilizing the reserves, and it is a reversal of his own earlier recommendations, made last winter when prices were significantly lower than they are now. Mr. Clinton has been reluctant to tap into the reserves as well, noting that they were created to assure an oil supply in case of a major disruption, brought on by a war or an embargo, rather than as a method of counteracting price increases.
Nonetheless, administration officials broadly hinted today that Mr. Clinton would probably permit at least one "test release" of oil soon. Mr. Gore urged several such releases in his speech today.
"The thinking is that it may be worth determining how the market would react," one senior official said. Another official noted that when the idea was first floated at White House meetings last week, two of Mr. Gore's senior aides, including his national security adviser, Leon Fuerth, sat in the meetings. The White House apparently decided to let Mr. Gore propose the idea first, giving him public authorship of the plan.
Mr. Gore's aides have regularly tried to portray Mr. Bush, a former oil company executive, and his running mate, Dick Cheney, who recently ran a company that services the oil industry, as captive of oil interests. In recent days, Mr. Gore has been seeking ways to demonstrate his concern about rising prices.
But his campaign's search for a significant announcement ran headlong into a furious argument within the White House in recent days. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who Republicans assert did too little to head off price increases earlier in the year by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, argued for releasing 60 million barrels, or about a fifth of the total strategic reserve, administration officials said today.
That led to an angry retort from Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who wrote in a memorandum to Mr. Clinton that such a release would amount to a "substantial policy mistake" and would, at best have a "modest effect" on prices. A report on the memo was carried today in The Wall Street Journal.
Today, Mr. Summers issued a statement endorsing Mr. Gore's far more modest proposal, saying, "There are a number of approaches for prudent use of the strategic petroleum reserve, including those the vice president has proposed, which could be appropriate in current circumstances."
Mr. Gore went out of his way today to portray his proposal as a grand one that would have a broad, immediate effect. "We cannot just wait around," Mr. Gore said, 47 days before the presidential election, as he stood in front of oil storage tanks at a family-owned oil distribution business. "In the face of rising prices for gasoline and home-heating oil, I support oil releases from our national strategic petroleum reserve."
At a campaign appearance in Cleveland, Mr. Bush derided the initiative and suggested that Mr. Gore was ignoring advice from top officials of his own administration.
"The strategic reserve is an insurance policy meant for sudden disruption of oil supplies or for war," Mr. Bush said, adding that it "should not be used as an attempt to drive down oil prices right before an election."
While prices are up considerably -- the Energy Department estimates that home heating oil will cost 30 percent more this winter than it did last winter -- on a historical basis gasoline prices are far from their highest. The Energy Department notes that in the third week of June, the average cost of regular gas rose to $1.68 per gallon, before falling considerably in the middle of August. By comparison, at the height of the oil shortage of 1981, gasoline cost about $2.69 per gallon, once the price is adjusted for inflation and expressed in current dollars.
Even so, Mr. Gore has calculated that rising costs could hurt him in several swing states, which are heavy users of home heating oil.
In interviews today, administration officials and economists outside government said that it was hard to predict how a modest increase in the supply could affect the psychology of the oil markets. But Mr. Gore's hope is that the threat of tapping the strategic reserve would have much the same effect as the threat of a currency intervention by the Federal Reserve Bank: The mere suggestion of a future willingness to act can move prices.
In fact, when news of Mr. Gore's proposal reached the markets today, oil prices immediately dropped by $1.24, or 3.5 percent, to $34.20 a barrel in New York trading. Mr. Gore was vague today about exactly how much oil might be released under a system of "swaps," in which oil is essentially lent to oil companies in return for a commitment from them to refill the strategic reserve next spring. He said he advocated several of the 5-million-barrel swaps, until prices stabilized.
Although Mr. Gore's proposal is unlikely to bring consumer prices down before the election, President Clinton noted two days ago that there is "still plenty of time" to affect home heating oil prices. And that could be a potent issue in another election -- the one that pits Hillary Rodham Clinton against Rick Lazio for the New York Senate seat. Home heating oil is widely used in upstate New York.
One of the strongest arguments against releasing oil from the reserves was publicly articulated earlier this year by Mr. Gore himself.
Back then, as heating-oil prices rose, Mr. Gore said he was afraid that tapping into the reserve would prompt oil-producing countries to cut back on their production.
"All they would have to do is cut back a little bit on supply and they'd wipe out any impact from releasing oil from that reserve," Mr. Gore said in mid-February.
The Gore campaign said today that circumstances had become more urgent. "We're on the cusp of a real issue right now," said Chris Lehane, Mr. Gore's spokesman. "People have to buy this stuff and it's at a 10-year high today. It's gone up $10 a barrel over the last couple weeks. Those are very, very high prices and for middle-class families, for working families all over the country; those prices are being passed on to them, and they're having a difficult time affording that."
Mr. Gore used his speech today to return to his populist theme that oil companies are too powerful and are "profiteering" as prices rise.
"We should not be building our lives around a fuel source that is often distant, too often uncertain and too easily manipulated by foreign oil and big oil," he said, urging the development of cleaner, more reliable energy sources.
Mr. Gore's proposal today was part of a larger energy package that also calls for giving people up to $6,000 in tax credits to purchase more fuel-efficient cars. The Administration has proposed giving $4,000 in tax credits for the purchase of electric cars and $3,000 for hybrid cars, which use a combination of gas and electricity, at a total cost of $2 billion over five years. Mr. Gore is proposing a $6,000 credit for electric or fuel cell cars and $5,000 for hybrid cars.
 
In His Own Words
AL GORE
 
Remarks to employees yesterday at Burchoil in Hollywood, Md.:
"This summer I called for a federal investigation of concentration, non-competitiveness and pricing practices in the oil industry, and we're still awaiting the results of that inquiry. But this isn't rocket science, even though gasoline right now seems to be priced a lot like rocket fuel. We know what is going on here, and we have to end it. And I promise you this -- if I am president, I am going to stand up to big oil and demand fairer gasoline prices for families and an end to unfair profiteering.
We also have to press OPEC and big oil to act responsibly and we also need aggressive national action right now. In the face of rising prices for gasoline and home-heating oil, I support oil releases from our national strategic petroleum reserve. . . .
These short-term measures that I've described here are urgent and vital, but as I mentioned earlier, by themselves they are not enough. . . . I'm proposing an energy security and environment trust, a commitment to a more prosperous economy powered by cleaner, cheaper and more reliable energy for families."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flanked by Secret Service agents, Vice President Al Gore made a plea yesterday in Hollywood, Md., for a release of oil from the federal stockpile. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DESERT STORM (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



518 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Indian Office No Place for John Wayne

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
An illuminating moment in the life of Kevin Gover occurred one day recently on an airplane over the Midwest.
"Excuse me," said the little boy sitting next to him. "Are you a Native American?" 
 "Why, yes I am," replied Mr. Gover, an assistant secretary of the Interior Department in charge of the agency's Bureau of Indian Affairs and a member of the Pawnee tribe.
"Me too!" the little boy said, proudly revealing his Cherokee-Blackfoot heritage.
And then, Mr. Gover recalled, the boy busied himself drawing a pretty good likeness of the Cleveland Indians' logo, an image Mr. Gover detests as much as he does the name of the professional football team in the nation's capital, the Redskins.
Mr. Gover (rhymes with clover) talked about the encounter during a wide-ranging interview in his office on the fourth floor of the Interior Department building, a vast structure that houses part of a huge bureaucracy that once regarded American Indians as a problem.
Mr. Gover refused to dismiss the boy's preoccupation with the smiling, big-toothed baseball caricature as harmless. No, he said, it could damage the child's self-image, whether he knows it or not. Besides, he added, "It infects, and thereby affects people's attitudes toward Indians."
The Bureau of Indian Affairs, which is now largely run by Indians for Indians, is seldom counted among the high-profile agencies of the government. But Mr. Gover made news recently when he used a celebration of the bureau's 175th anniversary to apologize for the past.
"This agency set out to destroy all things Indian," he said at the Sept. 8 celebration. "The legacy of these misdeeds haunts us. . . . Our hearts break." He apologized on behalf of the bureau for the forced relocation of Indians it once ran as part of the old War Department and for decades of broken treaties and promises.
The apology produced a flurry of letters and e-mail messages, most friendly but a few laced with vitriol that could politely be called reflections of white pride.
With his days in government winding down after three years in charge of Indian affairs, Mr. Gover looks forward to using his "one marketable skill," as he put it. He is a lawyer and will practice in Washington, devoting much of his time to issues related to Indians.
Only a few decades ago, he said, all the Indians who were lawyers could have sat around a big conference table with plenty of room for coffee cups and note pads. Now, he said, more than 1,000 Indians practice law.
Mr. Gover, 45, is one of three children born to working-class parents in Lawton, Okla. His mother and father were civilian employees at Fort Sill (where Geronimo was once held captive), and Mr. Gover sensed almost as soon as he could walk that he was not like other Americans.
"There were the John Wayne movies," he said. "You know, a white man fires a shot and six Indians fall off their horses. . . ."
When Kevin Gover was 15, a social worker who knew his father changed his life. With federal scholarship aid, he went to a prep school in New Hampshire, then to Princeton University, where he did not exactly thrive. He did not belong to one of the university's elite eating clubs, which dominate student social life and help define its hierarchy. "I'm past the point of hating the eating clubs," Mr. Gover said.
Well, perhaps not entirely. "I belonged to the Jewish eating club," he said. "They were nonselective."
He befriended some black students, honed his credentials as "an angry young man," joined protests to persuade Princeton to divest itself of investments in South Africa during the apartheid era and earned a degree in public and international affairs. Later, he graduated from the University of New Mexico Law School, served as a clerk for a federal judge and practiced law in Washington and Albuquerque. He is married with two children.
Mr. Gover said he was pleased with the growing political power of Indians and, of course, with their economic gains. "There are more and more people like me," he said.
Just down the hall from his office, near tribal flags from across the country, are two murals from the Depression era. One shows a dashing cavalry officer talking man-to-man to a group of Indians. Another shows a white man patiently showing Indians how to plant vegetables.
"At first, I wanted to have them painted over," he said half-jokingly. He decided to let them stay, as a reminder.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the two weeks since Kevin Gover, head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, apologized on behalf of the bureau for its treatment of Indians, he has received a flurry of responses, most supportive but a few heatedly opposed. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AFFAIRS, BUREAU OF CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIAN AFFAIRS, BUREAU OF CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BASEBALL (75%); LAWYERS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); RELOCATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; GOVER, KEVIN (ASST SEC) JOHN WAYNE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



519 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2342 words

HEADLINE: ABSENCE OF EXECUTIONS: A special report.;
States With No Death Penalty Share Lower Homicide Rates

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER and FORD FESSENDEN 

 BODY:
The dozen states that have chosen not to enact the death penalty since the Supreme Court ruled in 1976 that it was constitutionally permissible have not had higher homicide rates than states with the death penalty, government statistics and a new survey by The New York Times show.
Indeed, 10 of the 12 states without capital punishment have homicide rates below the national average, Federal Bureau of Investigation data shows, while half the states with the death penalty have homicide rates above the national average. In a state-by-state analysis, The Times found that during the last 20 years, the homicide rate in states with the death penalty has been 48 percent to 101 percent higher than in states without the death penalty. 
 The study by The Times also found that homicide rates had risen and fallen along roughly symmetrical paths in the states with and without the death penalty, suggesting to many experts that the threat of the death penalty rarely deters criminals.
"It is difficult to make the case for any deterrent effect from these numbers," said Steven Messner, a criminologist at the State University of New York at Albany, who reviewed the analysis by The Times. "Whatever the factors are that affect change in homicide rates, they don't seem to operate differently based on the presence or absence of the death penalty in a state."
That is one of the arguments most frequently made against capital punishment in states without the death penalty -- that and the assertion that it is difficult to mete out fairly. Opponents also maintain that it is too expensive to prosecute and that life without parole is a more efficient form of punishment.
Prosecutors and officials in states that have the death penalty are as passionate about the issue as their counterparts in states that do not have capital punishment. While they recognize that it is difficult to make the case for deterrence, they contend that there are powerful reasons to carry out executions. Rehabilitation is ineffective, they argue, and capital punishment is often the only penalty that matches the horrific nature of some crimes. Furthermore, they say, society has a right to retribution and the finality of an execution can bring closure for victims' families.
Polls show that these views are shared by a large number of Americans. And, certainly, most states have death penalty statutes. Twelve states have chosen otherwise, but their experiences have been largely overlooked in recent discussions about capital punishment.
"I think Michigan made a wise decision 150 years ago," said the state's governor, John Engler, a Republican. Michigan abolished the death penalty in 1846 and has resisted attempts to reinstate it. "We're pretty proud of the fact that we don't have the death penalty," Governor Engler said, adding that he opposed the death penalty on moral and pragmatic grounds.
Governor Engler said he was not swayed by polls that showed 60 percent of Michigan residents favored the death penalty. He said 100 percent would like not to pay taxes.
In addition to Michigan, and its Midwestern neighbors Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota and Wisconsin, the states without the death penalty are Alaska, Hawaii, West Virginia, Rhode Island, Vermont, Maine and Massachusetts, where an effort to reinstate it was defeated last year.
No single factor explains why these states have chosen not to impose capital punishment. Culture and religion play a role, as well as political vagaries in each state. In West Virginia, for instance, the state's largest newspaper, The Charleston Gazette, supported a drive to abolish the death penalty there in 1965. Repeated efforts to reinstate the death penalty have been rebuffed by the legislature.
The arguments for and against the death penalty have not changed much. At Michigan's constitutional convention in 1961, the delegates heard arguments that the death penalty was not a deterrent, that those executed were usually the poor and disadvantaged, and that innocent people had been sentenced to death.
"The same arguments are being made today," said Eugene G. Wanger, who had introduced the language to enshrine a ban on capital punishment in Michigan's constitution at that convention. The delegates overwhelmingly adopted the ban, 141 to 3. Mr. Wanger said two-thirds of the delegates were Republicans, like himself, and most were conservative. Last year, a former state police officer introduced legislation to reinstate the death penalty. He did not even get the support of the state police association, and the legislation died.
In Minnesota, which abolished capital punishment in 1911, 60 percent of the residents support the death penalty, said Susan Gaertner, a career prosecutor in St. Paul and the elected county attorney there since 1994. But public sentiment had not translated into legislative action, Ms. Gaertner said. "The public policy makers in Minnesota think the death penalty is not efficient, it is not a deterrent, it is a divisive form of punishment that we simply don't need," she said.
In Honolulu, the prosecuting attorney, Peter Carlisle, said he had changed his views about capital punishment, becoming an opponent, after looking at the crime statistics and finding a correlation between declines in general crimes and in the homicide rates. "When the smaller crimes go down -- the quality of life crimes -- then the murder rate goes down," Mr. Carlisle said.
Therefore, he said, it was preferable to spend the resources available to him prosecuting these general crimes. Prosecuting a capital case is "extremely expensive," he said.
By the very nature of the gravity of the case, defense lawyers and prosecutors spend far more time on a capital case than a noncapital one. It takes longer to pick a jury, longer for the state to present its case and longer for the defense to put on its witnesses. There are also considerably greater expenses for expert witnesses, including psychologists and, these days, DNA experts. Then come the defendant's appeals, which can be considerable, but are not the biggest cost of the case, prosecutors say.
Mr. Carlisle said his views on the death penalty had not been affected by the case of Bryan K. Uyesugi, a Xerox copy machine repairman who gunned down seven co-workers last November in the worst mass murder in Hawaii's history. Mr. Uyesugi was convicted in June and is serving life without chance of parole.
Mr. Carlisle has doubts about whether the death penalty is a deterrent. "We haven't had the death penalty, but we have one of the lowest murder rates in the country," he said. The F.B.I.'s statistics for 1998, the last year for which the data is available, showed Hawaii's homicide rate was the fifth-lowest.
The homicide rate in North Dakota, which does not have the death penalty, was lower than the homicide rate in South Dakota, which does have it, according to F.B.I. statistics for 1998. Massachusetts, which abolished capital punishment in 1984, has a lower rate than Connecticut, which has six people on death row; the homicide rate in West Virginia is 30 percent below that of Virginia, which has one of the highest execution rates in the country.
Other factors affect homicide rates, of course, including unemployment and demographics, as well as the amount of money spent on police, prosecutors and prisons.
But the analysis by The Times found that the demographic profile of states with the death penalty is not far different from that of states without it. The poverty rate in states with the death penalty, as a whole, was 13.4 percent in 1990, compared with 11.4 percent in states without the death penalty.
Mr. Carlisle's predecessor in Honolulu, Keith M. Kaneshiro, agrees with him about deterrence. "I don't think there's a proven study that says it's a deterrent," Mr. Kaneshiro said. Still, he said, he believed that execution was warranted for some crimes, like a contract killing or the slaying of a police officer. Twice while he was prosecuting attorney, Mr. Kaneshiro got a legislator to introduce a limited death penalty bill, but, he said, they went nowhere.
In general, Mr. Kaneshiro said, Hawaiians fear that the death penalty would be given disproportionately to racial minorities and the poor.
In Milwaukee, the district attorney for the last 32 years, E. Michael McCann, shares the view that the death penalty is applied unfairly to minorities. "It is rare that a wealthy white man gets executed, if it happens at all," Mr. McCann said.
Those who "have labored long in the criminal justice system know, supported by a variety of studies and extensive personal experience, that blacks get the harsher hand in criminal justice and particularly in capital punishment cases," Mr. McCann wrote in "Opposing Capital Punishment: A Prosecutor's Perspective," published in the Marquette Law Review in 1996. Forty-three percent of the people on death row across the country are African-Americans, according to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund.
The death penalty also has been employed much more often when the victim was white -- 82 percent of the victims of death row inmates were white, while only 50 percent of all homicide victims were white.
Supporters of capital punishment who say that executions are justified by the heinous nature of some crimes often cite the case of Jeffrey L. Dahmer, the serial killer who murdered and dismembered at least 17 boys and men, and ate flesh from at least one of his victims.
Mr. McCann prosecuted Mr. Dahmer, but the case did not dissuade him from his convictions on the death penalty. "To participate in the killing of another human being, it diminishes the respect for life. Period," Mr. McCann said. He added, "Although I am a district attorney, I have a gut suspicion of the state wielding the power of the death over anybody."
In Detroit, John O'Hair, the district attorney, similarly ponders the role of the state when looking at the death penalty.
Borrowing from Justice Louis E. Brandeis, Mr. O'Hair said: "Government is a teacher, for good or for bad, but government should set the example. I do not believe that government engaging in violence or retribution is the right example. You don't solve violence by committing violence."
Detroit has one of the highest homicide rates in the United States -- five times more than New York in 1998 -- but Mr. O'Hair said bringing back the death penalty is not the answer.
"I do not think the death penalty is a deterrent of any consequence in preventing murders," said Mr. O'Hair, who has been a prosecutor and judge for 30 years. Most homicides, he said, are "impulsive actions, crimes of passion," in which the killers do not consider the consequences of what they are doing.
Nor, apparently, do the people of Detroit see the death penalty as a way of cutting crime. Only 45 percent of Detroit residents favored capital punishment, a poll by EPIC/MRA, a polling organization in Lansing, Mich., found last year; in Michigan over all, 59 percent favored executions, which is roughly the level of support for the death penalty nationally.
To illustrate the point that killers rarely considered the consequences of their actions, a prosecutor in Des Moines, John Sarcone, described the case of four people who murdered two elderly women. They killed one in Iowa, but drove the other one across the border to Missouri, a state that has the death penalty.
Mr. Sarcone said Iowa prosecutors were divided on the death penalty, and legislation to reinstate it was rejected by the Republican-controlled legislature in 1997. The big issue was cost, he said.
Last year in Michigan, Larry Julian, a Republican from a rural district, introduced legislation that would put the death penalty option to a referendum.
But Mr. Julian, a retired state police officer, had almost no political support for the bill, not even from the Michigan State Troopers Association, he said, and the bill died without a full vote. The Catholic Church lobbied against it.
State officials in Michigan are generally satisfied with the current law. "Our policies in Michigan have worked without the death penalty," said Matthew Davis, spokesman for the Michigan Department of Corrections. "Instituting it now may not be the most effective use of people's money."
Today in Michigan, 2,572 inmates are serving sentences of life without parole, and they tend to cause fewer problems than the general prison population, Mr. Davis said.
They are generally quieter, not as insolent, more likely to obey the rules and less likely to try to escape, he said. Their motivation is quite clear, he said: to get into a lower security classification. When they come in, they are locked up 23 hours a day, 7 days a week, and fed through a small hole in the door. After a long period of good behavior, they can live in a larger cell, which is part of a larger, brighter room, eat with 250 other prisoners, and watch television.
One thing they cannot look forward to is getting out. In Michigan, life without parole means you stay in prison your entire natural life, not that you get out after 30 or 40 years, Mr. Davis said.
In many states, when life without parole is an option the public's support for the death penalty drops sharply. "The fact that we have life without parole takes a lot of impetus from people who would like to see the death penalty," said Ms. Gaertner, the chief prosecutor in St. Paul.
In most states with the death penalty, life without parole is not an option for juries. In Texas, prosecutors have successfully lobbied against legislation that would give juries the option of life without parole instead of the death penalty.
Mr. Davis said a desire "to extract a pound of flesh" was behind many of the arguments for capital punishment. "But that pound of flesh comes at a higher price than a lifetime of incarceration."
Mr. O'Hair, the Detroit prosecutor said, "If you're after retribution, vengeance, life in prison without parole is about as punitive as you can get."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: E. Michael McCann of Milwaukee County opposes executions even after prosecuting Jeffrey L. Dahmer. (The New York Times); John O'Hair, Detroit's district attorney, opposes the death penalty despite the city's high homicide rate. (Nico Toutenhoofd for The New York Times)(pg. A23)
 
Graph/Chart: "The Death Penalty and Homicide Rates"
Homicide rates in states with the death penalty are higher than in those without, and have shown similar up-and-down trends over the years, offering little support to the contention that capital punishment is a deterrent.
 
Graph tracks Homicide rate for states with and without the death penalty since 1970.
 
HOMICIDE RATES
per 100,000 in 1998
 
HIGHEST
Louisiana -- 12.8
Mississippi -- 11.4
New Mexico -- 10.9
Maryland -- 10.0
Nevada -- 9.7
 
LOWEST
Massachusetts -- 2.0
Iowa -- 1.9
New Hampshire -- 1.5
South Dakota -- 1.4
North Dakota -- 1.1
 
*Does not include New York or Kansas, which adopted the death penalty in the 1990's.
 
(Sources: Analysis by The New York Times (homicide rates); NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund (death row population); National Center for Health Statistics and Census Bureau (state homicide rates))(pg. A23)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; STATES (US) CRIME RATES (96%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (94%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; FESSENDEN, FORD JOHN ENGLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



520 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Oil for the Winter

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore proposed a sensible policy yesterday to mitigate soaring gasoline prices and anxiety in the Northeast about the cost of home heating fuels. Coming seven weeks before elections, Mr. Gore's proposal is, as the Bush campaign charges, patently political. But Gov. George W. Bush offers consumers little more than bromides.
Crude oil prices have risen about 65 percent over the past year, to almost $40 a barrel. Ominously, stocks of the fuels used to heat homes primarily in the Northeast are down almost 20 percent over the past year. The danger is that dwindling reserves will trigger hoarding and speculation, driving prices even higher. Behind the problem lies the decision by oil exporting nations to keep output down even as worldwide demand rises in the wake of economic recovery in Asia and Europe. 
 The United States cannot undo OPEC's decisions. But it can mitigate temporary price spikes by carefully exploiting the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which holds almost 600 million barrels of crude oil in salt domes in Texas and Louisiana.
Mr. Gore proposes to open the reserve for "swaps," a procedure that this page has already endorsed. The idea is to permit companies to remove oil from the reserve and sell it at current prices. That could put modest downward pressure on prices. But the companies would be required to return not only all the oil they remove but some extra amount, at a fixed date in the future. The reserve would thus be left larger than before the swaps took place. The only flaw in Mr. Gore's plan is timidity. He calls initially for withdrawals of only five million barrels. With swaps, the draw should be as large as needed to stabilize prices with no threat to long-term reserves.
Mr. Gore also called on Congress to create a permanent reserve for home heating oil in the Northeast, a sensible long-term buffer for a vulnerable area. He proposed early release of money for a program that subsidizes the purchase of home heating oil, propane or natural gas by poor families.
Mr. Bush opposes tapping the reserve. Instead he urges an energy policy that would promote oil exploration at locations including environmentally vulnerable areas of Alaska. He also proposes increased refining capacity and development of more hydroelectric power. Even if environmental risks could be eliminated, the proposal would provide no relief anytime soon. Mr. Gore's plan does. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; HEATING OIL; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); PROPANE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



521 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
KEYCORP WILL CUT 2,300 JOBS IN A REVAMPING

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The Midwest regional banking company KeyCorp said yesterday that it would cut 2,300 jobs, or about 10 percent of its work force, and take $198 million in charges in the final phase of a restructuring intended to increase profits. The Cleveland-based bank, which has about $85 billion in assets, is the latest regional bank to cut staff members in an effort to save money and spur revenue growth. A string of interest rate increases has put pressure on bank profit margins. KeyCorp's shares fell 13 cents, to $23.19. KeyCorp expects to save $360 million annually when the revamping is in place by 2002. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (73%); 

COMPANY: KEYCORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



522 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
FANNIE MAE AND CITIMORTGAGE BEGIN HOME LOAN PROGRAM

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Fannie Mae and Citigroup's CitiMortgage Inc. started a five-year, $1.4 billion affordable mortgage program for the Washington and the Baltimore metropolitan areas yesterday. The program will offer loans with low down payments and flexible payment options to the area's low- and moderate-income households. CitiMortgage committed itself to originate and Fannie Mae made a commitment to buy at least $1.4 billion in low-cost loans. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FANNIE MAE; CITIMORTGAGE INC FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); CITIMORTGAGE INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FANNIE MAE; CITIMORTGAGE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



523 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton and Lazio Disagree on Upstate Economy

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton turned her attention back to upstate New York today, flying here to attack Representative Rick A. Lazio for asserting that the region's beleaguered economy had "turned a corner." Mrs. Clinton said that Mr. Lazio's remark demonstrated that he was "out of touch" with a part of New York that should be the foundation of his political base.
Mrs. Clinton returned to the site of last week's Senate debate to rebut, a week later, Mr. Lazio's sunny characterization of the economy here. Mr. Lazio's statement has stirred concern among his Republican supporters in this part of the state, and Mrs. Clinton's aides said she would use it as part of her effort, unusually aggressive for a Democrat, to win support in upstate New York. 
 To that end, Mrs. Clinton gave a 27-minute speech to a Rotary Club luncheon today, reprising some of her economic development proposals while asserting that Mr. Lazio's had shown no concern with the condition of the economy.
"My opponent has said that upstate has already turned the corner, and I can only conclude that he hasn't seen what I've seen, or talked with the people that I've talked to," Mrs. Clinton said.
"I'm going to make improving the upstate economy my personal commitment."
At a news conference afterward, Mrs. Clinton added: "I don't think he has a plan for upstate. And I think that is regrettable, and it's a real oversight on his part. To me, his denial of there being a problem demonstrates how out of touch he is with upstate."
At the debate, Mr. Lazio said: "I do believe that the upstate economy here has turned the corner. I think my opponent would like people to believe that upstate is a vast economic wasteland. It is not. As a matter of fact, there's been great progress."
The Republican candidate, campaigning at a windows manufacturing plant in Johnstown today, said "there is much more work to do" to improve the economy.
He added, "Having said that, compared to where the upstate economy was in the late 80's and early 90's, which were years of high taxes, job loss, factories moving out of the state, I believe the upstate economy has turned the corner."
A spokesman, Bryan Flood, said, "Mrs. Clinton would like to engage in a monthlong argument over whether the glass is half empty or half full, and whether the upstate is mostly cloudy and partly sunny.
"Clearly, she's trying to detract from the fact that she has no real plan to create jobs, despite a $4 trillion surplus."
The question of the upstate economy has put Mr. Lazio in a difficult position because of his close allegiance with Gov. George E. Pataki, his biggest political ally.
Any criticism that Mr. Lazio might offer of the economy could well be seized by Democrats as an attack on Mr. Pataki's stewardship and could anger Mr. Pataki and his political advisers. The governor is up for re-election in 2002, and his aides say that as of now, he is likely to seek re-election.
Although much of the news coverage of the debate, particularly downstate, has focused on Mr. Lazio's challenge to Mrs. Clinton that she sign a pledge agreeing to a ban on soft money, the candidate's position on the economy has drawn considerable attention in upstate newspapers.
When Mr. Lazio first made the comment at the debate, one of the panelists, Bob McCarthy, the political reporter for The Buffalo News, reacted with surprise, saying, "How do you address the fact that 45,000 people have left Erie County in the past 10 years?"
And on Tuesday, in a story in The Buffalo News, Joel A. Giambra, the Erie County executive and a Republican, offered a decidedly less cheery view of the economic state of affairs.
"Yes, we're starting to see the end of the bottoming out and the beginning of some hopeful signs, but we're not out of the woods," he told the newspaper. "What's happened are not laurels to rest on."
Since the debate, Mr. Lazio has campaigned heavily in upstate New York, talking about his tax cut plan and visiting parts of New York that highlight economic development.
"I believe we have a plan for the upstate economy," Mr. Lazio said on Tuesday in Rochester, where he visited the Rochester Institute of Technology. "It focuses on lowering taxes, addressing broad-band access, job creation in rural areas."
The issue of the upstate economy is not an entirely easy matter for Mrs. Clinton to raise either, because, aides said, she needs to avoid coming across as the outsider putting down a troubled part of New York.
To that end, Mrs. Clinton was given some political cover at her speech today by the Democratic mayor of Buffalo, Anthony Masiello. In introducing Mrs. Clinton, he said that Mr. Lazio's statement showed a "profound misunderstanding of upstate New York" but added that he believed "we are on the cusp of an economic revival."
The first lady offered a string of statistics intended to rebut an absent Mr. Lazio. (Organizers of the luncheon said that he was invited to attend as well but declined.)
Mrs. Clinton reiterated her call for tax credits for job creation, job training centers and grants to encourage high-tech development.
"There are very big differences between my opponent and myself," she said. "I believe upstate New York needs targeted economic help to catch up with the rest of the state and the nation, and my opponent believes that no such special help is called for."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rick A. Lazio said at a window factory in Johnstown, N.Y., that there was more work to do to improve the upstate economy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY); JOHNSTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%); DISMISSALS (60%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



524 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 29; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Knickerbocker's Knickknacks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
THE Met's "Art and the Empire City" is what Cecil B. De Mille would have come up with if he were making an epic about "Antiques Roadshow."
(With Matt Damon and Ben Affleck cast as Leigh and Leslie Keno, television's furniture-dealing brothers: "So, Mr. de Montebello, any guess about a price at auction on your ebonized mahogany, gilded secretary-bookcase with the brass ornaments and glass doors? You shouldn't have replaced the curtains on the doors, but considering what you paid in 1960, would you be surprised to hear half a million dollars?") 
 Gigantic, amusing, only marginally an art exhibition, this show, which is uncharacteristic of the Met, is really an ostentatious illustrated history lesson via hundreds of pieces of old crockery, silverware, etchings, mother-of-pearl folding fans, paintings, daguerreotypes, rosewood fire screens with flower decorations in needlepoint and other curious objects made, sold or displayed in the city or that otherwise passed through between 1825 and 1861.
An event custom-designed for our own acquisitive age, it's certainly the only time that a 19th-century brown ceramic water cooler and a six-sided pitcher with pictures of the presidential candidate William Henry Harrison on it have been presented like the treasures of Pharaoh's palace in "The Ten Commandments."
The point is that during the antebellum years New York began to become, well, New York, America's megalopolis and an international crossroads. The Erie Canal was finished, the plan to grid the streets all over Manhattan was under way, Central Park was mapped out, and the city (physically, ethnically, culturally, commercially) started to resemble what it is now.
New Yorkers, real estate-obsessed, will no doubt derive particular pleasure perusing the 1836 topographical map at the very start of the exhibition to see the hills and streams that used to be where their peanut-size apartments are today. Manhattan was being flattened then to make way for the new grid, churchyards demolished, waterways blocked, old streets plowed up and replaced along with the buildings lining them. Photographs of the city show Fifth Avenue as still a partly empty stretch of separate houses receding toward infinity, Union Square as cobblestoned and without anyone in it except for a few people posing before a brand new statue of George Washington.
These pictures exist with etchings and other prints like Thomas Benecke's view outside P. T. Barnum's museum: a snowy mess of horses and pedestrians in little bonnets and top hats, conforming more to popular accounts of the city as a vast scrum, a "river deep and wide of live, perspiring humanity," as one diarist at the time put it, so dense that somebody even proposed erecting a glass-paved mezzanine above the sidewalk to relieve the crowding.
We hold these two visions in mind, the city incomplete and the city overrun, veering toward chaos. They still pretty much define New York. Photographers like Victor Prevost, who arrived in America in 1848 from France, specialized in views that stressed the aspect of instability and incompleteness. He showed the city as a place always unmaking what it had just made, and this idea as much as any other became embedded in the civic psyche: New York as a work in progress. The city that never sleeps.
Prevost's work was comparatively obscure, but photographers like Charles DeForest Fredericks, through his commercial views of New York, and Mathew Brady, through his portraits, significantly affected the city in the antebellum years. According to one account 200 photo studios had opened in New York by 1858, producing pictures that among other things spurred the demand for illustrated newspapers and magazines, paving the way for New York to become the country's media Goliath. Photographs helped Olmsted and Vaux sell their plan for Central Park, providing "before" shots to contrast with the paintings they had commissioned to show what the site would look like after their work was finished.
Photography also dovetailed with the new concept of the city as spectacle, as an endless producer of exceptional, theatrical images, a shifting who's who of people and things. Not coincidentally the most memorable pictures in the exhibition include daguerreotypes, like the ones of Walt Whitman, Barnum and Samuel F. B. Morse, and other famous photographs, like Brady's carte-de-visite of Lincoln. Subject and medium combine to encapsulate the era.
In 1825 the city's population topped 125,000. By 1860 it had nearly reached 815,000. At that point just under half of New Yorkers were foreign born, most immigrants having arrived after 1845. Nearly one-third of the city was Irish, 15 percent German; only 1.5 percent were blacks, down from 10 percent in 1820. "The great phenomenon of the age is the growth of great cities," a writer in Putnam's Monthly stated in 1855. And New York "is greater than Paris or Constantinople, and will evidently be hereafter (in the 20th century, if not sooner) greater than London."
All this naturally meant several things: a housing crunch, ethnic tensions, a demand for amusements, jails, stores, parks, reservoirs, museums: everything that goes along with a metropolis.
And you can see in the show the city's aspiration to look important: in the design for buildings like the United States Customs House, the Merchants' Exchange, fancy rows like La Grange Terrace and Lafayette Place (now Astor Place) and in a whole range of opulent furniture, often parroting Europe, by designers like Duncan Phyfe and Gustave Herter. The enormous Egyptian-style reservoir on the site of what is now the New York Public Library at 42nd Street was probably the most extravagant declaration of civic magnitude.
But the test of a great city was not just how big it was or how grand its architecture looked. The real test had to do with urbanity, a quality of mind that antebellum New York, it seems, was trying desperately to acquire.
This is the beauty part of the exhibition. It presents paintings by Thomas Cole, John Trumbull, Asher B. Durand and Morse (his big portrait of Lafayette with the busts of Franklin and Washington), and it documents places like the National Academy of Design and the Crystal Palace (on the site of what is now Bryant Park), which began to institutionalize culture in New York.
The Crystal Palace was an immense glass exhibition hall, modeled after London's Crystal Palace. Until it burned down in 1858, it served as a combination of museum and department store, a vast public attraction mixing edification with consumption. Disastrously. It was a financial flop. Even Barnum, who briefly took it over, couldn't make it work. But it was a perfect symbol of antebellum New York's gigantic ambition and conflicted personality.
New York was defined as increasingly urbane by the presence of the National Academy or the new art galleries, like Goupil's and the Dusseldorf, which were importing European paintings and sculptures (some of them in the show). But it was defined just as much on the low end by proliferating freak shows, fireworks displays, minstrel theaters and penny entertainments.
New Yorkers could pay a quarter to visit stuffy establishments like Thomas Jefferson Bryan's Gallery of Christian Art on Broadway at 13th Street, where the admission charge was meant to preserve "that quiet and elegant taste," as one writer at the time put it, or they could fork over the same money (children half-price) at a place called the New York Society Library to see the famed Aztec Children. ("Absolutely a New and Unique Race of Mankind, a most Extraordinary and Inexplicable Phenomena, such as never have been seen by Civilized Nations," promised the advertisement.)
Moralists railed of course. But most New Yorkers just ignored the distinction between high and low. Commercial museums still mixed art with stuffed animals and bearded women. A. T. Stewart's, the dry goods palace that opened at Broadway and Chambers Street in 1823, was in many ways the most spectacular and art-filled place in the city. Free of charge, New Yorkers could ogle luxury objects from around the world that they couldn't see anywhere else. Art and commerce linked, a condition still shaping the city's culture.
Dell Upton, an architectural historian, summing up in the show's catalog Stewart's history and other local phenomena, stresses the particular significance of the plan for a grid of streets. It was, he writes, "the embodiment of an economically informed vision of urban society" because it "envisioned commerce as an all-encompassing, impersonal, systematic exchange of commodities rather than, as it had traditionally been regarded (and still was by many small traders), a series of discrete, highly personal, morally tinged relationships."
In other words, the grid was unsentimental, open-ended, utilitarian. And democratic. It was a gigantic blank sheet on which the city could draw its future.
Which is what happened during the years covered by the show. Much of the city was sketched in. But with plenty still left up for grabs, a heroic leap of faith in New York's capacity to accommodate change.
Come to think of it, epic, too.
 
"Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825-1861" is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Jan. 7.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Weekend on Sept. 22 with a review of "Art and the Empire City," at the Metropolitan Museum, included the museum's erroneous reference to the direction of view in a photograph of Fifth Avenue taken around 1855. The view was to the north.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A photograph of Fifth Avenue, looking south around 1855, and below, Samuel F. B. Morse's portrait of Lafayette (1825-26), at the Met. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E29); Above, a detail from an 1855 lithograph, "Sleighing in New York"; left, a presentation pitcher (1854-56) for the governor of New York; and below, a daguerreotype of of Walt Whitman (circa 1854), all at the Metropolitan. (Photographs from Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; HISTORY; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES EXHIBITIONS (88%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (51%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL MATT DAMON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000



525 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Bishop Works to Bridge Faiths in the Cause of Peace

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
CONVERSION is an individual experience, but those who have undergone it share in a basic story of how something unexpected worked a great change in their lives, either on the spot or over time.
For William E. Swing, the bishop of California of the Episcopal Church, it started with a telephone call in 1993 from a United Nations official, an incident that led him into the highly ambitious mission of trying to create a global organization in which religious groups might work together for peace. 
 His caller, the bishop said, merely wanted his help in arranging an interfaith service for United Nations delegates at Grace Cathedral, the elegant neo-Gothic building atop San Francisco's Nob Hill. It was an event to commemorate the United Nations' 50th anniversary in 1995.
But the request got him thinking. Hours later, Bishop Swing lay in bed reflecting on the fact that while nations had a forum to discuss cooperation, religious faiths had no such thing.
"There were 40 wars going on in the world that night," Bishop Swing said in an interview, "most of them fueled -- not caused, but fueled -- by religion."
When he rose the next morning, Bishop Swing said, he decided he would dedicate himself to trying to create such a forum.
"It was a conversion, absolutely," he said. "It was a conversion to how we're going to have to live together."
Seven years later, he is leading a project called the United Religions Initiative. It is a work in progress but recently passed a symbolic milestone, bringing together 300 people from around the world who have become involved to sign its charter. The document pledges participants to building bridges among faith groups, respecting one another's religious differences, organizing and making decisions locally and agreeing that no one in the effort will be subjected to religious proselytizing.
The signing ceremony, in June, was the first in an unusual series of events that have cast a spotlight on how people in different faiths are to relate to one another, an ever more pressing issue in a world made smaller by advances in mass communications.
In August, 10,000 Protestant evangelists met in Amsterdam under the auspices of the Rev. Billy Graham's organization and issued a declaration that while evangelists must be respectful of other believers, they are obliged to share the Gospel so that those others may hear and convert. In September, the Vatican released its own statement, saying the Christian message that salvation comes only through Jesus is most fully expressed in the Roman Catholic Church, so that Catholic participation in interfaith discussions should consider conversion its ultimate aim.
On a different note, hundreds of men and women from religious groups worldwide met in New York in late August for the Millennium Summit of Religious and Spiritual Leaders, pledging to work for peace, a reduction in poverty and the protection of the environment.
"Everybody," said Bishop Swing, "is wrestling at some level with the same question."
The idea of having a global forum for religious groups has been around for a century but has come up against major complicating factors -- questions of authority, how to deal with conflicting ideas about ultimate truth and what to do about proselytism.
Four years ago, Bishop Swing traveled around the world, seeking ideas on how to proceed from leaders in Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism. The best advice, he said, came from the Swiss Catholic theologian Hans Kung, who pressed him to define his objectives more clearly and also warned him against focusing on the people at the top. The heads of organizations would come to a conference, give a speech and then depart with their entourages -- leaving Bishop Swing with what, Father Kung asked?
Since then, the bishop and his fellow organizers have focused on enlisting people at the local level, women and men, and being open to those from tribal groups and broad spiritual perspectives, as well as the major faiths.
The result is decentralized, about 100 of what Bishop Swing calls "cooperation circles," autonomous, interfaith groups around the globe. In 72 hours that overlapped Jan. 1, the groups prayed, marched and did social service projects, all on behalf of peace. The next step, he said, is to create a "global council" to support them, by June 2001.
THE bishop, 64 and married with two adult children, has presided since 1979 over a jurisdiction in the Episcopal Church that encompasses five counties around San Francisco Bay, from Napa Valley to Silicon Valley, a region of vast economic, ethnic and religious diversity.
In the interview, he spoke again of his meeting with Father Kung, whom he paraphrased as saying there would never be peace among nations without peace among religions, and there would be no peace among religions without dialogue.
"Everybody gets that," Bishop Swing said. "When I give a talk, in any city, to any age group, they always get that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop William E. Swing at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); 

PERSON: HANS KUNG (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



526 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
No Business Like Show Business

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
Not since Richard Nixon tried to prove his 60's hip bona fides by delivering a "Sock it to me" gag on "Laugh-In" has there been a shotgun marriage of show biz and politics more awkward than George W. Bush's Thursday appearance on "Live With Regis." But male candidates desperately seeking undecided female voters will do desperate things. In this case, Mr. Bush -- whose co-stars on the show were a man who breaks boards over his head and the singer Sarah Brightman -- donned a dark shirt and matching tie from the "Regis collection" and suffered gladly the morning's Kathie Lee wannabe, the persistently dim Susan Hawk of "Survivor." He at least knew better than to give her a smooch, as he had Oprah two days before in his continuing if doomed quest to make up the ground he lost after Al's Excellent Kiss.
You almost have to feel for Mr. Bush. A man who by his own admission loved "Cats" and hasn't been to a movie theater in years, he is not exactly a slick show-biz hand. John Mellencamp and Tom Petty have even forbidden him to play their songs at rallies. But swamped by Al Gore's latest manic chat-show tour (Oprah, Letterman, Leno in 10 days) and Joe Lieberman's (Imus, Conan, Jon Stewart in 24 hours), the poor guy has no choice but to play, even if he doesn't quite get the game. How long will it be before Dick Cheney starts quipping big time with Gilbert Gottfried on "Hollywood Squares"? 
 Pity Mr. Bush. He's so out of it that he may be the only politician in America, regardless of party, who has not hypocritically grandstanded about the Federal Trade Commission's "shocking" report that entertainment companies market violence and sex to kids. Instead of offering a glib governmental panacea to curb Hollywood excesses, Mr. Bush warned that Washington schemes to govern cultural content, "no matter how well intended or well funded, are simply no match" for parental supervision.
Such is the fallen estate of the Bush campaign, however, that his rational stance was easily drowned out by his opponents' shameless barrage of TV clowning (take the Manischewitz shtick, please, Mr. Lieberman), moralistic sermonizing and over-the-top Radio City and Beverly Hills fund-raising. Mr. Bush was also sabotaged by his own self-immolating strategists, who sent their personal Dr. Laura stand-in, Lynne Cheney, as the ticket's anti-Hollywood emissary to Congress and political talk shows. With characteristic shrillness and selective indignation, Ms. Cheney condemned Eminem (though, curiously, without any reference to his homophobic lyrics) and a five-year-old Miramax movie seen only in art houses ("Kids") while scrupulously avoiding mention of more recent violent ("Fight Club") and lubricious ("There's Something About Mary") fare marketed to kids by the conservative fat cat Rupert Murdoch.
This whole culture war, of course, is for public consumption only until Election Day. As Ernest Hollings, the South Carolina Democrat, observed in last week's Senate Commerce Committee hearing, there have been 20 hearings by the same committee on kids and media -- and what do taxpayers have to show for it? The V-chip! Mr. Gore proudly takes credit for that gizmo, but it's no Internet. Ninety-seven percent of American parents don't use it, according to a study that another Democrat, John Breaux, cited in the hearing. The vice president's new placebo for worried moms -- his ultimatum that Hollywood "shape up in six months" or face punitive legislation -- is just as feeble. Such legislation is more likely a full-employment program for First Amendment lawyers than an impediment to any teenager's access to Dr. Dre.
Which is not to say that Mr. Gore's frenzied and often self-contradictory posturing about Hollywood has been without meaning. It's a creepy, if G-rated, preview of coming attractions depicting what his administration may be like at its opportunistic and pandering worst.
On the matter of culture and children, Mr. Gore is repeating his familiar pattern. It was not until years after his sister died of lung cancer that he stopped taking tobacco money and boasting of his tobacco farming so that he could tardily declare Joe Camel Public Enemy No. 1. According to The Los Angeles Times, the vice president's embrace of the F.T.C. report is just as sudden a conversion: a year ago he was reassuring Hollywood executives that he had nothing to do with President Clinton's post-Columbine decision to commission it in the first place. Mr. Gore pulled a similar stunt in 1987 when he and Tipper Gore, on the eve of his first presidential run, groveled behind closed doors before Hollywood donors to disown as a "mistake" Mrs. Gore's 1985 anti-rock-smut crusade, which had led to another high-dudgeon Congressional hearing.
Yet even were Mr. Gore consistent on this issue, it would still be a smoke screen to deflect public attention from what's really going on in the fast-consolidating entertainment industry right now -- and its potentially deleterious effect on children and parents alike. The most important matter before the F.T.C. -- and the F.C.C. -- is hardly the report Mr. Gore and Mrs. Cheney are hawking but the approval of pending media mergers like the AOL purchase of Time Warner. These momentous deliberations are happening off-camera and receive far less attention from politicians and press.
Consumer advocates here and in Europe believe that an unchecked AOL Time Warner may have enough technological and economic clout to dictate how Americans use the coming cable TV-Internet box (and what content they get at what price). Part of that clout could well determine what movies and music are pushed to future generations of children and under what rules. The time is fast arriving when most kids will rent or purchase their media in the privacy of their own homes by cable pay-per-view or Internet downloads rather than by going to multiplexes, Blockbuster or record stores. (Multiplexes are already a dwindling source of movie distribution -- witness the recent theater-chain bankruptcies.)
But even as Mr. Gore proposes government intervention in movie-and-music marketing, he offers nothing but dead silence about AOL Time Warner and other entertainment industry regulatory issues -- all of which will have a far more lasting effect on the child culture he purports to hold so close to his heart as a potential Parent in Chief.
The Bush campaign can't call Mr. Gore on this. While the vice president often goes Hollywood -- the Gores even had Disney supply costly "Beauty and the Beast" costumes and a makeup artist for their 1995 Halloween party -- Mr. Bush has actually worked for Hollywood. As a board member of Silver Screen, which financed R-rated Disney Touchstone movies, he pocketed $100,000 over a decade.
In this regard, the political contributions that are most worth tracking are not those high-profile sums that Mr. Gore collected from movie stars and directors last week. Steven Spielberg, Rob Reiner and Tom Hanks aren't giving so that Mr. Gore will help them let 15-year-olds sneak into "Saving Private Ryan" -- they're giving because they support his traditionally liberal stands on social issues.
Media corporations, by contrast, are seeking favors -- big regulatory favors that increase their hold on our culture, airwaves and wallets. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the two top contributors, Seagram (home of Eminem) and Time Warner, give extravagantly to both parties. Everyone's in the tank. A new investigation by the Center for Public Integrity (read it at www.publicintegrity.org) reveals that some 118 members of Congress, as well as F.C.C. employees, have traveled as far as Taiwan on media-corporation junkets.
Mr. Bush isn't going to challenge these corporations any more than Mr. Gore or Mr. Lieberman are, but at least he doesn't condescend to us by pretending he will. The ingenious trick of Mr. Gore's strategy is that he exploits the vast reach of the entertainment industry to get out his message of phony threats against the entertainment industry. And he doesn't risk being grilled about this contradiction since he has held no press conference with actual journalists, as opposed to entertainers, since mid-July.
Poor Mr. Bush can't even begin to compete in this racket. He is so clueless about show biz that he hoped he might book into Letterman during his New York visit this week, when the show was in reruns. Ricki Lake awaits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: RADIO CITY ENTERTAINMENT (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (88%); POLITICS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MEN (77%); MUSIC (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); FILM (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); FUNDRAISING (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON STEWART (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); REGIS PHILBIN (72%); AL GORE (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



527 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Anti-Milosevic Plan Faces Major Test at Polls

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
After more than seven years opposing President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia on the battlefield and in the negotiating room, the Clinton administration is making one last stand against him -- among the voters.
In a high-profile strategy that began a year ago, the administration has helped finance an opposition movement that is backing Vojislav Kostunica in his campaign to unseat Mr. Milosevic from the Yugoslav presidency in voting on Sunday. 
 Even if, as almost everyone expects, Mr. Milosevic simply declares himself the victor, Washington is hoping that angry voters will take to the streets in a way that eventually drives him from office, much as Ferdinand E. Marcos was ousted in the Philippines in 1986.
The strategy largely reflects the thinking of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who has made democracy a centerpiece of her tenure and has cast Mr. Milosevic as her most bitter enemy.
But the plan, which has ranged from bringing fractious opposition leaders here to meet Dr. Albright in her seventh-floor suite at the State Department to pumping million of dollars into voter education groups and the independent media, has its risks.
For one thing, Mr. Kostunica is a Serbian nationalist who does not necessarily support the NATO presence in Kosovo. Without an official American presence in Serbia, it is difficult to gauge how much of the $25 million spent on the opposition over the last year has been fruitfully used. In fact, the blatant American campaign against Mr. Milosevic has given him a powerful theme for his campaign.
The administration officials who devised the strategy said they believed that Mr. Milosevic, regardless of the vote tallies, would manipulate the results and declare victory. In the best case, the officials said, they hoped that opposition protests would eventually lead Mr. Milosevic's all-important army and security forces to turn against him.
"The people of Yugoslavia are standing up," said James C. O'Brien, special adviser to President Clinton and Dr. Albright on democracy in the Balkans. "They believe it's time for change. There is the potential for seismic change in Yugoslavia."
The administration, Mr. O'Brien suggested, hopes that the elections will provide a "crucial moment, like the Berlin Wall falling." But he said Washington would settle for a "tide turning."
The national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, noted recently that "people power" spelled the end in Manila in 1986 and that the same movement could occur now in Belgrade.
Other officials acknowledged, however, that it was unclear how motivated the opposition would be to protest, whether it could rouse a weary population to rally in great numbers and whether the security forces would turn against Mr. Milosevic.
To encourage opposition activities in Serbia, the dominant republic in Yugoslavia, the United States has spent $25 million in the last year, according to Donald L. Pressley, the assistant administrator at the United States Agency for International Development. Nearly half of the money, $11 million, was spent on helping unions, media organizations and civic associations, Mr. Pressley said.
Two groups here, the National Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute, were allocated $4 million to help groups in Serbia campaign door to door and to develop other get-out-the-vote techniques, Mr. Pressley said. Much of the remaining money went to Serbian cities like Nis and Novi Sad, which are run by independent mayors.
Because American officials are barred from Serbia, a satellite embassy, under the direction of Ambassador William Montgomery, was established in Budapest in the summer to be the fulcrum for the effort to build democracy in Serbia. From Budapest, conferences have been organized in southern Hungary to bring Serbians together with turnout experts from Central Europe.
The Agency for International Development has given contracts to establish nongovernmental organizations like Freedom House and the German Marshall Fund, which give grants to Central European groups that have access to Serbia, Mr. Pressley said.
Thus, O.K. 98, a group that helped unseat Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar in Slovakia in 1998, is working alongside Serbian groups in door-to-door canvassing, he said.
In Serbia, there have been complaints that some of the foreign activity enriches individuals with cash, cell phones and faxes. Mr. Pressley said that $1.5 million of the $25 million effort was earmarked for audits and that A.I.D.'s Budapest operation for Serbia included an auditor.
Administration officials, following their usual policy, refused to confirm or deny the existence of covert operations in Yugoslavia.
One main reason for optimism in the administration is that officials apparently believe that their carefully devised effort to build democracy has helped magnify interest in the opposition candidate, Mr. Kostunica.
Rarely in more than seven years of dealing with Mr. Milosevic has the Clinton administration sounded so upbeat. Nor have officials been so willing to advertise their policy. One official said this week that he had to warn about too much euphoria inside the State Department.
The administration has had little to do with Mr. Kostunica, a law professor who has maintained a fierce independence from American policy and who has said that if he came to power he would not send Mr. Milosevic to the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. The tribunal indicted Mr. Milosevic last year for what it said were crimes committed by his security forces in Kosovo.
Dr. Albright has watched enthusiastically as more than a dozen parties in Serbia's famously fractured opposition decided to back Mr. Kostunica. Administration officials are also upbeat because, they say, they believe that Mr. Milosevic miscalculated by suddenly calling the elections in July, making this his first direct electoral test since 1992.
The unanswered question in the strategy is what happens after the vote. In his 13 years in power, Mr. Milosevic has repeatedly shown his ability to maneuver, manipulating allies and rivals to maintain his grip.
Some administration officials said they believed that if Mr. Milosevic did not lose by a wide margin and, therefore, did not resort to extensive fraud, there would be a less compelling case for protest.
Other officials argue that ordinary people, buffeted by a bad economy and accepting of official propaganda that the opposition is backed by foreign interests, lack the passion for an enduring show of protest.
Other questions concern whether the police and soldiers are prepared to use large-scale force against fellow Serbs. If they are, that raises a question about how much the administration should encourage protest.
"Is this going to be like 1956?" asked one senior administration official, recalling the Western hints to the Hungarians that help would be on the way if the Soviet Union quashed the uprising.
In the last several days, Bratislav Grubacic, a Serbian journalist who is widely read in the Western diplomatic community, has warned that Mr. Milosevic will attempt to stay in power at any cost. "The bigger danger for the Serbs," Mr. Grubacic wrote, "is that the authorities could apply repressive measures such as those in Beijing's Tiananmen Square." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (72%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ARMIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



528 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Stocks Rattled By Bad News From Intel

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
A steep tumble in shares of Intel dragged the stock market lower yesterday, after the company's warning late on Thursday that its sales in the third quarter would grow much less than had been expected. Trading in Intel set a daily record of more than 300 million shares.
But investors proved to be resilient, seeming to see more buying opportunities than problems in the Intel news, and the market shed nearly all its losses by the closing bell. Indeed, the Dow Jones industrial average rebounded to climb more than 80 points. Coordinated intervention in the currency markets by the United States and its allies to support the weak euro also bolstered investors' confidence, some analysts said. 
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index opened sharply lower, falling 214 points, or 5.6 percent, in anticipation of a big sell-off in a market where investors were already worried about the performance of the technology sector and the prospect of weaker earnings growth over all as the American economy slows down. In early trading, the Dow fell 143 points, or 1.3 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 27 points, or 1.9 percent, both pulled lower by their technology components.
Investors reduced the damage in part by buying consumer staples and health care stocks like Coca-Cola and Merck and biotechnology stocks like Amgen, as technology issues were sold. Then some of the technology stocks that were hit hard because of Intel's announcement rallied, as investors apparently took the opportunity to pick them up at lower prices. Dell Computer, which was down as much as $5.19, finished the day at $35.94, down $2.
Hewlet-Packard also helped the rebound, announcing that it would buy back $1 billion of its stock. Its shares were down $3.25 early in the day but turned quickly and finished the day up $5, at $104.25.
Even Intel contributed a bit to the rebound, as its stock bounced from a $46.50 low for the day to finish at $47.94. But it was still down $13.55, or 22 percent.
"I think we hit a little bit of an air pocket here but that's all," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers.
He said the surprise intervention on behalf of the euro by the central banks might help market sentiment some. Many companies, including Gillette, Procter & Gamble and McDonald's, have been saying that the weak euro was trimming their earnings when translated back into dollars. And if this intervention leads to a turn for the euro, that could help the outlook, at the least.
But Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities, said "there is no way we are out of the woods yet."
He added, "Intel is not going to be alone in being a high-profile tech company that disappoints on the downside" on sales and earnings.
At the end of the day, the Nasdaq was down 25.11 points, or 0.7 percent, at 3,803.76 and is now down 6.5 percent for the year. The Dow was up 81.85 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,847.37 and is down 5.7 percent for the year. The S.& P. 500 fell 0.33 point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,448.72 and is off 1.4 percent for the year.
The impact of Intel was reflected in its contribution to the declines of the indexes. In the Dow, Intel contributed about 80 negative points, while it added about 10 negative points to the S.& P. 500. In the Nasdaq 100, an index of the biggest stocks in the Nasdaq composite, Intel accounted for about 54 negative points. The Nasdaq 100 finished the day down 16.97 points, at 3,701.18.
Intel's volume on the day, 308 million shares, shattered the Nasdaq record set in July by JDS Uniphase, which traded 200.4 million shares. Intel broke that record before lunch was over. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 1.17 billion shares.
Intel reported after the close of the market on Thursday that third-quarter revenue would rise just 3 to 5 percent over the $8.3 billion in the second quarter. Analysts had been predicting growth of 12 to 15 percent.
The reason for the slowdown in revenue, Intel said, was weaker demand in Europe for its microprocessing chips. Some of that slump in sales, Mr. Applegate said, was because of the sharp decline this year in the euro, which is down over 12 percent.
Intel did not mention what the impact of the sales shortfall would be on its earnings in the third quarter. But the announcement had a quick impact on analysts' estimates. According to First Call/Thomson Financial, analysts reduced Intel's earnings forecast 3 cents a share, to 38 cents a share, for the third quarter and 43 cents a share for the fourth quarter. The forecast for 2001 was trimmed to $1.74 from $1.86.
Chuck Hill, director of research at First Call, also said that the fall in Intel's earnings forecast had pulled down the overall estimates for earnings growth in the third quarter for the companies in the S.& P. 500. Analysts surveyed by First Call now expect earnings to grow 16.7 percent this quarter, compared with the similar quarter of 1999. This is down from 23.6 percent growth in the first quarter and 21.6 percent growth in the second quarter.
General Motors fell early in the day, dropping as much as $1.94 after it was reported that Carl C. Icahn had sold his stake in the company Mr. Icahn told G.M. in August that he might buy as much as 15 percent of its stock. It was not clear yesterday if Mr. Icahn had permanently dropped his plans to invest in the automaker; the announcement of his plans in August sparked a rally. But G.M. joined in the market rally at the end of the day, finishing at $68.25, down just 6 cents.
In the Treasury market yesterday, interest rates rose slightly. Thomas Connor, head government trader at J. P. Morgan Securities, said that the small sell-off came as the stock market rallied from its opening lows. He said that bonds had rallied, sending interest rates lower, late on Thursday after the Intel announcement.
At the time, bond traders expected Intel to spark a sharp sell-off in stocks yesterday, sending investors into bonds. But that did not happen.
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note climbed to 5.85 percent, from 5.83 percent on Thursday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 5/32, to 99 8/32.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); KO (NYSE) (54%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (54%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); AMGEN INC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



529 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Intervention Means Winners and Losers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
When the central banks of the world's leading industrial nations intervene in the currency market, there are winners and losers.
The currency traders who are betting that the euro will continue to decline lost yesterday. But if they had been making this bet for a while, they are still way ahead -- the euro is still down 13.7 percent in value against the dollar so far this year. And if they think that the euro will rally, they can just change their bet and make more money. 
 A recovery in the euro would help American exporters. The weak euro has made their products more expensive in Europe, hurting sales. And for companies that have big markets in Europe, their sales and earnings in euros have been reduced when they are exchanged for stronger dollars. Indeed, a number of big multinationals -- including Gillette, DuPont, Colgate-Palmolive and McDonald's -- have recently warned that the weak euro will reduce their third-quarter earnings.
American companies competing against European imports in the United States would also like a stronger euro and a weaker dollar. A weak euro makes European products, like cars, cheaper, hurting domestic sales.
But American travelers to Europe will have reason to be unhappy with a rally in the euro, if it happens. Travelers to some parts of Europe, like France, have not seen such bargains when it comes to exchange rates since the mid-1980's.
But whether it is American tourists or multinationals that benefit from yesterday's action depends on whether the intervention works as planned.
In this case, successful intervention would mean that the euro begins to climb in value. But achieving that success may take more coordinated interventions and a clear sign that Europe is growing at a faster economic clip while the United States is slowing significantly. That would make Europe more attractive to global investors, meaning they would buy more euros to invest there. But that trend has not taken hold yet. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



530 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Prague Journal;
Protesters Assemble, Hoping for a Rerun of Seattle's Show

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Woodstock was once the Valhalla for aspiring hippies everywhere -- a name that invoked the ideals of a generation of make-love-not-war activists. For today's dreadlocked wannabes, there cannot be much doubt that the word is Seattle.
"This is our Seattle," says Desko Vladic, a 23-year-old German blacksmith who traveled to Prague by bus carrying comb, toothbrush, fork and knife in his baggy painter pants. "Seattle was the most amazing thing I have ever seen -- people uniting to shut down a global institution." 
 His reference was a little skewed. The World Trade Organization picked Seattle for a global trade summit meeting late last year, only to see it collapse with unruly protests outside and discord among trade ministers inside. It still enforces the global trade guidelines from lakeside headquarters in Geneva.
But as perhaps 20,000 European and American protesters converge on the cobblestone streets of Prague for a series of demonstrations that start this weekend, Seattle looms as a beacon, and a challenge.
The target has changed. They are now stalking the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the Washington-based lending agencies. But the goal is the same: Grab a share of the media spotlight to fight what are seen as agents of corporate-led globalization. Better yet, for a true Seattle high, steal the show altogether by blockading hotels and intersections so delegates cannot move.
"This is the first time that Europeans have had a chance to bring all these issues together in one unified movement like the Americans did," said Rachel Hudson, a 23-year-old from Liverpool. Ms. Hudson, wearing running sweats and a silver nose-ring, spoke as she wrapped twine around bamboo poles to make a garage-sized globe for a march on Tuesday.
"We just want people to open their eyes and understand how all the overconsumption in the West exploits the poor," she said. "And if we can stop these delegates from doing more harm, that'd be brilliant, wouldn't it?"
Prague has mostly welcomed the protesters. Vaclav Havel, the former dissident who is now the Czech Republic's president, has invited pressure groups to join him and leaders of the World Bank and Monetary Fund for an open debate at the Prague Castle on Saturday. The city also opened Strahov Stadium, a gray and decrepit monument of Prague's Communist past, as a campground for visiting demonstrators.
But Prague has just begun to taste the fruits of globalization -- a few sparkling McDonald's and Tesco department stores are the most visible symbols around the Baroque masterpieces of Old Square -- and most local politicians and policemen do not share the desire to relive Seattle.
The police have summoned reinforcements from around the Czech Republic. They are promising to turn out 11,000 officers in their puffy blue and gray uniforms, armed with pistols, attack dogs and water cannon. Protesters will have to produce their full complement of 20,000 to field two activists for every policeman. Large areas of the city are being closed to traffic; shopkeepers have closed early, boarding their windows.
Anticipating that it might be difficult to shut down the Congress Center, where World Bank and Monetary Fund officials have already begun their weeklong session, the umbrella group organizing the protests, called the Initiative Against Economic Globalization, has tried to turn the event into a celebration of the movement's many intellectual pillars.
Said Amin, an Egyptian neo-Marxist, is scheduled to lecture at a so-called countersummit meeting on how the lending agencies act as colonialists once did. Leonida Zurida Vargas, a Bolivian peasant activist, came to Prague to call attention to the forced eradication of coca plantations she says has displaced thousands of indigenous farmers.
Protest organizers, many of them Americans who were involved in the Seattle demonstrations, say the diversity of participants in the demonstrations here is a strength. But it is also a bit of a cacophony, a sort of Joseph's coat of many causes. The sheer volume of groups and complaints belies any common theme.
The boldest headlines from the Prague clash could come courtesy of a promised confrontation between neo-Nazi skinheads and anarchists who formed the Antifascist Faction League. The two groups, the left and right extremes of the European youth underground, say they have gathered in Prague to fight the lending agencies. But they seem more excited about fighting each other.
They plan rival marches in Letna Park on Saturday, neither of which has been authorized by the police. Both sides say they will reluctantly bash heads to get their message across.
"I don't personally like violence, but there is just one way to stop the skinheads," said Jan Kensky, 22, a Prague anarchist and warehouse worker. "When we chase the Nazis out of Prague, maybe the World Bank can leave, too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three policemen patrolled the Charles Bridge yesterday as Prague prepared for anti-globalization protests. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); RETAILERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



531 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Drawn to the Faces Others Avoid;
For Some, Foster Care System Fulfills a Longing to Adopt

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
In a windowless room on the eighth floor of a Lower Manhattan office building, a pair of photo albums are passed around one recent evening. On page after page, artful portraits of boys and girls stare up, some smiling solo at the camera, some draping their arms around a brother, a sister.
The faces are achingly familiar, for they are the famously hard-to-adopt foster children in the city's custody, many of them older, some of them with physical or emotional problems, all of them legally severed from their birth parents but lacking adoptive homes of their own. 
 Lesser known are the faces assembled around the table, wordlessly poring over the pages of these so-called family albums.
As wealthier childless New Yorkers turn increasingly to costly private adoptions, often circling the globe for an orphan to bring home, these are the New Yorkers willing to adopt the city children that few seem to want: the Queens schoolteacher itching to be a mother for the first time; the childless couple waiting for something to call out from one of these pages; the upstate Orange County parents who no longer want to take in foster children, only to have to return them some years later.
Economics has something to do with their choices. None of them can afford private adoption, which can easily run up to $20,000. Adoptions from the foster care system are subsidized, offering $500 to $1,200 a month per child, depending on medical needs.
But money is only part of it, they say. Like Ada Jurado, 48, who has taken in several foster children over the years, many would-be adoptive parents say they are driven by their consciences and determined to act on those consciences locally.
Mrs. Jurado, a school safety monitor in Middletown, says she was driven in part by the memory of her own mother, who raised seven children and took in a stranger's child as well. The mother of her husband, Juan, also raised children other than her own. So now, with two teenage daughters moving out of the family's sprawling suburban home in a few years, Mrs. Jurado said she felt a sense of obligation to a child without a home. "I have room now," she said. "It's like wanting to give back."
In many ways, Mrs. Jurado is emblematic of those who adopt the city's foster children: mostly middle-aged women who used to be foster parents, according to a study of city adoptions by Trudy B. Festinger, a social work professor at New York University.
In 1998, 3,820 foster children were adopted in New York City, and two-thirds of the people who adopted them were single parents, mostly mothers. Their median age was 51; fathers had a median age of 52. Half of the adoptive parents were the very foster parents -- including relatives -- who took the children into their care early on.
There is no readily available data on the racial or class backgrounds of the people adopting city children. But Ms. Festinger says most of them are working people or those on public assistance. Although there are exceptions -- the actress Isabella Rosselini has an adoptive son from the city foster care system, as the child welfare commissioner, Nicholas Scoppetta, is fond of noting -- the parents are often from the same communities as the foster children.
Whoever these prospective parents are, city officials and others say it feels as if there are never enough of them, especially in the aftermath of recent legislation aimed at speeding up adoptions. The 1997 Adoption and Safe Families Act, a federal law intended to accelerate and increase foster care adoptions, requires child welfare officials to consider ending parental rights if a child has been in foster care for 15 of the last 22 months.
"I think the message is, we will need more adoptive parents if children are freed for adoption and parents' rights are terminated under A.S.F.A.," Mr. Scoppetta said.
At the moment, there are about 1,000 children in the city's custody who have been freed for adoption but not yet placed with an adoptive family. They are the ones the city is pushing most aggressively.
There are orientation sessions for interested parents like the one last week, sponsored by the Council on Adoptable Children. And there is the city's annual adoption fair scheduled for tomorrow afternoon in the East Meadow of Central Park. In addition, 14,000 children -- close to half of the total foster care caseload of 32,000 -- are in the custody of foster parents who are interested in adopting them.
The city has had some success in adoptions in recent years, with the number of completed adoptions climbing from 1,130 in the 1990 fiscal year to a peak of 4,000 in 1997 and then dipping to 3,100 in 2000.
Nationally, pressed by the new adoption law and financial incentives offered by the Clinton administration, adoptions have increased noticeably. According to figures released by the Department of Health and Human Services this week, adoptions rose nationwide to 46,000 in the 1999 fiscal year, from 28,000 in 1996. The federal agency has granted financial rewards to states that have increased their adoption numbers; New York was not among the recipients this year.
The waits for the city's children are still typically quite long. According to Ms. Festinger's analysis, New York City children who were adopted in 1998 came into foster care at a median age of 4.4 months, were freed for adoption at 5.6 years old, and were not adopted until a median age of 8.4 years.
Such waits in turn can make public adoptions virtually impossible for those who want to take in a baby. That is what Patricia, a Queens school aide, hoped for at first, a baby that she and her husband of 19 years could raise from the beginning.
She does not know anyone who has gone through the private or international adoption networks, but heard only that they are prohibitively expensive. She has heard, too, about the sad, troubled lives of foster children, and seen them firsthand in the public school system.
But at 44, having all but given up hopes to bear a child, she has turned to that system anyway. She says that she would now be happy to have a toddler, the younger the better. "My husband and I don't have any children of our own," said Patricia, who agreed to reveal the details of her search for a child on the condition that her last name be withheld. "We wanted a family."
Her reasons seem about as selfish and selfless as those of anyone who wants children. "I would like to take that responsibility," she added, "try to train children to be able to contribute to society, to God. I'd really love that. Aside from the love and sharing and all that, I'd really love that."
Katherine and Larry, the only white couple in the room that night, had driven in from Highland Falls, in upstate Orange County, to look through the family album. They, too, had unsuccessfully tried for years to have their own child. They, too, had heard that private adoptions would be beyond their financial reach.
On this evening, Katherine, who works at a bookstore, and Larry, an architect, sat at one end of the table, long after everyone else had left, carefully looking at each picture, reading the short narratives of the children's lives and waiting for something special to leap off a page. Katherine, 45, said she was not sure what she was looking for. And she wondered aloud what would happen to all those ones she skipped: the sweet-looking boy named Clyde, the brother and sister who were at risk of being separated.
"Oh my God, how do I turn the page so fast?" she murmured. And then she turned the page.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: People wishing to adopt foster children attended an orientation session Wednesday in Manhattan. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); An album of the foster children in New York City who are waiting to be adopted, used by those who are looking for children to adopt. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOSTER CARE (92%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOPTION (90%); PARENTS (89%); ORPHANS (77%); WOMEN (77%); FAMILY (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); SUBURBS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ADA JURADO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



532 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Politics or Policy?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Did President Clinton decide to dip into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve today to protect Vice President Al Gore? Or does he truly believe it will reverse a jump in oil prices that could hurt millions of Americans and threaten the country's remarkable prosperity?
Mr. Clinton's aides insisted today, not surprisingly, that the decision was made on policy grounds alone. But none denied that it had the pleasant side effect of casting Mr. Gore into the limelight as the man who tried to save American homeowners from a winter of sky-high heating bills. 
 It may be weeks -- maybe even after the Nov. 7 election -- before anyone knows whether the unusual intervention in the oil markets announced today will have a lasting economic impact.
But politics moves a lot faster than oil tankers do.
And so Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore are exploiting one of the ultimate perks of incumbency -- the power to move both oil and markets -- in hopes of lifting an economic burden on millions of American households while outflanking a Republican ticket that Mr. Gore has already charged with being a tool of big oil.
"Look, no one here is going to argue that we made this decision in a vacuum -- Gore's people were right in the room," one senior administration official said today. "But just because it helps Al doesn't mean it was the wrong policy choice. A week ago we were going the other way. But if you looked at the markets in the past few days, it was clear we couldn't sit and do nothing."
It was particularly clear to Mr. Gore, who called President Clinton on Tuesday and told him that he was going to give a speech later in the week calling on the president to tap the reserves. In public, Mr. Gore said he was seeking only a small intervention in the oil markets -- starting with five million barrels, roughly a quarter of the amount of oil that the United States consumes in a single day. But he was clearly looking for more.
"He left the president a lot of room to do a little or a lot," one of Mr. Gore's aides said today. But the message was clear: He had to do something.
What Mr. Clinton did in the end was split the difference between two cabinet members who had been arguing over the subject for weeks. One was Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who told the president in a memorandum earlier this month that he should flood the market with 60 million barrels, or more than 10 percent of the reserve.
That prompted a sharp retort from Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers. Mr. Summers viewed Mr. Richardson's proposal as foolish, saying it would "set a dangerous precedent" by using the reserves to manipulate prices rather than act as an insurance policy against real disruptions in supply.
The sale might have a modest effect on prices, Mr. Summers argued, but it would not last long. The markets would quickly conclude that the United States did not dare pull the same trick twice -- because it would not want to exhaust its emergency reserves or give Mr. Gore's Republican opponent, Gov. George W. Bush, the chance to make a credible argument that the administration was endangering America's energy security in an effort to get Mr. Gore elected.
But that is exactly what Mr. Bush charged on Thursday, after Mr. Gore's announcement calling for the release of the reserves. He repeated the charge today, saying, "The Strategic Petroleum Reserve needs to be used in the case of war, in case of major disruption of supply. This is an administration that has had no energy plan."
But Mr. Bush may have a hard time arguing that a plan that keeps 95 percent of the stocks in the ground, unused, poses a major threat. And today, the White House was trotting out members of its national security team to assure reporters that they had reviewed the plans and thought it posed no problem.
Mr. Richardson went a step further, arguing that because he was "swapping" oil rather than selling it -- that is, releasing it in return for commitments from oil companies to put even more back in -- the result would be a "further increase in the nation's protection against potential or actual energy supply disruptions."
He is right, as long as any disruptions come after the supplies are replenished. It seems unlikely, however, that he has convinced Saddam Hussein, who has been verbally threatening Kuwait in recent days, to sign on to that strategy.
The other unanswered question is whether Mr. Summers's warnings of last week -- he has since revised his view, he says, because the oil market has tightened further -- will prove prescient.
That depends in part on how well the administration conducts its behind-the-scenes diplomacy in the Middle East. Nations in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries could easily nullify the effects of the administration's move by cutting their own production by the same million barrels a day.
"We think we can head that off," one administration official said.
If so, the announcement today could have a significant impact.
In the oil markets, as in the currency markets, just a bit of additional supply can have a much-magnified effect on price -- especially if traders believe that Washington is ready to act again.
That is what Mr. Summers and other economic officials around the world were betting this morning when they intervened in the international currency markets to support the lagging Euro, the European currency, and it is what Mr. Gore is betting with his oil initiative.
But the price effect can prove temporary if traders conclude that the chance of additional releases of oil is remote.
One administration official noted today that Mr. Summers, Mr. Richardson and others, in a conference call on Thursday night, had settled on releasing 30 million barrels because "it was big enough to really move the markets, and yet small enough to make a convincing case that we could do more if we have to."
No doubt Mr. Gore will be on the stump suggesting that he can do plenty more if he needs to.
"I reject the agenda of those who say, 'Don't even offer a plan, do nothing about it,' " Mr. Gore said today in Pennsylvania. "We are not helpless. We can act. We have tools at our disposal."
That is, incumbents do. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



533 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON APPROVES RELEASING SOME OIL FROM U.S. RESERVE

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON with NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
President Clinton ordered the release today of 30 million barrels of oil from the nation's emergency reserve over the next month, only a day after Vice President Al Gore injected the issue into the presidential campaign.
The announcement helped drive down crude oil prices, and analysts said the move could be effective, in the short run, in checking or even reversing the surge in home heating oil and gasoline prices in the run-up to Election Day. But analysts said there were no guarantees that consumers would benefit and that the decision did nothing to address the underlying issue of how to bring energy supply into line with demand over the long run. 
 Administration officials said they acted primarily because inventories of heating oil on the East Coast had fallen to worrisome levels, raising the risk of shortages should the winter be particularly cold or long.
Mr. Clinton made his decision after a sharp debate within the administration over whether releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was justified, and after talking by telephone on Tuesday with Mr. Gore, who told the president at that time that he intended to call for use of the reserve to stabilize oil prices.
Mr. Gore did that on Thursday but recommended starting with the release of a smaller amount, 5 million barrels, with the possibility of releasing more. Mr. Clinton committed himself today to a substantially larger 30-million-barrel release.
The president's decision played neatly into Mr. Gore's campaign strategy of portraying himself as fighting for the people against powerful interests like big oil companies.
It also allowed Mr. Gore to dominate the news again on an issue of his choosing, forcing his opponent, Gov. George W. Bush, into an argument about who could do more to help consumers. And it was clearly intended by Mr. Gore to minimize the chances that voters could be put in a sour mood before Election Day by high prices for gasoline or heating oil.
In a statement, Mr. Bush said the stockpile was created as a backstop for times when the supply of oil has been seriously disrupted, such as a war. And he pointed out that as recently as last winter, Mr. Gore had opposed use of the reserve just to deal with rising prices.
"I believe the vice president has made this decision, with the support of the president, for short-term political gain," Mr. Bush said.
At a stop in Pennsylvania a few hours before the administration announced its decision, Mr. Gore said it was time to stand up to what he called big oil and its apologists, of whom he implied Mr. Bush was one.
"These prices are skyrocketing," Mr. Gore said. "It's hurting small business. It's hurting those on fixed incomes. It's hurting young families. And the prospect for even higher prices ahead is going to cause even more trouble unless we act now."
Administration officials said they had been considering the issue for weeks, but came to a consensus on how to proceed only during a late-night conference call among the president's senior advisers on Thursday, a few hours after Mr. Gore gave a speech in which he laid out the case for drawing on the nation's oil reserves. Mr. Clinton then signed off on the strategy today.
The decision was announced by Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who said the government would begin taking bids starting on Monday, with the expectation of releasing 30 million barrels over 30 days.
Energy Department officials said they expected the oil to begin reaching buyers in Gulf Coast terminals by Nov. 1, and said the oil would go from there to refineries around the country over the next several weeks. The crude oil could be refined and on the market as heating oil by early December.
Rather than selling the oil outright, the government intends to enter into deals with refiners under which the companies will agree to replace the oil it is taking, and then some, at a later date. In that way, Mr. Richardson said, the program would add to the nation's oil reserves rather than deplete them.
The United States uses about 19 million barrels of oil a day, 10 million of them imported, according to the energy department. The 1 million barrels a day from the reserve, plus a modest increase in production promised several weeks ago by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries means that crude oil supplies in the United States should rise enough to lower prices of both crude oil and refined products in the short term, said Angela Antonelli, director for economic policy at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group.
The price of crude oil for November delivery fell by $1.32 cents a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange today, closing at $32.68. Heating oil for delivery in October fell by 4.41 cents a gallon, to 95.48 cents. On Thursday, after Mr. Gore called for release of the reserves, prices dropped $1.24 a barrel for crude oil.
Clinton officials acknowledged that there had been a split within the administration over how to proceed, with Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers arguing against a big release of oil, and Mr. Richardson leading the charge in favor.
But they said the differences narrowed in recent days as it became clear that stocks of home heating oil were extremely low.
Nationally, inventories of heating oil stood this week at 48.1 million barrels, down from 72.4 million barrels a year ago, according to the energy department. On the East Coast, inventories were at 24.4 million barrels, down from 48.5 million a year ago, and in New England they stood at 4.6 million barrels, down from 14 million a year ago.
Mr. Richardson said the 30 million barrels of crude oil could put an additional 3 million to 5 million barrels of heating oil on the market. Because crude oil is refined into a number of products, supplies of gasoline and diesel are also likely to increase, he said.
"Portland, Maine, will be in the 50's next week, so will Minneapolis, and it snowed in the Rockies yesterday," Mr. Richardson said at a news conference. "We need to make sure the American families keep warm this winter and get their heating oil."
Mr. Richardson said that after 30 days the administration would evaluate whether the program was working and whether to continue.
Administration officials said that they had briefed OPEC members on the possibility of tapping the reserve, and that they were hopeful the organization would view the decision as a response to domestic concerns about the supply of heating fuel rather than as a challenge to OPEC's efforts to keep prices at a profitable level.
The problem of heating oil inventories was driven in part by expectations among refiners that crude oil prices would decline in coming months, leading them to wait rather than build their inventories with expensive oil now, analysts said.
If crude oil prices fall and stay down, refiners could prove more willing to increase their inventories, which could help lower heating oil prices. But refineries are already running close to capacity, limiting how much more heating oil they can produce. And crude oil prices are notoriously sensitive to other factors.
Over the last two weeks, Iraq has also talked belligerently, accusing Kuwait of stealing its oil and intimating that it would reduce or cut its oil exports to pressure Kuwait's allies, particularly the United States.
Iraq exports about 2.3 million barrels a day, or about 4 percent of the world's daily consumption, and any reductions on its part would destabilize a world market where supplies of oil are tight.
"You can't put a finger on the outright price and where it's going to stop," said one New York oil trader. "What will Iraq do or not do, will Saudi production hold; we'll have to see what new information is introduced into the market."
Supporters of the move, especially in the Northeast, said it would be a substantial help in ensuring that consumers get through the winter without facing crippling heating bills.
"The bottom line is that this is great news for the Northeast and the American economy," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat from New York.
The strategic reserve was established in 1975, after the Arab oil embargo. It contains about 570 million barrels of oil, which is stored in salt domes along the Gulf Coast.
It was first used in 1991, when President George Bush ordered that as much as 30 million barrels be released during the war against Iraq. In the end, only about 17 million barrels were actually sold.
Mr. Clinton then sold smaller amounts in 1996 as part of an effort to raise money to balance the budget. Small amounts have also been sold to pay some of the reserve's costs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In his first news conference in two months, Vice President Al Gore spoke in Vanport, Pa., about oil prices. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Bill Richardson, the secretary of energy, reviewed the decision yesterday to use the nation's oil reserves as a check against rising fuel prices. The move followed a call on Thursday made by Vice President Al Gore. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Chart: "The Oil Market"
President Clinton's announcement yesterday that he would release 30 million barrels from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve helped drive down the price of crude oil. Some analysts say the move could be effective in the short term in checking or even reversing the surge in home heating oil and gasoline prices.
Graphs show the daily price of crude oil by the barrel from June 9 to September and compares last year and this year's weekly U.S. inventory of oil
 
Graphs show the daily price of distillate fuel (used to make home heating oil and diesel fuel) by the gallon from June 9 to September and compares last year and this year's weekly U.S. inventory of distillate fuel.
(Sources: Bloomberg Business News prices ; American Petroleum Institute inventory )(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



534 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: The Wounded Euro

 BODY:
Yesterday's surprising decision by the United States to join with Japan and Europe in propping up the euro will not heal the ailing new currency, but it was a gesture worth making.
The euro's slide poses no grave threat to the world economy. Indeed, by cutting the cost of buying European goods, it helps American consumers and travelers to Europe. A lower euro does make American goods more expensive for Europeans to buy, hurting sales of American exports. But the American economy, according to the Federal Reserve, is in danger of overheating and needs no extra assist from more exports. 
 But the sagging euro has seriously hurt some American industries. It also hurts European consumers by driving up the price of imports and makes the European Central Bank's task of keeping inflation low that much harder. If, as the finance ministers believe, the slide of the euro is temporary, then there is an argument for returning it to its long-term value as soon as possible.
The theory behind intervention is that the euro is falling primarily because currency traders expect it to continue to fall. Intervention, so the argument goes, can swing currency traders around to the idea that the euro's slide is ending, inducing them to buy the euro, thus driving up its price.
In reality, interventions rarely work. The amount of money that governments are prepared to spend buying euros is tiny compared with the amounts that private currency traders are prepared to sell. Interventions can change currency values, but only if they are tied to changes in government policy. If, for example, the Federal Reserve had intervened yesterday as part of a decision to drive interest rates lower, investors would start selling dollars and buying euros. But that was not the Fed's intent in this case.
The best case for intervention is that America's European allies asked for help. Someday the United States might seek European assistance to prop up a falling dollar or to rein in a soaring dollar. If finance ministers feel compelled to help one another out, there is little danger in trying. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); SALES & SELLING (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



535 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Israel Said to Consider U.N. Role in Jerusalem
Israeli diplomats are promoting the idea of United Nations control of the Temple Mount as a way to break the Israeli-Palestinian deadlock over the sacred site, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz said. Officials confirmed only that the foreign minister had discussed the idea with French and Egyptian leaders, noting that Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, had not shown interest in the proposal. A1
 
U.S. Envoy to Israel Removed
Ambassador Martin Indyk, an architect of Washington's policy in the Middle East, was relieved of his post and lost his security clearance pending an inquiry into whether he mishandled classified materials, State Department officials said. There was no suspicion of espionage. A3
 
France Allows Baghdad Flight
France let a group fly from Paris to Baghdad, asserting that it never recognized an embargo on civilian air travel to Iraq. The flight, coming soon after two Russian flights to Baghdad, appeared intended to force the Security Council to reconsider its post-gulf war flight embargo. A7 

Sect Leader Can Stay in U.S.
A federal immigration court said Zhang Hongbao, leader of a banned Chinese meditation group who is under investigation on rape charges in Beijing, could stay in the United States for now, a rights group said, though he was not given asylum. A5
 
World Briefing A7
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Court Clears Twins' Surgery
England's Court of Appeal said doctors could proceed with an operation to separate joined twins that would sacrifice one to save the other. The parents' lawyers will appeal. A4
 
OBITUARIES A14-15
 
Yehuda Amichai
The Israeli poet who distilled his experience -- and his nation's -- into highly metaphorical verse written in Hebrew and translated into more than 25 languages was 76. A14
 
NATIONAL A8-13, 18
 
Clinton Agrees to Put Oil Reserves on Market
President Clinton ordered 30 million barrels of oil released from the nation's emergency reserve in the next month, a day after Vice President Al Gore injected the issue into the presidential campaign. Crude oil prices dropped and analysts said the move could help check the rise in fuel prices. A1
 
Mr. Gore held his first news conference in 67 days, defending his call for the oil release and vowing to "confront friend and foe alike" over the marketing of violent entertainment to children, despite the big donations he receives from Hollywood. A11
 
Gov. George W. Bush criticized the oil decision and told elderly voters that he would promote medical advances "with new resources and new resolve" by increasing financing for the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute. A11
 
Gore aides distributed news accounts from last year that they said showed Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, then heading an energy-services company, praising OPEC for driving up oil prices. A11
 
E-Mail Reveals Fund-Raisers
Reconstructed e-mail messages given to federal and Congressional investigators show that Mr. Gore's senior aides routinely characterized White House coffee sessions as fund-raising events in early 1996. A9
 
Attorney General Janet Reno said there was no basis for investigating Mr. Gore's relationship to donations from trial lawyers interested in a presidential veto. A9
 
NBC Opts for Baseball
NBC said it would broadcast a baseball game instead of the first presidential debate, and might not show the third debate. A10
 
Review of Secrets Case
Attorney General Janet Reno told President Clinton that she had ordered a review of prosecutors' handling of the case of the former Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee. A12
 
Young Hacker Is Sentenced
A 16-year-old from Miami, Jonathan James, was sentenced to six months in juvenile detention for penetrating government computers. A9
 
Beliefs A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
White House Releases List Of Clinton House Guests
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton have had 404 overnight guests at the White House and Camp David since she began campaigning for the New York Senate seat in July 1999. The guests included campaign donors and Democratic fund-raisers. The White House and Mrs. Clinton's campaign denied any link between donations and sleepovers. A1
 
Negotiations to ban soft money in the Senate race collapsed after Mrs. Clinton offered a plan that Rick A. Lazio embraced -- until he learned that outside interest groups could help her but not him. B1
 
Interest Ebbs in Police Career
Only about 1,300 recruits are expected to enter the Police Academy on Sept. 29, far fewer than the nearly 1,600 that officials had expected. Reasons for the shortfall are thought to include pay levels and a tarnished image of the Police Department. A1
 
Online Grocer Changes Plans
Webvan said it was delaying plans to open facilities in Bergen County, N.J., and Maryland, and would not discuss a plan promoted by New York City officials on Thursday in which Webvan would take over a vacant South Bronx warehouse. B1
 
EDUCATION
 
Princeton President Leaving
Harold T. Shapiro, 65, said he would step down next year. B5
 
Union Leaders Plead Guilty
Teachers in Buffalo ratified a five-year pact, and three union leaders pleaded guilty to contempt of court in connection with a walkout. B2
 
FASHION B7
 
SPORTS D1-14
 
A Golden Partnership
Gary Hall Jr. and Anthony Ervin, who train together, tied in the 50-meter freestyle. It was the second time that two gold medals were awarded for an Olympic swimming race. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
Move to Shore Up Euro
European, American and Japanese central banks, expressing concern over what they called a threat to the world economy, bought billions of euros, pushing the value to 90 cents, though it later slipped to 87.87. A1
 
Taco Shells Recalled
Kraft said it was recalling Taco Bell brand taco shells because they contain a genetically engineered corn not approved for humans. C1
 
Higher Tire Pressure Urged
Ford said Explorer owners should inflate their tires to 30 pounds per square inch, up from 26. C1
 
Stocks Finish Mixed
The Nasdaq lost 25.11 points, to 3,803.76, and the S.& P. 500 slipped 0.33 point, to 1,448.72, but the Dow was up 81.85 points, to 10,847.37. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-19
 
Auction Houses Settle Case
Sotheby's and Christie's tentatively agreed to pay $512 million to settle claims of cheating customers. A1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Gridlock at La Guardia; sleepovers and soft money; approval for RU-486; the wounded euro.
 
Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B15
Public Lives A8
Crossword B17
Weather C16
TV Listings B19 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAQ (90%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAQ (90%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); WRITERS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); LAWYERS (68%); DESERT STORM (68%); POETRY (68%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (67%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); MEDITATION (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); APPEALS (64%); CANCER (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (61%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); ESPIONAGE (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (75%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



536 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: City Short of Police Recruits as Job Loses Luster

BYLINE: By KEVIN FLYNN

 BODY:
In a striking illustration of the eroding interest in police careers, New York City has fallen far short of finding enough recruits to fill its next Police Academy class, which is scheduled to begin training in just a few days.
Recruiters will continue to try to find candidates right up to Friday, when the new class is scheduled to be hired. But with one week to go, the city expected to enlist only about 1,300 new officers, not the 1,589 it had planned to add to the force, according to police officials who have been told of the shortfall. 
 The officials said it was the first time in memory that the Police Department had been unable to fill openings for what has long been considered a secure, respected job, with decent pay and good benefits. In recent years, however, the luster of the job has dulled as public criticism of officers has risen and the pay scale has stagnated.
Interest has flagged despite unprecedented spending on advertising -- $20 million in the last two years -- to attract new candidates. Police union officials predict that if current conditions persist, the force will inevitably shrink. Police managers are concerned enough to be reviewing a host of measures to lure applicants, like allowing rookies more time to earn the 60 college credits required for the job, the officials said.
But a police spokesman said it was premature to discuss the size of the incoming class or any steps that might be taken to address the recruiting issue. "While the process is going on, the department does not comment on personnel decisions," said Thomas Antenen, the spokesman.
New York is far from alone in its difficulty in finding new officers. Los Angeles, Chicago and Phoenix are among the dozens of American cities where police agencies have struggled in recent years to compete for candidates with a booming private economy that often offers safer, better-paying jobs.
But the problem in New York has grown particularly acute. The city is already facing a possible wave of retirements in the next five years when 10,000 veteran officers will become eligible to leave with full pensions. If a majority of those officers retire, as many expect, it will be essential to fill recruiting classes just to keep pace with attrition.
"If we don't make this class," said John Driscoll, president of the Captains Endowment Association, the union representing many supervisory officers, "and we have no one signing up to take the tests, we will eventually reach a point where we will have no one to make up the shortages, and the department will have to shrink."
In the short term, there is little danger New York will find itself with too few police officers. The 40,000-member force is already the largest in city history, with roughly 8,000 more officers than a decade ago. On a per capita basis, the department has 54 officers for every 10,000 residents, more than any other large American municipality, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. In fact, when the new class of rookies hits the streets after seven months of academy training, the force will grow to 41,000 officers at a time when the city is enjoying the lowest crime rate in more than three decades.
Still, the long-term prospects for police recruiters do appear daunting. For five years, the number of people signing up to take the police exam has been dropping. While 31,986 applicants signed up for the test in 1996, only 8,381 applied for the test last May. The next test, to be given in November, has drawn a meager 1,896 candidates, with only two weeks left in the application period. If history holds, as many as one-third of those who sign up for the test will not show up when it is given.
Given their predicament, police officials have not been pleased with an $800,000 ad campaign sponsored by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association that has juxtaposed a graphic picture of a fallen officer with the message that officers are paid far too little. Police officers in the city with five years on the job now earn $54,000, a salary that lags behind that paid by Nassau and Suffolk Counties, where officers with equivalent experience earn $76,000 and $78,000.
"We did not create this problem," said the union's president, Patrick J. Lynch. "But we are giving them a solution and the solution is to pay police officers a livable wage."
Mr. Lynch, who is in the midst of contract negotiations, expressed concern that the city will lower standards for recruits as hiring becomes more difficult. Police officials countered that the current shortfall in recruits is evidence that the department is willing to forsake its hiring goals rather than settle for less-qualified candidates.
Certainly, if the city had been willing to cut corners, there were opportunities to make up the shortfall. Even today, there are tens of thousands of names on active Civil Service hiring lists for the position of police officer. All of the candidates have passed the police test in the last four years.
But officials said they found that thousands of the candidates did not meet the educational or physical requirements. Others had not reached the minimum age of 22. Many had dropped out of an earlier application process because they could not pass the medical or psychological tests. Still others had a past drug problem or criminal record that surfaced during their background screening. And thousands more had lost interest in the job or had found another position.
Even after police recruiters contacted 28,000 of these candidates by letter and telephone, the department fell nearly 300 short of its goal of 1,589 new hires, officials said. In March, the city had been able to completely fill the last academy class, which had 1,500 openings.
The new class of 1,300 could be winnowed further once the recruits get a taste of academy life. Typically, the department loses 5 to 8 percent of a recruit class because of resignations and terminations.
Other police departments that are experiencing recruiting problems of this magnitude have taken to searching across the country, to solicit interest from the broadest possible pool of applicants. New York has avoided such an effort, in large part because it is trying to attract more city residents, especially blacks and Hispanics, to take the test, with some success.
Similarly, New York officials have played down any talk of eliminating the entrance requirement of two years of college that was introduced by the department in 1996. Many police officials across the country believe that stricter entry qualifications have made it tougher to recruit at a time when accomplished people have such a variety of options in a sizzling private-sector economy. Several studies, however, have shown that college-educated officers receive fewer brutality complaints and take fewer sick days.
"Two years of college is not a panacea," said Jerome H. Skolnick, a professor at the New York University School of Law who teaches a seminar in police practices. "It is a minimal requirement. Once you drop it, any concept of professionalism in policing is going to be discarded."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- RANKS DROPPING FOR POLICE EXAM
The number of applicants who signed up for the Police Academy entrance exam.
 
June 1996: 31,986
May 1998: 21,567
January 1999: 14,202
October 1999: 15,027
May 2000: 8,381
(Source: New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLICE FORCES (94%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); 

PERSON: PATRICK J LYNCH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



537 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Online Grocer To Postpone An Expansion

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
The online grocer that was scheduled to open two large warehouses in the South Bronx and Bergen County, N.J., bringing more than 1,900 jobs to the region, said yesterday that it would delay its most immediate expansion plans, including the New Jersey warehouse.
Technology industry analysts said the delay also cast doubt on plans by the company, Webvan Group Inc., for the Bronx warehouse, which was supposed to provide more than 900 jobs, a project that New York City officials promoted on Thursday. Officials at Webvan would not comment yesterday on the plans for that distribution center, in the former Alexander's department store warehouse in the Hunts Point section. 
 The company has been offered $11 million in incentives from economic development officials in New York and more than $3 million from New Jersey for the respective warehouses. Economic development officials in both states said they were hopeful that Webvan would be able continue its plans.
George T. Shaheen, president and chief executive of Webvan, which is based in San Francisco, said that company officials believed "that by focusing our key resources on bringing our existing operations to profitability, we will be in a better position to significantly reduce the capital needed to drive our business."
Webvan officials said they would postpone the scheduled opening of the New Jersey warehouse, already under construction in Logan Township, for at least six months. The warehouse was to begin operating in 2001 and create 1,000 jobs. Webvan also announced plans to postpone the opening of a warehouse in Glen Burnie, Md. It was supposed to serve the Baltimore and Washington markets.
Technology analysts said that the move came after signals from Wall Street that investors are not happy with the performance of Webvan, a publicly traded Internet company.
Like many business-to-customer Internet companies, Webvan has sustained significant losses. Webvan recently acquired HomeGrocer.com, and together, the two companies posted losses of $103.7 million in the first quarter. Much of those losses have come from capital investments into new distribution centers like the $40 million warehouse the company opened in Atlanta in May.
Webvan's stock climbed to more than $34 per share almost immediately after its initial public offering last November. But the stock has dropped in recent weeks to record lows of about $2 per share. Yesterday, analysts said that they were still optimistic about Webvan's future because of its corporate leadership, technology and the merger with HomeGrocer.com. But they were less positive about expansion in the immediate future.
Yesterday, Merrill Lynch released a bulletin on Webvan's decision to delay its expansion plans, saying that while analysts there supported the notion of conserving capital financing and focusing on profitability, they were "discouraged by the rescheduled launch of Webvan's two newest" distribution centers.
In addition to their concerns that Webvan is operating in areas where there are not enough families willing to spend the money needed to make grocery deliveries profitable, Merrill Lynch analysts have long held that they were most concerned with the company's ability to successfully perform a national rollout and enter new markets.
Webvan now operates in 9 markets, including San Francisco, Chicago and Atlanta, and was expected to be in 13 metropolitan areas by the end of 2000 and 15 by the end of 2001. "We now expect Webvan to be in 13 markets by the end of 2001 and believe plans to enter Boston and New York could be permanently delayed," Merrill Lynch said in its bulletin.
The analysts said that the expansions into Boston and the South Bronx would depend on proving that Webvan could come closer to making a profit and, in turn, receive more venture capital financing. "Part of the promise in owning this stock was that the company would execute on its national rollout, and the failure to deliver is disappointing," according to the Merrill Lynch bulletin.
Shawn Milne, a senior analyst at E*Offering, a San Francisco firm that specializes in technology stocks and has generally been optimistic about Webvan, said that the company was "clearly in a mode to prove their business model, their economics box, to Wall Street to get more capital."
Mr. Milne echoed other analysts when he said that Webvan might not find Manhattan too attractive because of logistical problems. But he said that Westchester County, western Long Island and southern Connecticut had potential because of easy access to their highways from the Bronx and because of the family demographics in those areas. Online delivery companies have struggled, in part, because they have not attracted enough families making large orders. Instead, in many areas, like Manhattan, they lose money on each delivery.
Only Thursday, plans to open the Hunts Point distribution center had economic development officials crowing and politicians, from City Hall to the State Capitol, jockeying for credit. But yesterday's announcement left those same political and government leaders a little wary. City and state officials had given Webvan $11.1 million in incentives, including grants and tax breaks, to bring in jobs and undertake the $40 million renovation of the building.
The incentives included a $500,000 grant, $6.7 million in city and state wage tax breaks, a $2 million federal grant to train employees and $1.9 million tax abatement for machinery, equipment and renovation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (55%); MER (NYSE) (55%); 8675 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: WEBVAN GROUP INC (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET RETAILING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (68%); STOCK OFFERINGS (68%); MERGERS (67%); CITIES (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE T SHAHEEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



538 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Smugglers, Too, Can Need a Lawyer's Help

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
To people familiar with the multibillion-dollar trafficking of human lives and dreams, the operation described by federal prosecutors in Wednesday's indictment of a Manhattan immigration lawyer sounded all too commonplace.
The lawyer, Robert E. Porges, along with his wife and some employees, were accused of aiding the "snakeheads," or smugglers, who illegally transport Chinese men, women and children to the United States. 
 Describing the Porges law firm in Chinatown as a racketeering enterprise, the government also charged that it was so intimately involved in trafficking that it knew the names of illegal Chinese immigrants before their smuggling ships dumped them off the American coast.
For those Chinese who made it ashore undetected, the prosecutors said, the firm arranged plane tickets to New York City and then notified the smugglers so they could be sure to find the immigrants and ultimately collect their fees.
Mr. Porges, 62, and others in his firm who are charged in the case have pleaded not guilty.
Other immigration lawyers and advocates said they could not comment on the specific allegations against the Porges law firm. But they agreed that the cruel and sometimes deadly smuggling of humans was big business and that like any multinational corporation, it employed a many-tentacled network of lawyers, financial institutions and subcontractors to operate smoothly.
As in organized crime or drug trafficking, experts say, part of the overhead of doing business as a smuggler of immigrants is having a friendly law firm on your side.
That smugglers have relationships with specific law firms is apparent from the instructions given would-be immigrants from Fujian Province in southeast China, the source of most recent illegal immigration to the United States.
"When you're in Fuzhou, before you leave, you get a phone number and you're told that if anything happens, call this number," said Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies at Hunter College, referring to the Fujian provincial capital. "And that number is the lawyer's number, the one that the smuggler has a deal with."
In anticipation that some percentage of smuggled immigrants will get caught and detained as they try to enter the country, the smugglers in China even offer a discounted rate to their clients for any necessary legal representation.
The reason is that the right lawyer can help a smuggler protect his investment.
For some immigrants, the contract with the smuggler may end upon arrival in the city when their relatives here pay the remaining debt. But others sign up on credit, promising to repay the $40,000 to $50,000 price of passage after finding work in the United States.
If they are arrested before they can sneak into a city and begin to work in the underground economy, they represent a potential loss of profits for the smuggler unless they get released on bail or are granted political asylum.
Under both options, the smuggling operation needs lawyers to keep an immigrant in its grip.
"The critical point about the lawyer," Mr. Kwong said, "is that they help keep control of a cargo that the smugglers don't want to be mishandled or lost in passage."
When an immigrant-smuggling operation comes undone and the immigrants are arrested, a lawyer can also file an application on their behalf for political asylum. But legal aid lawyers dealing with asylum said that they were constantly faced with situations in which a Chinese detainee is too frightened of reprisals from the smugglers to deal with anyone but a specific law firm.
Matt Walth, director of asylum and immigration issues at the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, said his organization ran into that situation last year when it tried to provide lawyers to 89 illegal Chinese immigrants who were being held in a prison in Ullin, Ill.
Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service had refused to release the group on bail, arguing that the Chinese were at risk of being abducted by agents of the smugglers who had transported them from Fujian Province and forced them into indentured servitude.
The Lutheran group, which is based in Baltimore and provides free legal help to immigrants, first talked to the detainees.
"None of them were signed up with lawyers at the time," Mr. Walth said. "Within a week or so, when we started sending teams of attorneys out there, all of the sudden we saw that there were attorneys signed up to represent these individuals. So we asked the asylum-seekers and they finally said, 'We didn't hire anybody and our families didn't hire anybody.' "
"That's kind of a microcosm of what happens," Mr. Walth added. "But we wanted to give asylum-seekers an option to what we felt were the smugglers' attorneys."
Eventually, Mr. Walth's group and other volunteer lawyers took the asylum cases of several dozen of the Chinese and arranged for many of them to be released to secret shelters in hopes that the smugglers would not find them.
A few have been granted asylum; the rest are awaiting hearings. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAWYERS (95%); IMMIGRATION (92%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); BAIL (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: MATT WALTH (77%); ROBERT E PORGES (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



539 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Art Auction Houses Agree to Pay $512 Million in Price-Fixing Case

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL and RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
The world's largest auction houses, Sotheby's and Christie's, agreed yesterday to pay $512 million to settle claims that they cheated buyers and sellers in a price-fixing scheme dating back to 1992.
The civil settlement, reported by lawyers but not officially announced, comes as prosecutors for the Justice Department are stepping up efforts to conclude a three-year criminal investigation focusing on evidence that the two auction giants stifled competition by colluding on a host of business practices. 
 The lawyers said that the auction houses are each responsible for $256 million of the settlement.
The settlement is equivalent to about three or four years of annual pretax profits for each firm. If the case had gone to trial, however, and the auction houses lost, they could have been liable for triple damages, a judgment that could have reached $1.3 billion, one lawyer connected with the case said.
Lawyers familiar with the negotiations said yesterday that the agreement was reached late Thursday night at the offices of Weil Gotshal & Manges, the law firm representing Sotheby's, and included Christie's counsel, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom, as well as the lead counsel representing the buyers and sellers in the class-action suit, Boies, Schiller & Flexner of Armonk, N.Y., and Hanover, N.H.
The civil case grew out of the federal antitrust investigation that focuses on documents that court papers say record years of secret meetings by top officials of the two houses aimed at colluding on fees paid by buyers and sellers as well as a host of other business practices.
Prosecutors have been investigating actions dating back as early as 1992 to see whether the two houses cooperated to set identical commission charges for buyers in 1992 and for sellers in 1995. This would have made it more difficult for sellers to play the houses off against each other in the hope of extracting better deals. It would have also made it impossible for buyers to choose between them solely on the basis of commission costs.
The documents also established that the companies exchanged confidential lists of superrich collectors who were not to be charged commissions at all. The auction house officials are also said to have shaken hands on a host of other policies such as charging identical interest rates to sellers and not poaching each other's staffs.
The settlement was based on everything from auction house employee diaries and expense accounts to travel records and notes that put Sotheby's and Christie's officials together at times and places where the strong inference pointed to conspiracy, people close to the case said.
Michael L. Weiner of Skadden Arps declined to comment, referring calls to a public relations spokesman for Christie's, who did not return a call. A spokesman for Sotheby's, Matthew Weigman, also declined to comment as did David Boies and Richard B. Drubel of the Boies firm. There was no response to a message left for a Sotheby's lawyer, Greg Danilow at Weil Gotshal.
The agreement will not be formally announced until Judge Lewis A. Kaplan rules on whether to approve the settlement preliminarily and give notice to the buyers and sellers, a decision that is expected soon. Under the agreement, the boards of both auction houses are required to vote on the settlement by Sept. 30.
Under the settlement, half of the $256 million would be due within 30 days of the judge's preliminary approval and the remainder after final court approval. Each auction house has the option of making up to $50 million of its payment in certificates to sellers, which would be transferable and could be used toward reducing commission costs on future consignments.
In addition to the $256 million that the houses are required to pay, they also have to split the costs of notifying the 120,000 buyers and sellers as well as such administrative expenses as processing and distributing the claims, which could cost an additional $1 million, people close to the case said.
On May 26, Judge Kaplan selected Mr. Boies and Mr. Drubel of the Boies firm to lead the civil case after an unusual bidding process intended, the judge said, to maximize the recovery for clients while keeping legal fees down. The judge had law firms submit sealed bids offering the highest settlement figure they would be willing to accept in negotiations and turn over entirely to their clients, without taking a fee. The firms also proposed a second figure for a settlement beyond this, from which they would receive a quarter and their clients the rest.
Yesterday, in an opinion that made no reference to the settlement, Judge Kaplan discussed the bidding process and noted one potential problem: if the case could not be settled for more than the winning bidder's maximum figure, the firm would have no incentive to pursue the case and would "make a hasty exit." But the judge said that in such an eventuality he retained the authority to reject an inadequate settlement. There was no suggestion that the judge was referring specifically to yesterday's agreement.
The federal investigation began more than three years ago but it was thought to have been dormant until January when the Justice Department's antitrust office in New York received more than 100 pages of documents -- memorandums and notes of secret meetings that took place between Christopher M. Davidge, a former Christie's chief executive, and Diana D. Brooks, his counterpart at Sotheby's. (Mr. Davidge resigned from his job on Dec. 24.) The documents also contain reports on these meetings written by Mr. Davidge and sent to his boss, Anthony Tennant, chairman of Christie's from 1993 to 1996.
Along with providing the documents, Christie's agreed to cooperate with the federal inquiry and, in exchange for its help, the company was granted a form of leniency called conditional amnesty, with the provision that its cooperation be complete and truthful. Christie's general counsel, Jo Backer Laird, disclosed the cooperation on Jan. 28.
The settlement also includes some of Sotheby's longtime executives including A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman who is still its majority shareholder, and Ms. Brooks. Both abruptly resigned from their posts in February and are under investigation by federal prosecutors.
By some accounts, documents gathered for this case show that the collusion began with Mr. Taubman and Sir Anthony who, as early as 1992, instructed Mr. Davidge and Ms. Brooks to carry out the scheme. Since the case began, Mr. Taubman through his lawyers, has denied any wrongdoing. Sir Anthony, when reached by telephone at his London home, declined to comment.
To wind up their investigation, prosecutors under John J. Greene, head of the Justice Department antitrust office in New York, have been intensively negotiating with counsel for Ms. Brooks, seeking a deal that would secure her testimony against her former boss, Mr. Taubman, in exchange for leniency, according to people close to the talks.
The settlement came after negotiations in which each auction house tried to be the first to strike an agreement in the hope that the other would be forced to accept a worse deal or to fight it out in the courts with the buyers and sellers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about an agreement by Sotheby's and Christie's to pay $512 million to settle a civil antitrust lawsuit by auction buyers and sellers who contend that they were cheated by collusion on fees referred incorrectly to John J. Greene, the federal prosecutor who is leading a separate criminal antitrust investigation in New York. He is not the head of the Justice Department's New York antitrust office; the head is Ralph T. Giordano.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (90%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (85%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PRICE FIXING (93%); LAWYERS (91%); AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CARTELS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS A KAPLAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



540 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 2;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Central Banks Move to Rescue An Ailing Euro

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Shaken by the relentless decline of Europe's unified currency, the euro, the European, American and Japanese central banks undertook a surprise rescue attempt today to fight what they called a threat to the world economy.
Their move, announced as financial ministers from the Group of 7 industrialized nations arrived here in advance of a meeting Saturday, was the first time in two years that central banks had staged a coordinated currency intervention -- and the first time ever that they had done so in support of a European currency. 
 The action also represented a shift by the United States Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, who had consistently opposed calls for intervention and as recently as Thursday had reiterated support for a strong dollar. His comments were widely interpreted at the time as ruling out United States participation in any attempt to strengthen the euro against the dollar.
The banks bought billions of euros with dollars, yen and British pounds in the intervention, pushing the euro's value up to 90 cents from 85 cents. The euro later slipped back to settle at 87.87 cents.
The currency had fallen below 85 cents from its initial price of $1.18 in January 1999, a decline of almost 30 percent that disheartened euro supporters, who had seen the new currency as a symbol of their broader ambitions for European unity.
The intervention underlined fears that Europe faces a potential economic shock from the combination of a sinking common currency and soaring oil prices. Because oil is bought and sold in dollars, the recent rise in the price of oil has hurt European consumers much more than those in the United States.
This has heightened inflation pressure across Europe and could force the European Central Bank to raise interest rates enough to slow the European economy. Robust European growth, in turn, has helped extend the record-long American expansion, so any slowdown in Europe could directly hurt the United States.
Explaining United States participation in the currency action today, Mr. Summers cited risks to the global economy.
"The United States and Japan joined with the European Central Bank in concerted intervention in exchange markets because of their shared concern about the potential implications of recent movements in the euro for the world economy," he said in a statement.
The European Central Bank released an almost identical statement to explain its action.
None of the central banks disclosed how much they spent to buy euros, but some currency market analysts speculated the total was as much as $10 billion.
The success of today's intervention will depend on whether the euro climbs further or resumes its decline, and that may not be clear for weeks or even months. But the banks as a group have much more money at their disposal to buy euros, and the action today raised the prospect they could swoop in again if they decide the euro is too weak.
"We didn't have a particular level in mind," said Otmar Issing, the European Central Bank's chief economist. "That wasn't the goal."
Moreover, the United States decision to come to the aid of the Europeans made the joint action far more likely to restore some luster to the tarnished euro, several traders and analysts said.
The United States so rarely seeks to interfere in currency markets that it carries considerable influence when it does. The global action also represents the first time that central banks of Japan, Canada and Britain joined the new European Central Bank in defending the euro, a vote of support as the European bank faces the toughest test of its short existence.
The move is risky for the Clinton administration. The strong dollar has been an important ingredient of the record-breaking United States economic expansion by helping keep imports relatively inexpensive and inflation low.
If today's market action were to help restore the euro to what many economists consider its value based on economic fundamentals, that would mean an increase of at least 15 percent, making a euro roughly equivalent to $1.
Any sharp decline in the dollar would raise the cost of imports in the United States, add to the already enormous trade deficit, and possibly force the Federal Reserve Board to raise interest rates faster or higher than it otherwise would.
One reason international financial officials had considered active American support for the euro unlikely is that the Clinton administration has generally avoided taking actions that might prove detrimental to Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign, which depends in part on the continued robustness of the American economy.
Speaking to reporters in Washington today, Mr. Summers sought to navigate an apparent contradiction between his oft-repeated stance in favor of a strong dollar and the decision to sell dollars and buy euros on the global market. He said there had been no change in policy.
"As I have said many times, a strong dollar is in the national interest of the United States," he said.
Currency market analysts generally viewed the intervention as a good thing.
C. Fred Bergsten, head of the Institute of International Economics in Washington, said he expected at least a modest rebound in the euro but did not foresee a serious threat to the dollar's long-term strength.
"To say that you want a stronger euro is not to say that you want a weak dollar," he said, noting the prolonged rise of the dollar versus the currencies of all of America's major trading partners.
The decline of the euro, which has been adopted by 11 European countries and will soon replace national currencies like the German mark and French franc, had political as well as economic repercussions.
Denmark is to hold a national referendum on adopting the euro on Thursday, and the currency's weakness has seriously eroded popular support. In Britain, which has not adopted the euro, opposition to possible future participation has intensified. Numerous European officials have said that the euro's weakness threatens to undermine the trend toward economic integration and a more politically unified Europe.
"It doesn't take a Ph.D. in political sciences to figure out that populist parties all across Europe will jump on the anti-euro bandwagon," said Joachim Fels, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in London. He said the euro project had become engulfed in a "confidence crisis."
The last time central banks cooperated to intervene in currency markets was in 1998, when the United States and Japan rescued the tumbling Japanese yen.
At the time, financial panic had spread around Asia, and American officials were worried that any further deterioration in the yen could force China to devalue its currency. That was seen as likely to set off a fresh round of turmoil across the region, where the International Monetary Fund had just committed about $100 billion in emergency financing to shore up South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand.
The intervention worked. The yen regained about 30 percent against the dollar. Giant investment funds and banks that had been betting on a further deterioration of the Japanese currency were caught off guard, and many were forced to abandon their positions with heavy losses.
But the United States has not always had success influencing the price of the dollar.
In 1985, the United States, Japan and European banks agreed, in what became known as the Plaza Accord, to jointly intervene and reverse a sustained dollar surge. The dollar traded then at more than 3 German marks, a record.
The intervention pushed the dollar down -- but by far more than the authorities had anticipated. They subsequently sealed a second pact, known as the Louvre Accord, this time to buy dollars.
That intervention fell short of its goal, bankers said. It took many years, until the sharp rise in the United States economy in the mid-1990's, for the dollar to regain its footing fully.
In part because of that mixed record, Mr. Summers has often expressed a reluctance to intervene. His reputation was so well known that most currency traders and analysts had considered it highly unlikely that the United States would join any effort to strengthen the euro even if European nations and Japan tried to do so on their own.
The intervention also caught the market off guard because even European officials appeared almost hopelessly disunited about whether there was a need for intervention.
Italian, Spanish and German officials have asserted in recent days that a weak euro was not necessarily bad because it helped promote exports and stimulate growth. "The weak euro makes our enterprises very happy," said Giuliano Amato, Italy's prime minister.
Yet the European Central Bank had clearly been trying to shore up the euro. The bank raised interest rates six times in the last year, moves the market interpreted as currency support by making bank deposits and other assets denominated in euros more valuable. And the bank last week bought a modest amount of euros with some of its own foreign exchange reserves.
None of those actions did much to support the currency, however, until today's joint intervention, which traders said had a profound effect for its sheer shock value.
"I am astonished," said Axel Siedenberg, head of economic research at Deutsche Bank. "We always had the impression that there was no awareness of the problem on the other side of the Atlantic."
The involvement of the United States won praise from numerous bankers, many of whom had gathered in Prague for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as well as Saturday's meeting of Group of 7 finance ministers.
"It is a very good thing, and it is good because it was a coordinated intervention," said Martin Kohlhaussen, president of Commerzbank of Germany. "I hope it is enough to give the euro the necessary push that it needs."
 
Banks Explain Their Reasons
 
Following is the text of the statement of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt as it announced the joint action with other central banks yesterday:
 
On the initiative of the European Central Bank, the monetary authorities of the United States and Japan joined with the European Central Bank in concerted intervention in exchange markets because of their shared concern about the potential implications of recent movements in the euro exchange rate for the world economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sept. 23 about intervention by the world's major central banks to support Europe's unified currency, the euro, misstated the record high of the dollar against the German mark. The 1985 figure, above 3 marks, was not the record; the dollar was as high as 4.2 marks in April 1956. A reader's e-mail message in late September about the error was initially mis directed at The Times, and this correction was further delayed by efforts to verify past price data.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, in Washington yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "A History of Market Interventions"
Since the Bretton-Woods agreement, which fixed foreign exchange rates, was dissolved in 1971, the world's leading economies have sometimes worked together to try and insure that no major currency becomes too weak or too strong. Usually this has meant intervening in foreign exchange markets as happened yesterday. Here are some of the more important interventions.
 
FEB. 1973 After the United States fails to act to stem panic from a rapid decline in value of the dollar and soaring gold prices, West Germany, France, Belgium, Netherlands and Switzerland begin buying dollars.
 
NOV. 1978 United States creates a $30 billion fund to use to intervene in foreign exchange markets. It uses the fund to prop up the dollar, which has been weakened by rising oil prices, increasing inflation and a deteriorating United States balance of payments.
 
SEPT. 1985 The United States, Britain, France, West Germany and Japan agree to coordinate a series of interventions to weaken the dollar. The agreement is called the Plaza Accord after the Plaza Hotel in New York City, where the delegates meet.
 
FEB. 1987 The Louvre Accord. The members of the Plaza Accord and Italy agree to shore up the dollar, which has been weakened by the growing United States trade deficit.
 
1988-90 With the agreement of its industrialized partners, the United States intervenes to stem the growing strength of the dollar.
 
1991-92 Gulf War plunges United States into recession. U.S. and European central banks intervene repeatedly to prop up weakened dollar.
 
APRIL 1994-AUG. 1995 Dollar reaches post World War II lows against the mark and the yen. United States, Japan and European central banks intervene repeatedly.
 
APRIL-JUNE 1998 Japan, with United States assistance, steps in to help the sagging yen.
 
JAN. 1999-APRIL 2000 Concerned that its currency is too strong and could pose a threat to its nascent economic recovery, Japan, with the help of the United States and European central banks, tries unsuccessfully to weaken the yen.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Reuters)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "The Euro Stops Here"
A coordinated purchase of euros by major central banks yesterday helped stop the currency's prolonged fall.
 
JAN. 4, 1999
Trading began; euro closed at $1.18
 
YESTERDAY:
87.87 cents, up 2 cents
Graph tracks the decline of the euro from January 4 to yesterday.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CENTRAL BANKS (92%); EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INFLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000



541 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: September 24, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	SAVING FAITH, by David Baldacci. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) A man and a woman are caught in machinations of the F.B.I. involving corruption in Washington.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	6	BLACK NOTICE, by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley, $7.99.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta's investigation of a ship's cargo leads her into an international conspiracy.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	27	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	2	A WALK TO REMEMBER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $6.99.) In 1958, a high school senior in North Carolina finds love with the daughter of a Baptist minister.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	2	HIGH TIDE, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A New York businesswoman, on a trip to the Everglades, becomes a suspect in a murder case.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	2	NIGHT TALES, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $14.95.) Four novels of romantic suspense that revolve around police officers and a prosecutor.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	 *THE ALIBI, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $7.99.) Jealousy, intrigue and corruption beset a Charleston lawyer during his pursuit of public office.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	2	NIGHT SHIELD, by Nora Roberts. (Intimate Moments/Silhouette, $4.50.) A cop tries to stop herself from falling for a good-looking shady character.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	6	HEARTS IN ATLANTIS, by Stephen King. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) Five long, interconnected stories about an America haunted by the Vietnam War.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	1	MONSTER, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Alex Delaware undertakes to discover how an inmate of a mental hospital can correctly predict brutal murders on the streets of Los Angeles.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	2	PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf. (Vintage Contemporaries, $13.) A half-dozen members of a high-plains Colorado community learn to contend with the variety of problems that face them.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	2	STEALING SHADOWS, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $6.50.) A psychic convinces herself -- but no one else -- that a murderer is stalking a North Carolina town.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	1	AFTER DARK, by Jayne Ann Krentz writing as Jayne Castle. (Jove, $6.99.) A woman discovers a dead body in a low-rent museum of ancient horrors.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	8	TARA ROAD, by Maeve Binchy. (Dell, $7.99.) Two women -- one from Ireland, one from New England -- learn a lot about each other and themselves when they exchange houses for the summer.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	15	WHILE I WAS GONE, by Sue Miller. (Ballantine, $12.95.) A small-town veterinarian, the wife of a minister, begins a flirtation with an old friend from her bohemian past.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	'TIS, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.) An Irish immigrant gets used to life in America: the second volume of a memoir.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	. . . AND NEVER LET HER GO, by Ann Rule. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) The murder of a secretary to the governor of Delaware by an esteemed attorney.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	119	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	97	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	5	 *THE TERRIBLE HOURS, by Peter Maas. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The role a United States Navy officer played in rescuing the crew of a submarine in 1939.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	1	A MAN NAMED DAVE, by Dave Pelzer. (Plume, $11.) The concluding volume of a memoir that began with "A Child Called 'It' "and "The Lost Boy." (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 7	8	ISAAC'S STORM, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $13.) An account of America's deadliest hurricane, in Galveston, Tex., in 1900, and the Weather Bureau scientist who failed to forecast it.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	123	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived abuse at the hands of an unstable, alcoholic mother. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 9	74	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life at a series of foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	16	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 11	62	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	2	 *THE PLEASURE OF FINDING THINGS OUT, by Richard P. Feynman. (Helix/Perseus, $14.) A collection of pieces by the late physicist.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	61	 *GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	14	THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $14.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	73	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geographical advantages. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 16	12	 *I'M A STRANGER HERE MYSELF, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $14.) What it's like to return to the United States after living abroad for two decades.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	 	 	 	 1	44	WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson. (Putnam, $19.95.) How to deal with changes at work and in life in general. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	53	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $26.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS 2001. (Guinness, $26.95.) A profusely illustrated collection of records about subjects as various as sports and technology.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	10	EATING WELL FOR OPTIMUM HEALTh, by Andrew Weil. (Knopf, $25.) A physician's guide to food, diet and nutrition. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	17	RELATIONSHIP RESCUE, by Phillip C. McGraw. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A program for reconnecting with one's partner. (+)		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	 	 	 	 1	20	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	206	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	10	THE FOUR AGREEMENTS, by Don Miguel Ruiz. (Amber-Allen, $12.95.) A code of conduct based on personal freedom. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	THE OTHER SIDE AND BACK, by Sylvia Browne with Lindsay Harrison. (Signet, $7.50.) A psychic's guide to coping with the world and the future. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	1	TALKING DIRTY WITH THE QUEEN OF CLEAN, by Linda Cobb. (Pocket Books, $8.99.) A housekeeping guide.	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Sept. 9, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (56%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); MURDER (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (75%); ALIBI (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); RELIGION (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



542 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: East of Suez

BYLINE: By Alan Riding; Alan Riding is the European cultural correspondent of The Times, based in Paris.

 BODY:

 THE MISSIONARY
 AND THE LIBERTINE
 Love and War in East and West.
 By Ian Buruma.
 319 pp. New York:
 Random House. $25.95 
 Latin America is a product of Spain and Portugal, Africa still carries the marks of British and French rule, but Asia? It too was colonized of course -- India by Britain, Indonesia by the Netherlands, Indochina by France, the Philippines by Spain and the United States -- yet somehow it never quite surrendered. The colonizers, however, never quite caught on. They saw the Orient as peopled by exotic natives unconcerned with progress, ruled by ritual, in need of Christian enlightenment. When the natives behaved badly, they were also deemed untrustworthy. But these stereotypes hardly prepared the West for, say, the attack on Pearl Harbor, the fight against colonialism, the Japanese economic miracle and the rise of the Asian "tigers."
Ian Buruma belongs to a long tradition of Westerners who have tried to explain the East to the West. He is also better equipped than most. Born in the Netherlands in 1951 to a British mother and a Dutch father, educated in the Netherlands and Japan, fluent in Japanese, he has spent much of his adult life living, studying and traveling in Asia and a good many of those years writing books ("God's Dust,"+ "A Japanese Mirror," "Behind the Mask") and articles. His instructive and entertaining new book, "The Missionary and the Libertine," a collection of 25 essays published in The New York Review of Books between 1985 and 1995, reinforces his reputation as a modern Orientalist with an original voice.
Buruma's approach is neither that of foreign correspondent nor that of travel writer: he writes about eight different countries, but rarely do we feel in any particular place. Rather, as if wary of "truth," he focuses on perceptions, notably those of Asian intellectuals and politicians about both East and West and those of American and European writers and politicians about Asia. These he then filters through his own experiences and pops out as judgments. The result is a complex mirror game, not least because the essays are not published chronologically, but also because, courageously, Buruma has not edited out views he no longer holds. "I did not want," he says, "to kill the freshness of impressions and observations with the questionable wisdom of hindsight."
His basic premise, though, remains valid: that the West's view of the East is still largely shaped by stereotypes, that Asia is not a monolithic bloc beholden to Confucianism, that the East has indeed been profoundly influenced by the West, that Asia is no longer that different. To this he adds an important element: that Asian politicians and intellectuals who promote the creed of "Asian values" -- that the East cannot be measured by Western yardsticks -- are cynically defending their own power and privileges.
Buruma starts by looking at the West's embrace of Asia's cliches about itself through the larger-than-life figure of Yukio Mishima, perhaps Japan's most widely known modern writer, who committed ritual suicide by sword in 1970. For Buruma, Mishima was a phony, "a very gifted buffoon" who claimed to personify the samurai spirit when he was in fact quite at home with Western culture. Buruma's real targets, though, are Westerners -- he mentions Marguerite Yourcenar and the documentary filmmaker Paul Schrader -- who took "Mishima's mythology at face value."
In politics too, Buruma adds, Japan was good at mythmaking. It was of course never colonized but after World War II it was occupied by the United States and remodeled as a Western democracy. Did this work? Hardly, Buruma contends. In practice, concerned more with fighting Communism, the United States was quite happy with a political system run for and by "an elite of bureaucrats, corporations and conservative politicians." The joke was that this elite then used the defense of "Japanese harmony" to justify protectionist trade barriers. Discussing "Made in Japan," the autobiography of Akio Morita, the founder of Sony, Buruma says "his cultural explanations for Japanese business success are not only self-serving and disingenuous, but false." The real losers, he notes, were Japanese consumers, who paid high prices for local goods, and Japanese citizens, who lived in a disguised dictatorship.
One bizarre consequence of political control, Buruma argues in an essay inspired by Nagisa Oshima, director of the celebrated art-porno film, "In the Realm of the Senses," was an explosion of sex and violence in entertainment. He dismisses the commonplace that this was born of the lack of religious constraints. (Japan's first boy-girl screen kiss dates only to 1946, ordered by American censors as part of the country's postwar democratic education!) Instead, he interprets unrestrained sex and violence in movies and comic books as a reaction to political constraints, with "assaults on social taboos" the only way to rebel. "From student activism to pornography to show-business dandy," he writes of Oshima and other radicals, "not a bad summing up of postwar Japanese culture."
To explore what he considers American misreading of Japan, Buruma looks at others who have been doing the explaining. Edwin O. Reischauer, a scholar and author born in Japan to a missionary family, who served as the United States ambassador to Tokyo from 1961 to 1966, "could be counted upon to explain Japanese cultural sensitivities to the unthinking and unfeeling barbarians." Once Japan was perceived as an economic threat, a response came from so-called revisionists "who maintain that the Japanese (or East-Asian) version of capitalism is fundamentally different from the Anglo-American system." This set the stage for Michael Crichton's thriller "Rising Sun," in which "they" -- the Japanese -- are "sinister forces" bent on manipulating "sincere, decent folk."
Of course, all that trendy paranoia about American decadence and Asian tigers looks a tad dated today: the United States is booming, Japan is in a deep slump and the Asian bubble burst in 1997. Buruma may not have predicted this, but he certainly saw through the "Asian values" line put out by Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, China and others as a defense against Western human rights complaints. Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore's longtime prime minister and now senior minister, was the most articulate spokesman for Asian values simply because he ran the most efficient authoritarian state. The twist, Buruma writes, is that the anti-Western diatribes of Lee and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia are "not so distant echoes of their British colonial education." He adds: "Lee and Mahathir still claim to uphold the old standards, even as the West goes to the dogs."
The East-West mirror game continues as Buruma ventures into Pakistan (and the rise to power of the Radcliffe and Oxford-educated Benazir Bhutto), the Philippines (with Corazon Aquino's election representing the return to power of the elite installed by the United States in 1946) and Hong Kong (where already in 1990 British-educated Chinese were alarmed over China's scheduled takeover). But perhaps nowhere do echoes of empire reverberate more than in India, albeit less than in 1951, Buruma recalls, when Nirad C. Chaudhuri dedicated his celebrated "Autobiography of an Unknown Indian": "To the memory of the British Empire in India, which conferred subjecthood on us but withheld citizenship, to which yet every one of us threw out the challenge Civis Britannicus sum, because all that was good and living within us was made, shaped and quickened by the same British rule."
Buruma's intellectual guides to India are the Romanian writer Mircea Eliade and his autobiographical love story, "Bengal Nights"; the great Indian movie director Satyajit Ray, perhaps the last Bengali renaissance man; that perennial outsider V. S. Naipaul, whose grandfather left (British) India for (British) Trinidad around the turn of the century and who himself opted to live in Britain; and Chaudhuri, who moved to Britain in 1970 and dedicated himself to "castigating his former masters for their crudeness, ignorance and illiterate philistinism."
Indeed, Buruma observes, it was evidently some consolation for Indian intellectuals to know they were culturally superior to their rulers: "So there was Chaudhuri, lover of Mozart, Pascal, Burke, Wordsworth and Dante, ruled by Englishmen whose tastes were adequately served by Kipling's 'Barrack-Room Ballads.'+" Chaudhuri himself redefined the "White Man's Burden" even more colorfully. "Any exhibition of knowledge of European life, civilization or history," he once wrote, "drove the British community in India to make the gesture which peasant boys in India make at a passing train. They expose themselves and wave their hips." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDONESIA (91%); SPAIN (91%); PHILIPPINES (90%); FRANCE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); PORTUGAL (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDONESIA (91%); SPAIN (91%); PHILIPPINES (90%); FRANCE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); PORTUGAL (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); WRITERS (87%); RELIGION (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); 

PERSON: IAN BURUMA (96%); YUKIO MISHIMA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



543 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2594 words

HEADLINE: Williamsburg Rethinks History

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ASHENBURG; KATHERINE ASHENBURG is the author of "Going to Town: Architectural Walking Tours in Southern Ontario" (McFarlane, Walter & Ross).

 BODY:
TO begin, a confession: Mobcaps embarrass me. When I visit a restored house, an interpreter in historical costume makes my heart sink. The hair and makeup are modern, the shoes are usually all wrong; the interpreter looks uncomfortable and I feel doubly so. On the other hand, an old building furnished as it was originally is one of the best windows into the past that I know.
So I approached my second trip to Colonial Williamsburg, the restored capital of pre-Revolutionary Virginia, with ambivalence. The first was more than 30 years ago, when I was a college sophomore. I dimly remember touring the Governor's Palace and the powder magazine, and eating hominy for the first time. When it came to 18th-century architecture and history, I was pretty much a blank slate, and I thought Williamsburg was terrific. 
 Since then I've learned some architectural history and visited restorations on three continents. I've also read the redoubtable Ada Louise Huxtable's blistering attack on Williamsburg in "The Unreal America: Architecture and Illusion." In that 1997 book, Ms. Huxtable, a former architecture critic for The New York Times, fingers Williamsburg as the ancestor of Disneyland and theme parks in general. An inaccurate prettification of a pioneer society where things were often unjust as well as asymmetrical, it is, she said in an interview, "as phony as a nine-dollar bill."
Scholarship supports some of Ms. Huxtable's judgments. The beneficiary of John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s intense patriotism, Colonial Williamsburg was created in the 1920's and 30's as a hymn to democracy and neo-Classical good taste. Restoration was in its infancy and Williamsburg's architects and historians relied on some documentation and a lot of speculation and wishful thinking. They sculptured topiaries where the settlers had kitchen gardens. Trained in the Beaux-Arts school of impeccable regularity, the architects gave the reconstructed Capitol a symmetry it never knew. They fabricated a pastel world populated by white male gentry.
The real town was ruder, dustier and more impermanent-looking. Half its Revolutionary-era population of 1,800 were slaves, a fact largely ignored until the 1970's. Since then, Williamsburg's staff of historians and curators has been trying to redress the early misconceptions. Some of them are easier to fix than others.
But first, the mobcap issue. I am happy to report that Colonial Williamsburg made me eat my prejudice against the floppy cotton women's cap ubiquitous in the 18th century. The costume department is doing something brilliantly correct when it comes to panniers and breeches. The colors are appropriately faded or bright depending on status, the fabrics convincing, the result almost never embarrassing.
For three sultry August days, I toured Williamsburg, standing in line to enter the wigmaker's shop or the printing press or a clapboard house, following an interpreter's lantern around town in the dark while he told local ghost stories, visiting its three museums devoted to folk art, archaeology and the decorative arts. At its least demanding, Williamsburg is a sure-fire family vacation, with abundant opportunities to dress up in costumes, learn to shoot cannons, watch playlets up and down the main street and shop for replicas of Colonial stuff. At its most demanding, it's an open university of the 18th century. I was particularly curious about three things: the adjustments made to the buildings and furnishings, the gardens and the depiction of minorities.
Williamsburg's exterior has changed, but subtly, in the direction of reality. The main street is now punctuated with horse droppings; the paint on houses and picket fences has been allowed to weather. Admittedly, there's little that can be done about the Capitol's mistakenly symmetrical facade, and very few visitors will come armed with the relevant scholarly articles, so well-versed interpreters are crucial. Unfortunately, when I asked our apparently knowledgeable guide to the Capitol about the building, he assured us it was "the exact duplicate of the one built in 1699."
There are lots of things at Williamsburg that make the purist swallow hard, particularly the seamless mixing of real and reproduction. (There are 53 original buildings, commingling with 16 diabolically clever reconstructions.) But Williamsburg sees itself primarily as a history museum, a place to experience some crucial days in the 1760's and 70's, as Virginians shifted from being loyal Britons to Americans. Those who care whether a building is 250 or 50 years old (I think everyone should, but that is not a universal view) can always look in the Official Guide to Colonial Williamsburg ($6.95), where the original buildings are marked with an asterisk.
Furnishings are easier to adjust than buildings, and since the redecoration of the Governor's Palace in 1981, Williamsburg has been startling visitors who associate the 18th century only with pastels and daintiness. The Palace's elaborate antiques, brocades and Oriental rugs were replaced by less ornate furniture, brightly checked slipcovers and oilcloth floor coverings. The governor's formerly frosty bedroom was repainted bright yellow. It's a much more vivid, less predictable look, attested to by scrupulous research. Similarly, in the George Wythe House, on the Palace green, the hall has been repapered in an authentic, downright gaudy turquoise, and a wonderful upstairs bedroom is papered in big, bold purple and cream stripes.
Fascinating as these changes are to me, they don't loom large in the interpreters' remarks: Their emphasis is political and social history. After I'd peppered the interpreter in the Palace with questions about color and fabrics, she suggested I visit the DeWitt Wallace Decorative Arts Museum. Good advice. The museum, devoted to English and American decorative arts, is a treat. Here would be a fine place for a permanent exhibit about the redesigning of Williamsburg, with documentation, archaeological evidence and plenty of before-and-after photographs.
Restorations inevitably reflect their own time, and the original Colonial Williamsburg could be described as Virginia in the 1770's, seen through the lens of the 1930's. The easiest way to experience that is to visit Carter's Grove, an 18th-century plantation six miles from Williamsburg. Redesigned and enlarged by Archibald and Mollie McCrea in the 1930's, it was given to Williamsburg in the 1960's.
The original idea, to restore the house back to its 18th-century condition, was gradually relinquished. Not only would it have been horrendously expensive, but Williamsburg's curators were also increasingly dubious about the value of such restoration. The McCreas' interpretation of the 18th century was a fine example of the Colonial Revival, a historical moment in its own right. So the plantation today is a 1930's and 40's version of the Colonial period, with the entrance hall's superb woodwork stained instead of painted white as would have been done in the 18th century, with midcentury telephones and radios, and a huge Colonial fireplace in the kitchen installed by the McCreas.
When I visited Carter's Grove, an actress portraying Mrs. McCrea was playing solitaire in the smoking room. I remarked that it looked as if it were furnished in a melange of 18th-century pieces and good reproductions, and she replied, in character, that not all her guests were as bold as I was, but that was correct. Then she proceeded to point out pieces that ranged from Jacobean to Victorian.
Like the buildings, only more so, Williamsburg's gardens were spun from facts, guesswork and romance. As Arthur Shurcliff, the mastermind of Colonial Williamsburg's landscaping, began his work in 1931, the wife of the town's mayor complained to her diary that the man had "boxwood on the brain." Indeed he did, and his elegant topiaries and hedges rely more on English and North Carolinian precedents than the actualities of Colonial Virginia.
The jewel in his crown, the gardens of the Governor's Palace, contains a holly maze for which the Williamsburg historians insisted there was no evidence. But Shurcliff won (he usually did), and the maze has been a favorite with visitors. His creations were enormously influential in the history of American gardening, and today, while some of their extravagances have been scaled back, they remain indubitably beautiful.
Because the official guide is very short on horticultural information, I bought "The Gardens of Colonial Williamsburg," by Gordon W. Chappell and M. Kent Brinkley, both Williamsburg landscape architects. Its $29.95 price was more bearable than its hardcover, 9-by-12-inch format (a portable paperback version would be welcome), but I toted it bravely on a morning's perambulation. It proved a wise investment, teaching me about the original town's formal Anglo-Dutch gardens and Shurcliff's embroideries on that theme.
THE gardens range from a schematic design that borrows from 17th-century "physick" gardens (the John Blair herb garden on Duke of Gloucester Street) to the lush, interlocking symmetries of dahoon holly and boxwood at the Bryan House (also on Duke of Gloucester Street).
The Elkanah Deane garden (on the Palace green) is a good example of a Shurcliff design that has been downscaled. Originally it included perennial borders, bulbs and numerous topiaries too ambitious for an Irish coachmaker like Deane, so the flowers have been de-emphasized. It's now a peaceful, shady garden starring eight linden trees and relaxed-looking parterres of myrtle and boxwood.
As I walked and read, like Arthur Shurcliff, I became besotted with boxwood. Although it accommodates itself to the Alice-in-Wonderland shapes of the topiary carver, left on its own in Virginia's balmy climate it grows and grows, billowing and mounding itself into cloudlike forms that can reach 12 feet high and 8 across.
Happily lost in the Brush-Everard garden's vast, 19th-century hedge, I heard men's voices near the house, which is on the Palace green, arguing the rights and wrongs of rebellion against the English and what it might mean for them. Through a gap, I could see three "slaves," their debate watched by a smattering of visitors. Eavesdropping on the Revolution, as it touched some of society's humblest members, while shielded by venerable boxwood -- it was a uniquely Williamsburg moment.
An encounter like that represents the more visible side of Williamsburg's ongoing revision, compared with the quieter fine-tuning of its buildings and gardens. Some of the rethinking of the town's social history does show up in buildings, notably the Public Hospital and the slave quarters at Carter's Grove. In the Public Hospital, visitors enter the world of the mentally ill, via a punitive 18th-century cell and a more cozy 19th-century one. A 1985 reconstruction of America's first institution devoted to mental illness, built in 1773, the hospital traces two centuries of treatment, from the ducking chair and bleeding instruments to gardening and fishing excursions.
The chink-and-daub (wood and a combination of mud, shells and grass) slave quarters at Carter's Grove -- two small rooms meant to sleep four to six slaves each, and a slightly superior foreman's house -- were recreated in 1989. On the morning I visited the dark, smoky quarters, an interpreter in work clothes gave my group a bleak introduction to, as he put it, "not just a society that owned slaves, but a society organized around slavery."
Most of Williamsburg's new attention to the non-elite comes through the interpreters and the playlets and educational programs that happen in and around the buildings all day. (Playlets and programs are listed in the daily guide, but no one visitor is likely to see them all.) The white "maid" showing us around the Raleigh Tavern was asked by a visitor if the innkeeper's slaves worked for room and board. She corrected that briskly: "They work because they're his possessions," emphasizing the last word.
The interpreters stay resolutely in character, expecting a modern audience to see 18th-century beliefs for what they were. I dropped in on a question-and-answer session with the "schoolmaster" of the local school for Indian boys, and heard him matter-of-factly describe their "typically Indian" lack of punctuality, ambition and modesty. No doubt a just representation of the 18th-century attitude, but I hoped the parents of three raptly listening boys sitting near me would clarify that afterward.
Later that day, I went to the Secretary's Office next to the Capitol, where a staff historian (not in costume) discussed the tightening vise of 18th-century slavery laws. The attendance was standing room only, a perspiring room full of whites and blacks, some with school-age children.
They could have been shopping, drinking lemonade, or touring the print shop. Instead, they were listening to a university-level lecture and asking penetrating questions about the creation of a slave society. It may not have been exactly what John D. Rockefeller Jr. intended, but it looked as if Williamsburg's commitment to democracy didn't end in the 1770's.
 
When wild boar was fast food
For hotel and restaurant reservations, admission tickets and information on Colonial Williamsburg, call (800) 447-8679.
Admission tickets, covering one to five days, range from $30 to $45. Tickets for ages 6 to 17 cost $18 and are valid for up to a week; children under 6 admitted free.
 
Hotels
The Colonial Williamsburg Foundation offers lodgings at several price levels.
The most economical, Governor's Inn, is three blocks' walk or a free shuttle bus from the Historic Area, with an outdoor swimming pool and a game room. A good-size double room rents for $91.
The Colonial Houses are rooms in a variety of buildings in the Historic Area, from taverns to a laundry. A charming room in the reconstructed Brick House Tavern, on Duke of Gloucester Street, has good reproduction furniture and a fireplace, along with air-conditioning, for $135.
The Williamsburg Lodge, just outside the Historic Area, has large rooms decorated with reproductions from the nearby Folk Art Center, several restaurants and bars, and a fitness center. Doubles: $205.
The Williamsburg Inn, the most luxurious of the foundation's lodging choices, is partly closed for renovations; reservations should be made well in advance. Doubles are $425 a night.
 
Restaurants
Colonial Williamsburg has four pleasant reconstructed Colonial taverns, with the occasional entertainment and sing-along during dinner. Unfortunately, they offer better reading than eating: the 18th-century menus are diverting, but the food only middling to good.
Dinner for two with wine at Shields Tavern on Duke of Gloucester Street, featuring scalloped crab and cornbread-stuffed quail and wild boar sausage for entrees, would cost $75. Lunch for two at the King's Arms, also on Duke of Gloucester Street, featuring a fried oyster sandwich or Norfolk pottage pie as typical main courses, washed down by cider, is about $25.
For a non-Colonial dining experience, Trellis, on Duke of Gloucester Street in Market Square, (757) 229-8610, is cleanly modern. The food is equally contemporary and a better bet than in the Colonial taverns. A typical entree is Key lime-marinated yellowfin tuna for $23.95. Their chocolate desserts are notorious, and the wine cellar is extensive. Dinner for two with wine is in the $110 range. KATHERINE ASHENBURG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carter's Grove slave quarters, rebuilt in 1989. Life-size pine carving of a girl by Asa Ames (1824-1851), at the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Museum. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times); (Colonial Williamsburg Foundation)(pg. 12); The gardens of the Governor's Palace in Williamsburg, designed in the 1930's, include a holly maze that was not typically found in Colonial Virginia.; Katrina Owens, a guide, talks to tourists in the silversmith's shop. The striped wallpaper in the George Wythe House reflects bold Colonial tastes. (Photographs by Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Map of Virginia highlights Williamsburg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (98%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



544 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 70; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Two Cheers for Sweatshops

BYLINE: By Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn; Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn, who received a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of China, are the authors of "Thunder From the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia" (Knopf), from which this article is adapted.

 BODY:
It was breakfast time, and the food stand in the village in northeastern Thailand was crowded. Maesubin Sisoipha, the middle-aged woman cooking the food, was friendly, her portions large and the price right. For the equivalent of about 5 cents, she offered a huge green mango leaf filled with rice, fish paste and fried beetles. It was a hearty breakfast, if one didn't mind the odd antenna left sticking in one's teeth.
One of the half-dozen men and women sitting on a bench eating was a sinewy, bare-chested laborer in his late 30's named Mongkol Latlakorn. It was a hot, lazy day, and so we started chatting idly about the food and, eventually, our families. Mongkol mentioned that his daughter, Darin, was 15, and his voice softened as he spoke of her. She was beautiful and smart, and her father's hopes rested on her. 
 "Is she in school?" we asked.
"Oh, no," Mongkol said, his eyes sparkling with amusement. "She's working in a factory in Bangkok. She's making clothing for export to America." He explained that she was paid $2 a day for a nine-hour shift, six days a week.
"It's dangerous work," Mongkol added. "Twice the needles went right through her hands. But the managers bandaged up her hands, and both times she got better again and went back to work."
"How terrible," we murmured sympathetically.
Mongkol looked up, puzzled. "It's good pay," he said. "I hope she can keep that job. There's all this talk about factories closing now, and she said there are rumors that her factory might close. I hope that doesn't happen. I don't know what she would do then."
He was not, of course, indifferent to his daughter's suffering; he simply had a different perspective from ours -- not only when it came to food but also when it came to what constituted desirable work.
Nothing captures the difference in mind-set between East and West more than attitudes toward sweatshops. Nike and other American companies have been hammered in the Western press over the last decade for producing shoes, toys and other products in grim little factories with dismal conditions. Protests against sweatshops and the dark forces of globalization that they seem to represent have become common at meetings of the World Bank and the World Trade Organization and, this month, at a World Economic Forum in Australia, livening up the scene for Olympic athletes arriving for the competition. Yet sweatshops that seem brutal from the vantage point of an American sitting in his living room can appear tantalizing to a Thai laborer getting by on beetles.
Fourteen years ago, we moved to Asia and began reporting there. Like most Westerners, we arrived in the region outraged at sweatshops. In time, though, we came to accept the view supported by most Asians: that the campaign against sweatshops risks harming the very people it is intended to help. For beneath their grime, sweatshops are a clear sign of the industrial revolution that is beginning to reshape Asia.
This is not to praise sweatshops. Some managers are brutal in the way they house workers in firetraps, expose children to dangerous chemicals, deny bathroom breaks, demand sexual favors, force people to work double shifts or dismiss anyone who tries to organize a union. Agitation for improved safety conditions can be helpful, just as it was in 19th-century Europe. But Asian workers would be aghast at the idea of American consumers boycotting certain toys or clothing in protest. The simplest way to help the poorest Asians would be to buy more from sweatshops, not less.
On our first extended trip to China, in 1987, we traveled to the Pearl River delta in the south of the country. There we visited several factories, including one in the boomtown of Dongguan, where about 100 female workers sat at workbenches stitching together bits of leather to make purses for a Hong Kong company. We chatted with several women as their fingers flew over their work and asked about their hours.
"I start at about 6:30, after breakfast, and go until about 7 p.m.," explained one shy teenage girl. "We break for lunch, and I take half an hour off then."
"You do this six days a week?"
"Oh, no. Every day."
"Seven days a week?"
"Yes." She laughed at our surprise. "But then I take a week or two off at Chinese New Year to go back to my village."
The others we talked to all seemed to regard it as a plus that the factory allowed them to work long hours. Indeed, some had sought out this factory precisely because it offered them the chance to earn more.
"It's actually pretty annoying how hard they want to work," said the factory manager, a Hong Kong man. "It means we have to worry about security and have a supervisor around almost constantly."
It sounded pretty dreadful, and it was. We and other journalists wrote about the problems of child labor and oppressive conditions in both China and South Korea. But, looking back, our worries were excessive. Those sweatshops tended to generate the wealth to solve the problems they created. If Americans had reacted to the horror stories in the 1980's by curbing imports of those sweatshop products, then neither southern China nor South Korea would have registered as much progress as they have today.
The truth is, those grim factories in Dongguan and the rest of southern China contributed to a remarkable explosion of wealth. In the years since our first conversations there, we've returned many times to Dongguan and the surrounding towns and seen the transformation. Wages have risen from about $50 a month to $250 a month or more today. Factory conditions have improved as businesses have scrambled to attract and keep the best laborers. A private housing market has emerged, and video arcades and computer schools have opened to cater to workers with rising incomes. A hint of a middle class has appeared -- as has China's closest thing to a Western-style independent newspaper, Southern Weekend.
Partly because of these tens of thousands of sweatshops, China's economy has become one of the hottest in the world. Indeed, if China's 30 provinces were counted as individual countries, then the 20 fastest-
growing countries in the world between 1978 and 1995 would all have been Chinese. When Britain launched the Industrial Revolution in the late 18th century, it took 58 years for per capita output to double. In China, per capita output has been doubling every 10 years.
In fact, the most vibrant parts of Asia are nearly all in what might be called the Sweatshop Belt, from China and South Korea to Malaysia, Indonesia and even Bangladesh and India. Today these sweatshop countries control about one-quarter of the global economy. As the industrial revolution spreads through China and India, there are good reasons to think that Asia will continue to pick up speed. Some World Bank forecasts show Asia's share of global gross domestic product rising to 55 to 60 percent by about 2025 -- roughly the West's share at its peak half a century ago. The sweatshops have helped lay the groundwork for a historic economic realignment that is putting Asia back on its feet. Countries are rebounding from the economic crisis of 1997-98 and the sweatshops -- seen by Westerners as evidence of moribund economies -- actually reflect an industrial revolution that is raising living standards in the East.
Of course, it may sound silly to say that sweatshops offer a route to prosperity, when wages in the poorest countries are sometimes less than $1 a day. Still, for an impoverished Indonesian or Bangladeshi woman with a handful of kids who would otherwise drop out of school and risk dying of mundane diseases like diarrhea, $1 or $2 a day can be a life-transforming wage.
This was made abundantly clear in Cambodia, when we met a 40-year-old woman named Nhem Yen, who told us why she moved to an area with particularly lethal malaria. "We needed to eat," she said. "And here there is wood, so we thought we could cut it and sell it."
But then Nhem Yen's daughter and son-in-law both died of malaria, leaving her with two grandchildren and five children of her own. With just one mosquito net, she had to choose which children would sleep protected and which would sleep exposed.
In Cambodia, a large mosquito net costs $5. If there had been a sweatshop in the area, however harsh or dangerous, Nhem Yen would have leapt at the chance to work in it, to earn enough to buy a net big enough to cover all her children.
For all the misery they can engender, sweatshops at least offer a precarious escape from the poverty that is the developing world's greatest problem. Over the past 50 years, countries like India resisted foreign exploitation, while countries that started at a similar economic level -- like Taiwan and South Korea -- accepted sweatshops as the price of development. Today there can be no doubt about which approach worked better. Taiwan and South Korea are modern countries with low rates of infant mortality and high levels of education; in contrast, every year 3.1 million Indian children die before the age of 5, mostly from diseases of poverty like diarrhea.
The effect of American pressure on sweatshops is complicated. While it clearly improves conditions at factories that produce branded merchandise for companies like Nike, it also raises labor costs across the board. That encourages less well established companies to mechanize and to reduce the number of employees needed. The upshot is to help people who currently have jobs in Nike plants but to risk jobs for others. The only thing a country like Cambodia has to offer is terribly cheap wages; if companies are scolded for paying those wages, they will shift their manufacturing to marginally richer areas like Malaysia or Mexico.
Sweatshop monitors do have a useful role. They can compel factories to improve safety. They can also call attention to the impact of sweatshops on the environment. The greatest downside of industrialization is not exploitation of workers but toxic air and water. In Asia each year, three million people die from the effects of pollution. The factories springing up throughout the region are far more likely to kill people through the chemicals they expel than through terrible working conditions.
By focusing on these issues, by working closely with organizations and news media in foreign countries, sweatshops can be improved. But refusing to buy sweatshop products risks making Americans feel good while harming those we are trying to help. As a Chinese proverb goes, "First comes the bitterness, then there is sweetness and wealth and honor for 10,000 years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: No sweat? Chinese workers, willing to put in long hours, are helping to revive the Asian economy. (Erica Lansner/Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (52%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (52%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (52%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GARMENT WORKERS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); OLYMPICS (60%); 

PERSON: MONGKOL LATLAKORN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



545 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2565 words

HEADLINE: Where All the Town's a Stage

BYLINE: By SHERRY MARKER; SHERRY MARKER lives in New England.

 BODY:
AT Strawbery Banke in Portsmouth, N.H., costumed role players and interpreters encourage visitors to eavesdrop on three centuries of daily life, from the first settlement here in 1630 to the museum's foundation in 1958. The 1630 settlement took its name from the wild berries that grew along the banks of the Piscataqua River, but the settlers were less interested in the site's sylvan pleasures than in its economic possibilities. In 1653 Strawbery Banke changed its name to Portsmouth, trumpeting that "We are at the river's mouth and our port is as good as any in the land." Today's Strawbery Banke, which calls itself an outdoor history museum, preserves the original spelling of the first settlement's name.
Throughout the 17th and 18th centuries, Portsmouth's sea captains sped cargos of lumber and cod across the Atlantic and throughout the Caribbean. Local carpenters made everything from the clipper ships to the boxes that held the cod. Prosperous sea captains and merchants built themselves handsome homes overlooking the waters that lapped the busy docks. But, when shipping declined in the 19th century, so did Portsmouth. As waterways silted up, and finally were filled in altogether, Portsmouth's oldest neighborhood was dismissively nicknamed Puddle Dock. 
 After World War II, greater Portsmouth perceived the proliferating junkyards and tenaments of Puddle Dock as unwelcome eyesores. By the late 1950's, the entire 30-acre neighborhood was scheduled for the wholesale destruction then euphemistically called urban renewal. Fortunately, some local citizens were incensed at the thought that the Revolutionary War-era houses visited by George Washington, Lafayette and John Paul Jones might be razed. The preservationists bought the 10 central acres of Puddle Dock, and Strawbery Banke was reborn as a history museum. Now, Strawbery Banke draws some 60,000 visitors a year, and has been an important factor in the revitalization of Portsmouth.
Strawbery Banke's 50 guides and six to eight costumed role players use everything from the leaded diamond-paned windows in the 17th-century Sherburne House to the gas chandelier in the elegant 19th-century Goodwin Mansion and the ration books in the World War II mom-and-pop Abbott Store to create "a neighborhood where the past is forever present." The 40 mostly wood frame buildings that line Strawbery Banke's unpaved streets range in color from white to deep green, red and slate blue, with a variety of yellows and browns. Nine buildings are furnished as 18th- and 19th-century homes; others contain crafts, architectural and archaeological displays, while yet others await restoration.
Gardens with 18th-century medicinal herbs, Victorian flower beds, and the Kentucky Wonder pole beans of a World War II Victory garden grow where archaeological evidence, family letters and memories say they originally grew. Gardens and buildings, ranging from the 17th-century timber frame Sherburne House to a 20th-century cinder block garage, flank the central green that was a deep cove lined with docks until the early 1900's.
When I visited Strawbery Banke last May, I particularly wanted to see two new exhibits: the Shapiro and Aldrich Houses. The Shapiro House, which opened in 1997, looks at the immigrant experience by focusing on the Shapiro family, which lived here in a late 18th-century house from 1909 to 1928. The Aldrich House, which reopened in May after two years of extensive restoration, recreates the atmosphere of the boyhood home of the writer Thomas Bailey Aldrich (1836-1907). I also wanted to revisit some of my favorite Strawbery Banke spots, so I allowed myself to wander the streets lined with flowering pear trees, stopping to watch a cooper making barrel staves at the Dinsmore shop, ogling the handsome slip-decorated stoneware made and sold at the museum pottery, and buying a copy of Aldrich's 1869 novel "The Story of a Bad Boy" at the excellent museum shop.
I couldn't resist stopping at the house that for me encapsulates Strawbery Banke: the Drisco House on Puddle Lane. Step through the front door of this 18th-century frame house and turn right and you find yourself in the 1790's Shapley Shop. Cross the hall, and you'll be in a 1950's parlor that recreates a home from the period when Puddle Dock became the Strawbery Banke Museum.
When I entered Mr. Shapley's shop, the costumed (and pigtailed) role player portraying the retired sea captain turned shopkeeper inquired where I had journeyed from that day. When I replied "Massachusetts," Mr. Shapley wanted to know whether I had sailed over from Boston. After we worked out the details of my journey, I expressed surprise at the lemons and limes for sale. Mr. Shapley asked whether I had not heard that a clipper had just put in from the Antilles.
As Mr. Shapley spoke, I realized that I could faintly hear the voices of my childhood idols Dale Evans and Roy Rogers. Sure enough, when I said good-bye to Mr. Shapley and stepped across the Drisco House front hall, I found myself in a 1950's living room, with Roy, Dale and Trigger on the screen of a substantial black and white television console. From the linoleum floor covering and huge ash trays on floor stands, every detail precisely evoked the era of antimacassars. When I told an interpreter that I could almost smell my grandfather's Old Gold cigarettes, she told me that the living room had been arranged so that everyone could see the television -- and have an ash tray within easy reach.
That 1950's living room gave me a severe case of nostalgia, so I headed along the dirt road to the World War II-era Abbott Store. There, I was greeted by a dead ringer for Rosie the Riveter, who told me that she was waiting for the bus to the Naval Yard. "My husband's not too happy about my working there," she confided, fiddling with her welder's goggles, "but there's four of us ladies there now with so many men away." When she saw me eyeing the Chiclets in a glass display case she said, "Guess that's the last we'll see of them. Now that the Philippines have fallen to the Japanese there's no more gum coming out to make Chiclets."
From the Abbott Store it was an easy stroll along Jefferson Street to the substantial 18th-century Thomas Bailey Aldrich House, which became Portsmouth's first museum house when the writer's widow created the Thomas Bailey Aldrich Memorial here in 1908. When the house had to be closed for structural repairs in 1998, Strawbery Banke made the decision to undertake a complete reinstallation. At present, the dining room and kitchen are complete, with the rest of the house to follow over the next few years. The undertaking is enormous: more than 600 items in the dining room and kitchen alone had to be removed, cataloged, cleaned and often repaired.
Before all those items could be returned to their original places, an important decision had to be made: should Mrs. Aldrich's original vision of the house be honored or should the reinstallation convey a more historically accurate version of the Aldrich House?
By all accounts (including her own) Mrs. Aldrich, a quintessential literary widow, tried in 1908 to recreate every detail of her husband's boyhood home, drawing on her own memory of the house and on Aldrich's heavily autobiographical "Story of a Bad Boy." And therein lies the problem, since much that Mrs. Aldrich restored may originally have existed only in the world Aldrich created for his scalawag hero.For example, the curator John Mayer suspects that the widow Aldrich may have allowed the strong forces of Colonial revivalism to persuade her to furnish a 19th-century kitchen with venerable Colonial cooking ware, including old-fashioned tin hearth ovens.
After much soul-searching, Strawbery Banke decided to honor and recreate the 1908 vision of the Aldrich House as an example of how people then saw, and wished to see, the past.
Already in 1908, Portsmouth was experiencing a wave of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe, and many long-time residents feared that the old ways were threatened. In short, not everyone would have been delighted at the news in 1909 that the Shapiros, a Jewish immigrant family from Russia, had moved into a late 18th-century white frame house virtually across the street from the Aldrich House.
The costumed role player who portrays Mrs. Shapiro looked up from grating horseradish and greeted me with a "Shalom" as I stepped into her kitchen. As she set her glass of tea aside and smoothed the apron that covered her house dress, she told me that she had just finished planting her lettuces and peas, soon to be followed by beets for borscht. She took a moment to show me her meat and her milk dishes, and to explain how she kept kosher, before turning to her massive cast-iron Beauty Hub coal stove.
"I must be careful making the applesauce not to leave it too long on a too-hot burner," she said. "If you're not careful, applesauce becomes apple butter -- not a problem unless you're making latkes and need applesauce."
As mothers will, Mrs. Shapiro told me about her daughter, Mollie, who was worrying her parents by objecting to speaking Yiddish at home. "My Italian neighbors have the same problem," she said. "Their children want only to be American and not learn the old languages that were good enough for us."
As other visitors entered the Shapiro House, I wandered off into the dining room, and listened to the audio recreation of the family's weekly Sabbath meal, and browsed upstairs, where I saw Mollie's collection of thumb-size china penny dolls, her toy coal stove and books for her Hebrew school lessons.
When I came back downstairs, Mrs. Shapiro was telling a group of schoolchildren about Mollie's household chores. "When my Mollie comes home from school," she said, "she'll take the pan of melted water from under the icebox outside for water for the chickens."
I was almost out the door, when I thought of one more question. "Those chickens," I said. "I haven't seen them or even heard a peep out of them."
Mrs. Shapiro was ready. "On a day like this when it's still a bit chilly, the chickens like to huddle under the porch. When it's hot, they go there to get out of the sun. One day a little boy asked the question you just asked, and when I told him about the chickens, he ran outside and crawled under the porch. When he came back in, he said, 'I saw them, I saw the chickens under the porch.' "
That ability to make the invisible visible, the past present, is what Strawbery Banke is all about.
 
Three centuries: barrel staves to ration books
 
Getting There
Strawbery Banke, (603) 433-1100, www.strawberybanke.org, in Portsmouth, N.H., is a five-hour drive from New York and an hour north of Boston. It is best reached by taking Exit 7 off Route I-95 and following the green Strawbery Banke signs.
 
Planning a Trip
The museum is open daily 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. through October. For the first time this year, from Nov. 1 to April 23, there will be guided walking tours beginning at the Dunaway Museum Shop; call the museum shop, (603) 433-1114, or the main number for times. Admission is $12 (off-season tours $7); seniors $11 (off season $6); ages 7 to 17 $8 (off season $4); family (two adults and two children under 17) $28. Tickets valid for two consecutive days.
Coming events include Decorating the Sukkah, Oct. 12; Grand Old Portsmouth Brewer's Festival, Oct. 14 and 15; Hogwart's Halloween, Oct. 30; Annual Candlelight Stroll, Dec. 2 and 3 and 9 and 10; and an American Girl's Christmas, Dec. 16 and 17 and 27 to 30. Next year's theme will be Parlors, Pantries and Parties featuring furniture and ceramics and their use in the social life of Portsmouth.
Visitors who find that Strawbery Banke whets their appetite for local history may want to buy the Portsmouth Harbour Trail guide, a historical walking tour of the town, and the Portsmouth Black Heritage Trail, each $2 at the Greater Portsmouth Chamber of Commerce, 500 Market Street, (603) 436-1118; open Monday to Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
 
Where to Stay
The 202-room Sheraton Harborside Portsmouth, (603) 431-2300, (800) 325-3535, fax (603) 431-7805, is a 10-minute walk from Strawbery Banke. There's an indoor pool and some rooms have harbor views, while others overlook an interior courtyard or the parking lot and town. Doubles: $129 to $179.
Portsmouth has a number of pleasant bed-and-breakfast inns within easy walking distance of Strawbery Banke. The three-bedroom Oracle House Inn and Gardens, 38 Marcy Street, (603) 433-8827, is furnished with family heirlooms (the family has been here for 12 generations) and overlooks Strawbery Banke itself. Doubles $150.
The nine-bedroom Bow Street Inn, 121 Bow Street, (603) 431-7760, fax (603) 433-1680, is on the second floor of a restored 19th-century brewery that now houses the Seacoast Repertory Theater. Rooms overlook the harbor or the 19th-century St. John's Church. Doubles $119 to $155.
The Sise Inn, 40 Court Street, telephone and fax (603) 433-1200, is a Queen Anne mansion with marvelous oak woodwork, a Victorian parlor, fireplaces in most rooms, private bathrooms -- and Jacuzzi baths in several suites. Doubles $145 to $220.
There are several motels just outside Portsmouth, at the Interstate Traffic Circle at Exit 5 off I-95. The Wynwood Hotel and Suites, telephone and fax (603) 436-7600, has indoor and outdoor pools. Doubles from $89 through October and during the holidays; winter rates from $59. You will have to use your car to get in and out of Portsmouth, and may want to use the High-Hanover Parking Facility (50 cents an hour).
 
Where to Eat
Dinner prices are for an entree and a glass of wine or beer.
You can start eating right on the Strawbery Banke grounds, at The Cafe on the Banke, 61 Washington Street, (603) 436-8803, open daily 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., when the museum is open. The menu features sandwiches ($4.95), salads ($4.25) and snacks (pie or cake $2.95) that can be eaten indoors or at picnic tables.
Open daily from 11 a.m. to 11:30 p.m., the perpetually crowded Stock Pot, 53 Bow Street, (603) 431-1851, has great harbor views and serves pastas, fish and vegetarian dishes; fish and chips, with a draft Sam Adams, costs $13.65.
Roxanne's, formerly Karen's, 105 Daniel Street, (603) 431-1948, is open for breakfast and lunch Monday to Friday; brunch 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Saturday and Sunday; and dinner 5:30 to 9:30 p.m. Thursday to Saturday. Terrific eggs Benedict; inventive pasta, fish and vegetarian dishes; indulgent desserts. There's an outdoor patio. Dinner for one with a glass of wine, from $20; reservations recommended for dinner.
The upstairs wine bar at Lindbergh's Crossing, 29 Ceres Street, (603) 431-0887, opens daily at 4 p.m. and the restaurant is open daily from 5:30 p.m. There's a harbor view upstairs, handsome brick and stone walls upstairs and down, and the entrees range from couscous with fruits de mer and seared duck breast to the somewhat eclectic free-range Southern fried rabbit with egg noodles and country gravy. Dinner for one with a glass of wine, from $25; reservations recommended.
Wherever you eat, save room for a vanilla and ginger ice cream cone ($2.20) at Annabelle's, 49 Ceres Street, (603) 436-3400, open 10 a.m. until about 10 p.m. to mid-November.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Along Whidden Place, part of a history museum that aims to create "a neighborhood where the past is forever present." (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. 24); Barbara Ann Pastor, in the kitchen of the Shapiro House. John T. Emery, at the Drisco House. Cooper R. Raiselis at the Dinsmore woodworking shop.; Carriage passes the Lowd House, which dates from 1810. The dining room at the Chase House, built circa 1762. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Map of New Hampshire highlights Strawbery Banke.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RIVERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HISTORY (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GARDENING (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



546 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Oil Price Rise Heightens Dismay Over the Euro

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
TWO years ago, Americans arriving in Paris or Brussels or Frankfurt would routinely be shocked at the high cost of nearly everything: dreary hotels that cost nearly $200 a night; $10 to develop a roll of film; and clothes that often cost 50 percent more than in the United States.
But thanks to the seemingly endless decline of the euro, the common currency adopted by 12 European countries, things here are cheaper in dollars than they have been in years. The euro has lost more than 25 percent of its value against the dollar since its launch in January 1999, and it has repeatedly defied expert predictions that it was ripe for a rebound. 
 From its opening value of about $1.17, the euro has fallen to one record low after another, and was down to 85 cents early last week. Most of this is invisible to ordinary consumers, who will not be able to use euro bills and coins until 2002.
But the decline is very real, because national currencies like the French franc and Italian lira are locked to the euro and mirror its movements exactly.
On balance, the euro's decline translates into a huge discount for American travelers in Europe because their dollars are worth so much more. Major airlines report that their trans-Atlantic flights were packed solid throughout the peak vacation period as Americans appear to have jumped at the prospect of cheaper prices (in dollars) from Spain to Finland.
"For European tourism, it is the best we have had in years," said Walter Leu, executive director of the European Travel Commission in Brussels, an umbrella group of national travel organizations from Europe.
Mr. Leu estimated that 12 million Americans would visit Europe this year and spend about $25 billion. That is a 6 percent increase in the number of travelers and a 10 percent increase in the amount of money they are spending, compared with last year.
But as has become clear in the last few weeks, there is no such thing as a purely "good" exchange rate, even for American tourists. Thanks in part to the euro's weakness, the price of oil has climbed even more sharply in Europe than in the United States and led to protests that made gasoline hard to find in parts of England, France and Belgium.
Soaring gasoline prices caused widespread anger in the United States, too, of course. But the European problem was different in two big ways.
The first difference is that oil is priced and paid for in dollars on world markets. So when the euro declined at the same time that oil prices were surging, Europeans were faced with a compounded price increase because their currency bought far fewer dollars than before.
The second big difference is taxes. Across Europe, including Britain, gasoline taxes account for as much as 75 percent of the price that consumers pay. That is why Britain, which did not adopt the euro and has not seen the pound decline as much against the dollar, nevertheless produced the angriest gasoline protests in Europe.
But the protests are dying down, as governments have vowed to provide at least some relief to truckers and other key groups. Assuming the blockades continue to be disbanded, gas station supplies should return to normal.
To be sure, airline prices are starting to climb in Europe as a result of higher jet-fuel prices. KLM, the Dutch airline, recently said it would raise prices by 4 percent to offset higher fuel prices. But most of the big airlines have held back so far, in part because they are under increasingly intense pressure from scores of new budget-priced airlines.
For all kinds of products, prices vary considerably within Europe. Great Britain is more expensive than most parts of the United States, because the British pound is much stronger than the euro and because London is in the midst of a long-running economic boom as a financial center. Thanks to phenomenal economic growth for the last five years, Ireland has also experienced substantial inflation and is expensive, even though it is part of the Euro zone.
The big question is whether the euro will recover any time soon. Eighteen months ago, most economists were predicting that the euro would settle at well above $1.10. Now, few think it will get anywhere close to parity with the dollar in the next year, and some predict it will sink as low as 80 cents.
But given how wrong the expert predictions have been so far, anything is possible.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Britons don't have euro woes, but they have high gas taxes. (Ferran Paredes/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); BELGIUM (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (91%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (77%); FINLAND (72%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); BELGIUM (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (91%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (77%); FINLAND (72%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EURO (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); GASOLINE (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); AIRLINES (65%); FUEL TAX (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



547 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 57; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 9-24-00;
What They Were Thinking

BYLINE: By Catherine Saint Louis

 BODY:

Patrick Sloan, Charlotte Border, Jane Klein, Houston, Aug. 18, 2000
 
Sloan (center): "We were at Little Woodrow's for the pre-party of Bellaire High School's 10th reunion. You go to the reunion to catch up on gossip, just like in high school. Gossip is gossip. You want to hear the dirt. A lot of girls that all the boys had crushes on in high school were all happily married. As for the boys, I definitely noticed that sense of, 'Are we at that age?' It's that old high school metaphor: once one guy asks someone to the prom, then everybody has to run out and ask. We were mad when our first friend got married. Not because of her -- we liked her -- but because he was putting pressure on all the other guys." 

Border (second from right): "Everything was very superficial. The people who come to reunions are not 'I'm unemployed and still living with my parents' kind of people. So you hear the same things from everybody: 'Oh, I've got a great job.' It seems like such a cookie-cutter type of thing. The smartest guy in the class -- you know what? He's a doctor. And the cheerleaders were pregnant. I think the people who did have some good scoop -- people who were divorced or had big things happen -- didn't come to the reunion and didn't get to talk about it. And nobody wanted to dance. They did play Vanilla Ice, though; that was probably one of the better moments."
 
Klein (right): "Everything was different than I thought it would be. For one thing, not that many people showed up. I would have to think that the people who did come were there because they were happier, they had something to show off, they had kids or a great husband. Maybe the ones who didn't come are the ones who didn't have a whole lot to say. So I was surprised at how many of the people in school who were maybe less popular were there. There were more of those types of people there than the popular crowd. It was nice because you would talk to all of them. It wasn't like you avoided any of them." Interviews by Catherine Saint Louis
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jennifer D. Small)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); TEXAS, USA (73%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARRIAGE (76%); 

PERSON: PATRICK SLOAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



548 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Wilmington Adapts After a Mainstay Cuts Back

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del.

 BODY:
WHEN the DuPont Company said in early 1999 that it was selling three of its buildings, about 10 percent of the city's office space, the announcement shook the community to its industrial foundations. But a vibrant economy has helped smooth the transition.
The $25 million sale of the three headquarters buildings -- known as the Nemours, Brandywine and Tatnall buildings -- to a development partnership had some residents of this company town wondering whether the mainstay citizen for almost a century was packing up. 
 The sale capped a decade of real estate divestiture by E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, the country's largest chemical concern. As the company strives to reinvent itself for the 21st century, in part as a global life sciences business, real estate investments are not felt to be the best use of corporate assets said William A. Sullivan, a former real estate manager at DuPont. All that remains in DuPont's real estate portfolio of its headquarters complex is the DuPont Building, built in stages beginning in 1906 and one of the country's earliest multipurpose buildings, with restaurants, theater, hotel, shops and offices.
"It makes sense from a business point of view for DuPont not to have such a large headquarters, but for the city it's sad," said Carol E. Hoffecker, a historian and the author of "Corporate Capital: Wilmington in the Twentieth Century." "It seems like such a dramatic symbol of the company's changing relationship with the community."
But with more than half of a $100 million redevelopment of the buildings completed and DuPont leasing back a big part of the Brandywine Building, city promoters see the divestiture as a necessary regeneration. At a million square feet, City Center @ Wilmington, as the project is called, is by far the largest redevelopment of office space in the city's history.
With a New Economy name, City Center will add 100,000 square feet of retail space, 890,000 square feet of Class A office space, 75 apartments and 674 parking spaces to the city. "It's brought in new blood, new capital and DuPont stayed," said William C. Wyer, managing director of the Wilmington Renaissance Corporation, an economic development group made up of city officials and top business leaders.
From a leasing standpoint, the timing could not be better. Tenants have been having difficulty getting big blocks of space, said Daniel R. Reeder, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis in Wilmington. The city's overall downtown vacancy rate is 5 percent, but it drops to 4 percent for Class A space -- large newer buildings with amenities and in good locations.
Because plans call for a retail and residential mix, City Center is expected to transform 11th Street.
For decades, this main thoroughfare from Interstate 95 to the downtown's Rodney Square has been without significant public spaces other than the Hotel du Pont and the center lobby of the Nemours Building. Office workers did not have to go outside since the buildings are connected by underground tunnels. This led architects to criticize Wilmington for its lack of human scale.
"It's big, cold stuff," said Charles M. Weymouth, owner of Weymouth Architects and Planners in Wilmington. "There's no relief, no landscaping, just the repetitiveness of windows, one floor to the next."
Adding colorful awnings and flags, huge landscape planters and lighting will make the area feel more hospitable, said Robert E. Buccini, a partner in Wilmington's Buccini/Pollin Group, which signed the deal with DuPont. Barrow Street Capital L.L.C., a private New York real estate investment company, is providing the financing.
The 75 apartments in a section of the Nemours Building should also go a long way toward making Wilmington a round-the-clock city, Mr. Sullivan said.
The 18-story Brandywine Building, built in 1972 on a triangular plot, was the first to be renovated as offices. Kling Lindquist of Philadelphia, the original designer of the D-shaped building, was hired as project architect.
CITY CENTER was given a boost at the start when DuPont agreed to take 266,000 square feet for 10 years in the Brandywine Building, which is still topped by DuPont's oval logo, in neon. Last month, the company moved 649 people into the renovated space. Several law firms have signed leases on remaining space, including Young, Conaway, Stargatt & Taylor.
A steakhouse is expected to open this fall in space that was formerly a bank branch. The steakhouse, to be called the Vault, is operated by two restaurateurs who opened a Mediterranean restaurant at Market Street Mall in Wilmington last year.
It will have dining room seating for 115, a bar with space for live entertainment and a mezzanine lounge with seating for 30. There will also be tables for outdoor dining between the Brandywine and Nemours Buildings.
Investors in the restaurant include Charles M. Cawley, head of MBNA America Bank, a giant credit card bank that moved its headquarters to Wilmington in the early 1990's, as well as two other top MBNA executives. The investment is a message not lost on a city accustomed to being dominated by DuPont.
While DuPont was selling off buildings in the 1990's and cutting its work force, MBNA put up five buildings on the northeast side of Rodney Square and employs thousands there. "I think it certainly has demonstrated very powerfully the transformation Wilmington has been undergoing from a DuPont to MBNA town," Ms. Hoffecker said.
The third building that DuPont sold -- the Tatnall Building on 11th Street, across from the Brandywine Building -- was demolished to make way for a parking garage. DuPont had used the 90,000-square-foot building as a mail center.
Tunnels will be available to Nemours and Brandywine tenants, while a sky bridge that connects Nemours Building to the DuPont Building will be torn down for security reasons, Mr. Buccini said.
Now the developers have turned their attention to perhaps the toughest part of the project, the 14-story Nemours Building, built in stages from 1935 to 1942. Earlier this month, the Buccini/Pollin Group began gutting the 600,000-square-foot building.
The Juniper Financial Corporation, a four-month old Internet financial services company founded by several former executives at the Bank One Corporation, has already leased 65,000 square feet. The traditional hallways lined with marble and individual office doors will give way to open floors that characterize the information age.
An apartment wing will be carved out of 124,000 square feet on the corner facing 10th and Orange Streets. It will have its own entrance lobby separate from the office lobby. Up to half of the 75 apartments could be leased for corporate use, with DuPont agreeing to lease eight apartments.
The floor plans call for studios to two-bedroom units. Rental rates for the apartments will be firmed up nearer the opening in 2001, but a one-bedroom apartment is expected to cost approximately $1,000 a month.
Part of the plan is to have the Hotel du Pont supply room service, dry-cleaning pickup and other amenities for apartment dwellers.
The hotel will also cater to office tenants. A small auditorium in Nemours could be converted to a movie theater, Mr. Buccini said. Negotiations are under way for a first-floor restaurant in Nemours.
The developers decided not to rename the buildings, believing their DuPont heritage was an important part of the city's history. Indeed, three du Pont cousins -- Alfred I., Pierre S. and T. Coleman -- single-handedly transformed the city from an aging industrial hub to an office center when they made the decision in 1904 to build the company headquarters in Wilmington rather than in New York or Philadelphia.
As the major shipbuilding and railroad-car manufacturing industries waned, the du Pont cousins built a new business that earned Wilmington the name Chemical Capital of the World.
"Wilmington has been fortunate that when one of its Old Economy businesses has been on the rocks, something new comes along," Ms. Hoffecker said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two headquarters buildings sold by DuPont: the Brandywine Building, left, has been renovated as offices, with a steakhouse in space that was a former bank branch; the Nemours Building will have an apartment wing in addition to redesigned office space. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Delaware shows the location of Wilmington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); CBG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (95%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); CBRE GROUP INC (57%); CITY CENTER (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY CENTER (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DELAWARE, USA (95%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); HISTORY (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



549 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
For Newark's South Ward, Homes on Vacant Lots

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
THEY number in the hundreds, the scattered vacant lots that like ugly bruises mar the streets of this city's South Ward, which sits in the shadow of Newark International Airport. But that situation may soon change.
Under a redevelopment plan approved by the Newark City Council last spring a majority of the lots -- 680 of 923 -- are to be redeveloped into mostly two-family homes, with some one-or three-family houses. The 680 lots, of varying sizes, are to yield 625 homes. 
 The city owns the lots -- some contiguous ones make up nearly entire blocks -- and has designated 17 private developers for the rebuilding.
(Two-thirds of the remaining lots are owned by the city's Public Housing Authority and are to be used for public housing. Most of the other lots are to be used for industrial development.)
All the homes are to be developed in the next two to three years without any public money. They will be sold at market-rate prices, generally ranging from $135,000 to $200,000, with the three-family homes rising to $249,900. Potential buyers will not be subject to any income eligibility requirements.
Planners said that the houses would be affordable to families with annual household incomes of $50,000 to $60,000 and would draw interest from both Newark residents and others. Among the reasons cited for the interest is the area's location next to several highways, including I-78 and I-95, the New Jersey Turnpike. The local Routes 1-9 and 22 are nearby as well.
The city's hope is that the housing will help bring new economic life to the neighborhood, which is still struggling to recover from the flight of residents and businesses after the 1967 race riots.
"It's been 30 years in the coming," Donald Bradley, who represents the South Ward and is the president of the Newark City Council, said of the redevelopment plan. "Except for some sporadic building of low- and moderate-income housing there has been no real new development in the South Ward since the 1967 disturbance."
The new housing is the centerpiece of the South Ward redevelopment plan. Mr. Bradley, a 36-year resident of the neighborhood, said that future phases included renovating abandoned buildings as well as helping existing homeowners improve their homes. There are also plans for a new high school and an athletic center. An industrial park, with 100,000 square feet of space, was also recently completed in the neighborhood, at Bergen Street and Hawthorne Avenue, and up to 80,000 more square feet of space is planned for the park. "This development is a jump start," Mr. Bradley said, "but in order for the neighborhood to come back we can't just build new housing, or just low- and moderate-income housing."
Mayor Sharpe James, who lives in the South Ward, said the plan was "all part of a holistic approach" to reviving Newark, as well as to increasing the homeownership rate in the city, which has risen since 1984 to 26 percent from 16 percent. The goal is 50 percent, Mayor James said, without indicating a deadline.
The new market-rate homes in the South Ward, the mayor said, are part of the city's plan to encourage the development of 2,000 such homes citywide this year. He said that to ensure that the South Ward houses are built, the lots will be released to the developers in clusters, and the developers will be required to build the homes in those clusters within a year to 18 months.
"If they succeed they will get more lots," he said, noting that after the South Ward, the intent is to move into the West Ward.
Of the 680 lots in the South Ward, Summit Real Estate Developers of Westfield is to develop 302 into up to 280 mostly two-family homes, with possibly a few one-family houses. The rest of the lots are divided among the remaining 16 developers, including A&A Construction of Colonia and Triple A Developers of Newark. Most of the developers have signed contracts with the city and are moving forward to secure site plan approvals for the homes from the city.
Model homes are expected to begin to take shape as early as next month, with initial construction to start before year's end. Some of the houses will be traditionally constructed, while others will be developed using panelized construction or manufactured in a factory and assembled on site.
Alfred L. Faiella, the city's deputy mayor for housing and economic development, said that to keep the homes affordable the city would sell most of the developers the lots, which average 33 by 100 feet, for $1 a square foot, or $3,300 each. Summit, which is planning to put up modular homes, has agreed to pay more.
BECAUSE most of the homes are two-family, he said, the rental apartments will provide buyers with income to help with mortgage payments and other expenses.
Real estate taxes on the houses, Mr. Faiella said, will be abated for the first five years, reducing them on average to $3,000 a year from the $4,500 to $5,000 they would be without the abatement. The abatement may also be extended for up to 20 more years, he said. And mortgages at or below market-rate interest and with low or zero down payments will also be made available to qualified buyers through several banks.
The sale of the lots is expected to generate about $5 million, and their redevelopment to bring in about $1.8 million in tax revenues a year to Newark, Mr. Faiella said. He said the lots had reverted to city ownership because of nonpayment of taxes. The tidy row houses that once stood on the lots were razed long ago.
Through the 1960's the South Ward was primarily a residential neighborhood where many professional families lived in grand houses, mainly in the Clinton Hill and Weequahic areas. Today, many middle-class black families live in well-kept parts of the neighborhood. Other parts, such as the far eastern sector, where many of the vacant lots exist, have suffered greatly from abandonment.
In recent years, as the national and state economies blossomed, Newark's long-awaited revival started to take hold. Much activity has centered on the city's downtown, with the construction of its new performing arts center, a minor league baseball stadium and the promise of more, including a sports arena, residences and shops.
The development push has filtered into the neighborhoods, primarily the Central Ward, which was ground zero for the riots as well as hub for much of the city's high-rise public housing. Many of those towers have been or are being demolished and replaced with low-rise town houses. That replacement program, along with new construction, has brought some 1,400 new housing units into the Central Ward over the last two years, Mr. Faiella said.
The concentration of residential activity in that area was done by design to "show enough of an impact to start a ripple effect in commercial development," he said, pointing to possible plans by Kmart to open a store on an 11-acre triangular site bounded by Jones, Springfield and South Orange Avenues. The objective is to have the same thing happen in the South Ward, he said.
That approach appealed to the principals of Summit Real Estate Developers. "Bringing so many houses to an unproven area will create a critical mass and, in turn, reduce the risk," said Arthur Fefferman, a partner in Summit with Peter Weissbrod, Stuart Fuchsman and Richard Goldberger.
The partners are no strangers to such projects. They are developing 69 scattered lots in Plainfield into one- and two-family homes and plan to build similar projects in other cities. Mr. Fefferman said the partners were also drawn to Newark because "the city is going through a renaissance, and the demand for housing is strong, but there is a lack of supply, especially of affordable housing."
The two-family homes, generally with 2,400 to 2,500 square feet, will cost $184,900 to $200,000, depending on house and lot size. The one-family houses, with 1,350 square feet, will sell for $149,900. They will take shape in 18 clusters, each with 7 to 20 homes. All the houses are two stories, with garage, and will be built in a factory, mainly by Simplex Industries of Scranton, Pa., and assembled on site. The overall cost of developing the up to 280 homes is in excess of $60 million, Mr. Fefferman said.
Mr. Faiella said Summit was designated to develop so many lots because "they have a good track record and are well financed." He added that because Summit wanted the opportunity to test selling modular homes in Newark at market prices, the developer had agreed to pay more for its 302 lots: five percent of the selling price of each home.
Mr. Fefferman said that Summit, as it has done in Plainfield, would develop two model homes to use to market the rest of the homes, which are to be built as they are sold. The model homes are to go up on Hillside Avenue at Runyon Street and are scheduled to open in mid-October.
The homes being planned by Triple A Construction and A&A Developers are to be traditional construction. Triple A is to build 33 two- and three-family homes, and A&A is to build 25, said Manny Rosa, who is a consultant for both developers and runs the Rosa Agency, a residential real estate company in Newark.
Mr. Rosa said that the two-family homes would generally have 3,000 square feet and, depending on lot size, cost from $165,000 to $224,900, and that the three-family houses would have 4,500 square feet and sell for $239,000 to $249,900. All the homes will have brick facades, either front or back balconies and one- or two-car garages.
He said that both developers are expected to start construction in January and will build the houses in phases even before they are sold. "We believe in the Newark market and that there is a demand in the South Ward for new housing from middle-class families," Mr. Rosa said. "This is a new era for the city."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of two-family home being put up in Plainfield, N.J., by Summit Real Estate Developers. It is similar to the homes Summit will be developing in Newark's South Ward. (Summit Real Estate Developers)
 
Map of New Jersey highlights South Ward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); CITIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); APPROVALS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); 

PERSON: DONALD BRADLEY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



550 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Towns Battle Over Density-Affordability Tradeoff

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
THE quiet residential town of Trumbull, founded in 1797, arguably tops the list of battle-scarred Connecticut municipalities that have lost legal skirmishes with developers of luxury housing who attempt to increase the allowable size of their projects by including lower-income apartments. These projects use a Connecticut law permitting higher density in exchange for offering some units at lower cost to people with lower incomes.
Developers whose projects were denied by Trumbull and other communities around the state have taken the towns to court under the Connecticut Affordable Housing Appeals Law of 1989, winning the right to build market-rate housing at negotiable densities that are greater than allowed by existing zoning regulations. In return, the developer sets aside a percentage of the units at below-market rates for qualified buyers or renters. 
 Almost invariably, the towns were not able to mount effective defenses, which the law limited to proof that such projects should be rejected as detrimental to the community or that the town's interests outweighed the need for moderate-income housing or that the project could not be altered to meet the town's interests.
On Oct. 1, a new amendment to the law becomes effective allowing towns that have added 2 percent to their moderate-income housing stock since 1990 to declare three-year moratoriums on construction of moderate-income housing. (After each 2 percent increase, a town may declare additional moratoriums until it reaches the state's goal of 10 percent of a town's dwellings, when it is exempt from the law.) Despite Trumbull's history of resistance, it has complied with court orders to build enough low-cost units to qualify for relief by declaring a three-year moratorium on such housing.
The term affordable applies to housing that costs up to 30 percent of the tenant's or owner's income, which cannot exceed 80 percent of the area or state median, whichever is lower. The state's median income is $66,000. In the Trumbull-Bridgeport area it is $67,700 and in the Stamford-Greenwich-Norwalk area it rises to $102,400.
Only 32 of Connecticut's 169 towns and cities have moderate-income housing of 10 percent or more. Trumbull, in eastern Fairfield County, had been one of the remaining 137 towns with little or no such housing. But during more than eight years of litigation with various developers it acquired under court orders one apartment complex and four single-family developments with a total of 312 affordable units. With 11,500 dwellings in town, 1,150 units would make up the target of 10 percent, and 312 brings it past the 2 percent level.
Over the years growing dissatisfaction with the law prompted the formation more than a year ago of Gov. John G. Rowland's Commission to Study Affordable Housing. Recommendations promulgated by the commission in February are being put into regulations by the Department of Economic and Community Development. They then must be ratified by the Legislature.
In addition to the moratoriums, the amendment contains features that may appease some opponents of the law by serving to curb development, but developers and advocates of moderate-income housing are concerned that production of such units will be curtailed when the need is high and the cost of market-rate housing is at a peak.
A report earlier this year by the Connecticut office of Fannie Mae, the nation's largest provider of mortgage funds, says that 68,000 new units are needed to meet current demand in the state and that 48,000 households pay half or more of their income for housing.
The amendment is expected to increase the number of affordable units in a development from the current 25 percent level to 30 percent. The income ceiling for half of those units would be 60 percent of the area or state median, while the rest would stay at the 80 percent ceiling. Income limits would remain in effect for 40 years, up from 30.
Some who are familiar with the efforts to deliver more affordable housing have expressed concern about some changes being brought about by the amendment. "With the increase to 30 percent of units and 40 years' duration," said Timothy Hollister, a Hartford lawyer who specializes in affordable housing law, "you are decreasing the amount of rent and reducing the amount realized from sales. In Fairfield County, with land prices going up, that is not likely to produce more affordable housing."
"Changes in the statute," said Mark Forlenza, vice president for development for the Connecticut-New York region in the Wilton office of AvalonBay Communities of Alexandria, Va., one of the most active developers in the New York City suburbs,"were definitely directed at the larger developer. They just make it harder to create an economically viable project. Originally, the affordable housing law was put in place to get around exclusionary zoning. The more they fool with it, the less affordable housing will be provided in Connecticut."
UNDER the Connecticut regulations, Mr. Forlenza said, "In some of the more affluent communities we would not even be able to build all market-rate housing because of zoning that restricts rental housing."
Resistance to the affordable housing law has been strongest in affluent suburban towns, where it is seen as an assault on the traditional independence of Connecticut's local planning and zoning commissions. Last year the law suffered its first substantial setback when state courts upheld the positions of Glastonbury, Newtown and Bridgewater against developers. The three towns had successfully argued that applications they had received for moderate-income housing under the law should be denied for reasons involving potable water, septic tanks and open space.
Opponents of the law charge that it has not been having the effect it was designed to bring about. "Developers have been coming in and zone-busting areas for windfall profits," said Kenneth S. Halaby, Trumbull's first selectman. "My own daughter makes $40,000 a year and couldn't afford an 'affordable' apartment here," he said, adding that Trumbull's teachers, firefighters and police could not afford to live in the town. "It isn't that the people don't want affordable housing," Mr. Halaby said. "They object to a well-intentioned but flawed state mandate."
Martin Shapiro, a Trumbull resident who has opposed the law from the start, said the flaws mainly involved density and unaffordability. "There are no affordables at Avalon Springs," he said, referring to the 340-unit AvalonBay apartment complex, where market-rate rents for 180 units are $1,100 to $1,900 and rents for the 68 reduced-rate units are $800 to $1,050 plus utilities. It is one of 19 similar projects built in the state by AvalonBay and described as "beautiful" by Mr. Shapiro.
But, he said, "it's a shame for the state to force the suburbs into high density." Under a 1992 court order, the town was obliged to accept the 340 units or comply with AvalonBay's original plan for 600 units.
Mr. Halaby's solution is "to discourage for-profit developers by doing it ourselves." He ended six years of litigation over a 66-unit project proposed by the nonprofit Mutual Housing Association of Stamford by striking a deal with it for two affordable housing developments. "Doing it nonprofit," Mr. Halaby said, "fills the need with units that are less expensive than any for-profit developer can build and they are 100 percent affordable."
According to Larry Kluetsch, executive director of the Mutual Housing Association, the project was negotiated down from 66 to 43 town houses in seven two-story buildings and it will break ground in March on a six-acre site. Completion is scheduled for the end of 2001 at prices ranging from $105,000 for one-bedroom, one-bath units to $150,000 for three bedrooms and two baths. Garages, patios, landscaping, the standard number of kitchen appliances and a community clubhouse are included. Buyers will get their own mortgages and form an association to maintain landscaping and common areas.
With strong town support for the project, Mutual Housing has obtained site acquisition and construction financing from People's Bank, and an application for subsidies is pending at the state's Department of Economic and Community Development. The Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, a nonprofit organization chartered by Congress in 1978 to assist other nonprofit groups on housing projects, will be a joint-venture partner with Mutual Housing.
The second project, to be undertaken at an undetermined date, is to be a 25-unit complex for older adults on a 3.4-acre site given to the town by the state.
Mutual Housing has created 117 units of low-cost housing in Stamford and 76 units in Bridgeport since 1990. Median rents for the group's homes in both towns are $600 to $700 a month. Mr. Kluetsch believes that the Trumbull development will be a model. "Planned development with the town as an active partner," he said, "gives the town more control and can create 100-percent affordable units, moving toward more affordables and a moratorium."
Mr. Hollister, who represented Mutual Housing for six years in its bid to build in Trumbull, said: "For-profit developers are not going to follow that model, and nonprofits can't follow anything else. It may not be a breakthrough, but it's a good result for everyone concerned."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A nonprofit organization plans to develop 43 affordable town houses in Trumbull in seven two-story buildings. (4Mutual Housing Association of Stamford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CITIES (73%); HISTORY (69%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



551 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS;
Changing the Philanthropic Model

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ARMONK

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA elementary school students are learning grammar with software that listens and talks back. North Carolina parents are holding confidential chats with teachers about high school seniors online. And Texas school administrators are planning curriculums with the click of a mouse.
Each of these ideas was developed in a Westchester County laboratory, where scientists from the International Business Machines Corporation gathered after spending months on the road, brainstorming with teachers, students and administrators. 
 Since 1994, more than 500 sites have asked for the company's help. I.B.M. specialists responded with technology ideas in 21 cases. Together, scientists and educators found solutions through a program called Reinventing Education, a cornerstone of the company's philanthropic effort, which has invested $40 million in programs in 16 states and in Brazil, Ireland, Italy and Vietnam.
Leaders in business, government and education say the initiative stretches the idea of traditional corporate philanthropy, which usually involves legions of volunteers or money and gifts.
Stanley Litow, the vice president of corporate community relations and president of the I.B.M. Foundation, the company's philanthropic arm, said Reinventing Education captures the firm's philanthropic goal not merely to pour out cash. Rather, he said, I.B.M. views philanthropy as a way to prove how technology can make a difference in people's lives.
"Grant money, even in the hundreds of thousands of dollars, is not going to change what you do for children," Mr. Litow said. "It can be helpful. It can provide supplemental services. On the other hand, what school systems really need is the tools that will make more valuable what they do with their own money."
Of the $125 million in total contributions by I.B.M. last year, 66 percent, or $82 million, was given in the form of technical assistance compared with 34 percent, or $43 million, given in cash.
Of all the issues I.B.M. has earmarked for charity -- the environment, health and culture -- education receives the largest share. Three-quarters of the company's corporate philanthropy was directed to education beneficiaries last year, up from 70 percent in 1998, I.B.M. officials said.
Rosabeth Moss Kanter, the Ernest L. Arbuckle professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, said I.B.M. is blazing a new trail in the world of corporate giving.
"What is different about what I.B.M. does -- and I think it should be a model, they are definitely pioneers -- is not just that they are putting in volunteer labor of a casual kind," she said. "They are putting talented scientists and professionals on large-scale, full-time problems to create an innovation. I.B.M. is trying to change things."
Providing volunteers to do manual labor like painting walls or landscaping has a purpose, but using what Ms. Kanter called the "highest skills" a firm has to offer is also valuable, because it creates long-term solutions to problems.
Peter G. Fairweather, an I.B.M. scientist who was also a public school teacher in Chicago in the 1970's, put it this way:
"If a school district is having trouble teaching people to read," he said, "if we simply drove a truck full of computers there and dropped them off, we would never be able to get to the technology to remedy the reading problems."
Of course, helping educators is good for business, I.B.M. officials said. A well-educated community will invest in technology, and partnerships with academia could pave the way for some Reinventing Education ideas to be marketed to a wider audience.
Mr. Fairweather has made more than 100 trips to schools around the country, gathering information to take back to the T. J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights. In developing one program, called Watch Me Read, he and others recorded the voices of 1,800 children to capture a variety of intonations and accents to enable the computer program to communicate with children from a wide range of backgrounds.
The Watch Me Read program was used in 1995 at the Will Rogers Elementary School in Houston, where school officials applied for an I.B.M. grant because they saw that students needed help understanding language, Ronald M. Dominy, the school principal, said. In four years, Mr. Dominy said he has watched first graders' test scores edge upward. Bilingual students' English-speaking ability has also improved, since the children are asked to repeat words they have mispronounced and can hear themselves saying things correctly.
"The bilingual students, economically, don't have the resources the other families have and don't have access to computers at home," Mr. Dominy said. "They took to it."
At Vance High School in Charlotte, N.C., Ann B. Clark, the principal, said that another I.B.M. program, called Wired for Learning, has been in place since 1997 and has gotten everyone more excited about education. The program helps pull teachers out of isolation and gets parents and students more involved, she said.
"We have survey results from teachers and parents and students that definitely attribute the technology to better ongoing communication," Ms. Clark said. "Parents feel more informed. And I think the teachers feel the instructional planning tool has enhanced their ability to plan and collaborate with other teachers and have a planning template."
Still, Mr. Dominy and others said that computerized lessons cannot replace the traditional school setting of classrooms and teachers. Instead, skilled, caring teachers in combination with computer technology provide the best learning scenario, he said.
Last year, Mr. Litow said he stood in a first-grade classroom in Philadelphia as a Vietnamese girl who had been in the country for about a year read aloud the story of her life, which she had written earlier and loaded into a classroom computer.
The girl's grandfather was there to watch her read the story as the rest of the children in the class read along with her. In simple, stark sentences, the girl talked about how her grandfather walked her to school, and Mr. Litow said the older man was clearly proud. The children were learning, on many fronts, he said.
"The story was so poignant," Mr. Litow said. "You think, 'What would have happened to this girl?' Somebody would have walked in and she would have been labeled as someone with a learning problem and that would get carried to grade three or four. And now, you have a new way of doing things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among scientists working on educational programs at the T. J. Watson Research Center are Dick Lam, left above, Sherman Alpert, Lei Kuang and Keith Grueneberg. Peter G. Fairweather, left, visits schools to gather information. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (93%); IBM (NYSE) (93%); IBM (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHILANTHROPY (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (74%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (73%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); 

PERSON: RONALD M DOMINY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



552 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: What's Entertainment? That Depends . . .

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA KUEHL

 BODY:
REMEMBER what fun it was rushing Snowball to the vet after he gulped down a badminton birdie? Hey, you protest, that was not fun. Nevertheless, that's entertainment, according to the United States government.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which annually surveys Americans about their spending habits, includes veterinary expenses in its "entertainment" category. Not classified as entertainment: reading, dining out and using a home computer, omissions that might give the bibliophile, the gourmand and the chat-room addict pause. The bureau also leaves out gambling, which some experts say is the most popular form of outside-the-home recreation in America. 
 The bureau's sometimes curious choices prompt the question: What is entertainment, anyway? And what factors -- genetic, geographic, chronologic, socioeconomic -- determine that some people, like Beth Henderson of Ashford, Conn., meet their entertainment needs through contemplative pursuits like reading and gardening, while others, like Rina Isaac of White Plains, embrace pulse-pounding activities like mountain biking and archery? What impels Dr. Alfred Scherzer of Hampton Bays, N.Y., to travel to Somalia to gaze at maribou storks, or Donald Wayne of Piscataway, N.J., to amass 100,000 postcards, including one made out of kangaroo skin?
Social scientists say the human hunger for entertainment may be as old as society itself. "I don't know that we have any sort of archaeological evidence of entertainment, per se," said Daniel Fessler, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of California at Los Angeles, whose research fields include evolutionary psychology and psychological anthropology. "But what we do have is the observation that all known human societies have entertainment of some fashion, and that suggests that it's very old indeed."
A society without entertainment "would be a pretty frightening thing," said Frank A. Salamone, a professor of sociology at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., and the author of "Society, Culture, Leisure and Play: An Anthropological Reference" (University Press of America, 2000).
Entertainment "lets us dream," he said.
"It's imagination," he added. "Play at its best gives us a million options."
As a noun, "play" commonly refers to the games of children. Adults, too old to zip into playsuits, instead put on "leisure wear" to "recreate." But whether it's called leisure, recreation or entertainment, when an activity is "nonproductive, in other words, the aim is not a product, the aim is the experience," that's play, and adults need to do it, said John R. Kelly, a sociologist and the author of 11 books about leisure.
"We are working creatures, we are bonding creatures," he said, "and we are playing creatures."
In the New York metropolitan statistical area -- which includes New York City, Westchester, Long Island, most of northern and central New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut -- households spent an average of $1,835 annually on entertainment in 1997-98, according to the Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That number, though, is misleadingly low. Besides pet care, the bureau's list of entertainments includes movies and sporting events; hobbies, toys and games; television sets, videos and stereos; and sporting and exercise equipment. But add items like dining out, alcoholic beverages and reading, and the amount jumps to almost $5,200 a year, or more than 10 percent of the average household's pretax income. Add still more -- lottery tickets, Internet access, the incalculable costs of recreational shopping, and major investments, like the room Mr. Wayne added onto his New Jersey home to accommodate his collections -- and entertainment costs can soar.
In some years, Dr. Scherzer, 71, spends more than $5,000 to watch birds in exotic locales. A practicing pediatrician and emeritus professor of pediatrics at Cornell Medical College, he is a co-president of the Moriches Bay Audubon Society, which has more than 750 members and covers a territory extending from Patchogue to the tip of the South Fork.
In 35 years as a birder, Dr. Scherzer said, he has logged 1,500 to 2,000 species, many in his backyard, figuratively speaking. "Eastern Long Island is very unusual, because the land mass involves the Atlantic Ocean on the east and the bays on the west, and it's right on the flyway of the eastern migration of birds that come down virtually from the North Pole on their way to South America," he said.
According to Dr. Kelly, who is a co-author with Rodney B. Warnick of "Recreation Trends and Markets: The 21st Century" (Sagamore, 1999), bird-watching is increasingly popular, especially among older adults, a population that grows with each aging baby boomer. In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, membership in National Audubon Society chapters has climbed almost 17 percent in the last decade, to nearly 72,000, an Audubon Society spokesman said.
At the Morton National Wildlife Refuge, a slender peninsula west of Sag Harbor, N.Y., that includes both upland and shore habitats, naturalists have documented roughly 280 species, and last year people flocked to see them. Attendance for 1998-99 reached almost 82,000, more than double the number of a decade ago, said Bob Parris, the deputy project leader for the Long Island National Wildlife Refuge Complex, which includes Morton and eight other sites.
Dr. Scherzer said he liked to visit Morton in the off-season, when the crowds are sparser. There, he holds out his hand to the black-capped chickadees, which, secure in their protected area, boldly peck sunflower seeds from a human palm. "It's just a nice experience," Dr. Scherzer said, "that little furry thing on your finger."
 
Variety of Influences
Economics, education, sex, religion, family background and age all influence entertainment choices. Up to 20 percent of Americans have no discretionary income for entertainment, while 10 percent can afford to spend "significant amounts" on fun, according to "Recreation Trends and Markets." Further, some Americans have little discretionary time, Dr. Kelly said, citing people who hold two jobs to support a family, mothers who shoulder a full-time job and take care of their families, too, and workers who may lose hours of recreation time to commuting.
Choices also spring from living in a particular time and place. "What was incredibly amusing in 1890 is now seen to be no longer funny, for the most part," said Dr. Salamone, the Iona professor. "See two minutes of a German film, and you know it's German. Broadly speaking, English jokes aren't funny in the United States, no matter what background people have. Why do the French like Jerry Lewis? I never understood that."
People also choose activities that balance their lives. "If you work in a steel mill all day, you don't rush out to play tennis when you leave the job," Dr. Kelly said. And for reasons that are still little understood, he said, some people are risk takers who like to play on the edge, others are intensely self-protective and need a comfort zone, and the majority fall between the two extremes.
Ms. Isaac, 38, who teaches first graders in Manhattan, said that skiing, hiking, biking and archery help keep her balanced. "When I leave the city, I need to revive my soul," she said. "I make sure I am with nature."
The bow and arrow, which she took up three years ago, require a concentration and focus that send her deep into herself. "You only hear your pulse, your heartbeat -- you can feel your sweat," she said. "It's a competition between my physical self and my mind."
Games generally fall into one of two categories: those that combine physical skill and strategy, and those that combine strategy and chance, said Garry Chick, an associate professor of leisure studies at Pennsylvania State University. Players who excel in the first category reap more prestige, he said.
Ms. Isaac said one benefit from her archery is a new identity. "People call me Rina the Archer, Pocahontas," she said. "They say, 'The wild woman is here.' People see you on another level: 'Hey, that person shoots, and that's awesome.' "
 
The Couch Potato
If archers inspire awe, couch potatoes draw sneers. But watching television remains Americans' prime pastime at night, a Gallup Poll reported in March 1999. Results of another Gallup Poll in January show that 57 percent of Americans watch three or more hours of television a day.
Television delivers story after story, feeding the human need for narrative, which, along with dance, is a universal form of entertainment, said Dr. Fessler of U.C.L.A. Some theorists say that entertainment, like cooking, may be a tradition passed down from ancestral societies. But Dr. Fessler said it may instead be an evolved psychology, a desire that became embedded in the human mind through evolution.
Unfortunately, Dr. Fessler said, evolved psychologies can become insatiable. "If you could afford it, and I guess some people can," he said, "you can just plug yourself into entertainment all of your waking hours and never leave the house."
Meanwhile, more narratives await at the local multiplex. Between 1989 and 1999, the number of movie screens in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose 60 percent, to 3,470, according to the National Association of Theater Owners. Box offices nationwide took in $7.49 billion in 1999, and Americans spent an additional $17.36 billion renting and buying movies, according to the Video Software Dealers Association.
Luckily for literacy, the stories on library shelves still beckon. According to "Recreation Trends and Markets," more than 90 million adult Americans read books, and the number is rising. In early September, Ms. Henderson, 57, said she was reading six: a memoir, a biography, a travelogue, two local histories and a Harry Potter. A former teacher and school administrator who is now a sculptor, Ms. Henderson said that she spent $75 to $100 a month on newspapers, magazines and books, and combed the library stacks in Ashford and Mansfield, Conn., for free riches. "One of the things I like about reading is that it really promotes the use of your imagination, a lot more than watching a movie, for example," she said.
In contrast, gambling, which Professors Kelly and Warnick describe as "the largest single 'recreation' activity outside the home," doesn't so much promote imagination as feed off it, as gamblers imagine themselves rich.
Their imaginations were working overtime in 1999 as Americans wagered more than $742 billion, according to an industry analyst, Christiansen Capital Advisors. That's 99 times last year's national movie box-office receipts, and almost triple the amount people wagered in 1989.
In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, dreamers spent $6.2 billion on lottery tickets in 1998-99, 73 percent more than a decade ago, according to figures provided by state lottery officials. And gamblers wagered $43.5 billion in Atlantic City casinos in 1999, about twice what they spent in 1989, according to New Jersey Casino Control Commission figures.
Gambling, which falls into the strategy-and-chance category of games, creates "a kind of an artificial excitement," Dr. Kelly said.
"You don't have to gain any skill to pull levers and push buttons," he said, "but something is happening and you're involved in it and you have a certain stake in it." Gambling choices and styles vary. Some play bingo for fun, others buy lottery tickets out of financial desperation. "That isn't play," he said. "That's waiting to be struck by lightning."
Hooked On Collecting
Gamblers and collectors are both treasure seekers, but collectors rarely go home empty-handed.
There are four clubs in New Jersey for postcard collectors, known as deltiologists, and Mr. Wayne belongs to three of them, including the Central Jersey Deltiological Society, of which he is president. A serious collector since the mid-1960's, Mr. Wayne, 65, said he went "a little berserk" over novelty cards. Besides the kangaroo-skin oddity, he owns cards made of Irish peat, celluloid, aluminum, leather, macerated money and woven silk.
But his acquisitive days are winding down, Mr. Wayne said, because even with the extra room, "the house is full." Still, a collector can dream. At a recent postcard show in Clark, N.J., Mr. Wayne pointed out a man who claimed to own a million cards. "People revere him as one of the icons of the postcard world," Mr. Wayne said. "At least, I do."
Somewhere in the United States is someone who collects just about every kind of object, Dr. Kelly said. Add up all the collections -- stamps, coins, rocks, bones, thimbles, Hummel figurines, comic books, ice cream scoops, barbed wire and everything else -- and "you probably have a fairly significant part of the adult population," he said.
Collectors form groups, attend meetings and publish journals. "The social aspects become very important," Dr. Kelly said.
Mr. Wayne, a retired math teacher who also collects slide rules and books about space, said he couldn't expect people to appreciate the thrill of postcards unless they saw his treasures. Even then they might not understand. Such passions develop over time, and the impulses behind them are often complex.
Although it is easy simply to mock somebody else's idea of fun, the Bureau of Labor Statistics contends that it has valid reasons for each omission from the Consumer Expenditure Survey's entertainment category. For example, the bureau deems reading more informational than entertaining, said Bill Passero, a senior economist. Dining out is a subcategory under food, and gambling is a miscellaneous expenditure, Mr. Passero said, noting that many people regard it not as entertainment but as an investment with a possible return.
As for pet care, it's been part of entertainment (formerly "recreation") since at least 1950, according to bureau records. Where else would you put it? Mr. Passero wondered.
Mr. Wayne, for one, said the notion of pets as entertainment made sense. He and his wife have two Shetland sheepdogs. "They're a riot," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF AMERICA INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHAT ROOMS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EXTREME SPORTS (69%); WRITERS (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); ARCHERY (52%); CYCLING (52%); 

PERSON: DON JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



553 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: A New Approach to Unclogging the Highways

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
FRUSTRATED with traffic problems that grow worse even as billions of dollars are spent on road improvements, a coalition of elected officials, business leaders and commuter groups will try a radically new approach to developing a transportation plan in Connecticut at an all-day summit in West Hartford on Thursday.
The meeting is likely to propose specific projects, its backers said, including the widening of Interstate 95 in the eastern part of the state, a better commuter rail link between New Haven and the Hartford-Springfield area, a better network of mass transit in Fairfield County, and the further development of Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks as a transportation hub. 
 "The last time we took a substantive look at transportation in this state was when the Mianus River Bridge fell down, and it's time to do it again," said Christopher P. Bruhl, president of the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association. "This is a real moment of decision. And if we don't do it right, the world will pass us by."
There are 2,349,051 licensed drivers in Connecticut, and almost all of them have their own cars, Federal Highway Administration statistics show, with each car traveling an average of 10,500 miles a year. And it feels as if they are all on I-95 at once.
That highway, designed for 70,000 to 80,000 cars a day, is carrying 155,000 cars a day in the New Haven area and 150,000 in Bridgeport. The morning and afternoon rush hours are a well-known nightmare.
And I-95 isn't the only problem. The Bureau of Planning at the State Department of Transportation said 40 percent of the state's limited access highways, and 20 percent of all other state highways, were classified as congested.
"There is growing unanimity that if we don't do something it will choke off economic growth," said R. Nelson "Oz" Griebel, director of the Connecticut Regional Institute for the 21st Century, a research group, and a co-chairman of the meeting, called "Strategic Solutions: From Gridlock to Growth." "The summit is just another reflection of the fact that this issue is being taken ever more seriously from every side, not just the department of transportation but the business community, environmental groups, regional planning agencies, and a lot of other organizations."
But more important than specific projects, organizers of the summit said they are seeking to develop a process that will remove politics from decisions about which area gets a road or a bridge, a bus route or some rail lines. The state can no longer afford to think of public works projects as pork, because the transportation infrastructure is increasingly tied to economic development and quality of life, said State Representative Moira Lyons, the Democratic House Speaker who was chairwoman of the Transportation Committee for eight years.
"We want a policy that takes all of the political infighting out of the process," Ms. Lyons said. "In doing that, it may mean that the project in your area may not be the immediate priority. That doesn't necessarily mean that we won't get to it, it might just mean it takes longer. But we need a rational basis for these decisions."
Representatives of regional planning agencies, chambers of commerce, and councils of government from across the state have worked most of the summer on three committees to prepare for the summit, an invitation-only event where there are two people on a waiting list for every one of the about 800 people who are attending.
Peter M. Gioia, an economist with the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, said increasingly, there is a realization about how much transportation is tied to the economic health of a state.
"When you look at where traffic flows are within Connecticut, an enormous obstacle for Connecticut businesses is getting into John F. Kennedy Airport or the Port of New Jersey, because there's such a bottleneck at the lower end of the state," he said. If that traffic could be redirected to Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, it would relieve some congestion.
Already, backers of the summit said, some of the traditional political barriers are starting to fall. John C. Markowicz, executive director of the Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, said that widening Interstate 95 to three lanes in each direction and completing Route 11 between Hartford and New London, and a few other priority items, will cost an estimated $1 billion. But groups in that region are working with their counterparts in southwestern Connecticut on a $1.5 billion plan for improving mass transit, and also working with the Hartford area on a $1.5 billion rail line along the Interstate 91 corridor.
"Rather than everybody beating up on each other and trying to get their piece, we're saying we have a comprehensive plan, a $4 billion package deal," Mr. Markowicz said. "The three corridors have put this on the table publicly, we have our councils of governments involved, and these are the priorities."
With federal funding, the package would require about $240 million a year for 10 years to cover the state's share.
"The current surplus is more than that," Mr. Markowicz said. Or, an additional gasoline tax of 7 cents a gallon would generate $1 billion.
"There may also be other sources of revenue. Let's have a debate, let's talk about it," Mr. Markowicz said. "There will be people running around saying that it's too expensive. But the question you have to ask is, if we don't start today and we're stuck in traffic today on Interstate 95, what do you think it's going to be like in 10 years."
James J. Finley, associate director of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, said even a statewide approach would be too limited.
"Decisions that New York City and New York State make regarding bridges over the Hudson or rail lines will have a dramatic impact on Connecticut, and we need to make sure that they're taking into account the needs of the rest of New England and the northeast states," Mr. Finley said. Years ago when federal government changed its formula for financing of transportation, members of Congress from New England, New York and New Jersey formed a coalition to make sure money was not redirected out of the Northeast. "That coalition needs to be revived."
Norman W. Garrick, director of the Connecticut Transportation Institute at the University of Connecticut, said some of the state's transportation problems could also be addressed by better land-use planning. Cities such as Portland, Ore., are trying to revitalize their core downtown districts, creating places where people want to work, shop and live. They are slowly creating enclaves where people don't need a car.
"They faced the same argument you hear in Connecticut about people being wedded to their car, but it's changing," Dr. Garrick said. "I think it could change here, too, but we need vision to start doing things differently."
One reason for the clogged highways: 96 percent of all travel to work is done by automobile, and 90 percent of work commuters travel in single-occupancy vehicles.
"We only capture about 4 percent of commuting trips on transit, split about 2 percent on rail and 2 percent on bus," said Richard A. Martinez, the chief of the Bureau of Planning at the State Department of Transportation. "We have high incomes in the state, so more people can afford to drive, and we tend to be more ruralized in our housing patterns."
People will use mass transit when it makes sense, however, Mr. Martinez said. About 80 percent of commuters into New York City take the train, because it is faster, and they can get a pass for a couple of hundred dollars, depending on where they pick it up, about half what they would pay for parking in the city.
There are other factors adding to congestion, he said. The average trip on Interstate 95, for instance, is eight to nine miles, reflecting that people are using it for local trips. Currently, there are 48 interchanges in the 50 miles of highway from New York to Bridgeport, which allows that kind of use.
Some battles are already shaping, such as the competition between commuters and freight haulers on the highway. Almost 80 percent of freight in Connecticut is moved on highways, and only 2 percent on rail. Some 12 to 13 percent of vehicles on Interstate 95 each day are trucks, the transportation department said, compared with 8 percent on Interstate 84 near Waterbury.
One suggestion to come out of the process has been to establish rail hubs where trucks could pick up freight within the state, or to develop ports for ships to bring it in. But Michael J. Riley, president of the Motor Transport Association of Connecticut, which represents 1,200 companies, cautioned that shipping patterns can't change overnight.
"I don't have any problem with the suggestions, except trains don't go to your front yard or to Stop & Shop or to Home Depot," Mr. Riley said. "The economy decides how things move, not government, and that's how it should be."
But any changes are likely to be controversial, he acknowledged.
"The way trucks move on Interstate 95 just doesn't make sense. We're banned from operating in the left hand lane and we can't operate in the right hand lane, or we don't want to, because everyone is entering and exiting," Mr. Riley said. "Let us operate in the left hand lane and you won't have this line of trucks moving down the middle of the highway."
For many years the charter of the transportation department has been to build and maintain roads and bridges as directed by the legislature, and it has done it well, Mr. Griebel said.
"But we need to get them to think and act in a broader way, we need to look at the way we make decisions about transportation funding," Mr. Griebel said. "You wind up with something where everybody gets a nickel along the way, but we don't spend the transportation dollar as well as it should be. We need to come up with a way to allow department to do its job as planners and engineers, to figure out what's best for the transportation system statewide, without any political heat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group will hold a summit this week on cutting traffic, like this evening rush-hour jam on Interstate 95 in Stamford. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STE DES AUTOROUTES RHONE-ALPES SA (90%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (56%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); STATISTICS (66%); DRIVERS LICENSES (52%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



554 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Tilles Begins 20th With High Hopes

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER

DATELINE: BROOKVILLE

 BODY:
WITH a celebratory nod to the past and a major push to ensure the future by creating new audiences, the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts begins its 20th season next month.
While no new series will be in the offing, the anniversary year will feature house debuts by performers like the violinist Gidon Kremer and Ballet Folklorico de Mexico; two mid week concerts by the Billy Taylor Trio, and the customary sprinkling of international stars like Itzhak Perlman, the Tokyo String Quartet, James Galway and the San Francisco Symphony. 
 In addition, the center is going to focus on outreach, "making sure that every child has a chance to experience and feel the arts," said Elliott Sroka, the center's executive director since 1986.
Arts-in-education programming will be expanded to include 19 performances by 10 different groups. These daytime shows at Tilles are only for schools and can, at the schools' discretion, include in-house training for teachers and pre-performance workshops for the students. Last year 12,000 students from 49 school districts throughout the Island saw 13 shows by 8 groups.
Tilles, on the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, is also entering into a partnership with the Lincoln Center Institute, a pioneer in arts in education. Working in the Manhasset and Freeport districts, the institute will help Tilles train 30 teaching artists based on Long Island who will eventually be available to go into the schools on a regular basis, not just to prepare students for specific programs.
All told, the outreach program will cost Tilles about $500,000; last year $275,000 was spent. "One of our missions is to educate future audiences, nurture audiences and performers for and of the next generation," he said.
But Tilles officials have more on their minds than what is on stage. About $4 million has already been raised toward a $10 million to $15 million capital plan. That includes a $1.1 million grant from New York State that Mr. Sroka said would mostly be used to "maintain, upgrade and improve the center physically."
Some of that work involves projects that got pushed aside in the rush to open for the 1981 season.
For that first season, which had a budget of $507,000, the hall presented 12 events seen by 20,000 people. For the 1998-99 season, the last year for which figures are available, more than 102,000 people attended 90 events. This season, the budget of $6.3 million will cover a comparable number of shows.
"Without a doubt it has had a positive influence on the cultural life of Long Island," said Teddy Bookman, the executive director of Friends of the Arts. "It has been a catalyst to bring extraordinary performers to the Island."
The Friends, a group that began presenting dance and classical music on the Island in 1973, was one of Tilles's initial tenants for its Great Performances series. But with "the graying of the audience," Ms. Bookman said, by 1996 "there wasn't enough of an audience for both us and Tilles, so we decided to concentrate on other aspects of our programming."
The Sea Cliff Chamber Players and the National Grand Opera, which used to be major renters, are no longer in business, so the only arts groups still using the hall are the Long Island Philharmonic and the Eglvesky Ballet. The bulk of each season is programmed by Tilles.
Before Tilles, promoters like Friends of the Arts used school auditoriums or movie houses for their concerts. While the Staller Center on the Stony Brook campus of the State University opened in 1975, with its 1,000-seat main stage and smaller theaters it was considered too small to make the presentation of large orchestras and major performers economically feasible -- and too far east to accommodate Nassau residents.
Recognizing a need for a more centrally located professional concert venue, in the 1970's Long Island University officials built the Dome Concert Hall at C. W. Post. When the Dome collapsed after a heavy snow in 1978, the current building, with a main theater that seats 2,200 and the 491-seat adjacent Hillwood Recital Hall, was built at the cost of $4.4 million. It was originally known as the C. W. Post Concert Theater but took the name of Gilbert and Rose Tilles in 1986 after the family donated $1.1 million.
Tilles has found traditional classical music audiences graying out or retiring off the Island, so it began programming pop, jazz and special events to appeal to younger people. It found that children's concerts also brought their parents, all potential ticket-buyers, to the hall, and it booked ethnic performances meant to attract newcomers to the Island.
The theater must be doing something right, Mr. Sroka believes, because eight weeks before the anniversary season opened, about 85 percent of their audience members were subscribers.
Last year, 16 percent of subscriptions were sold to people from Suffolk communities as far away as Stony Brook and Hauppauge and 7 percent went to residents of Queens and Brooklyn. Even within Nassau, Mr. Sroka said, the reach has increased dramatically to South Shore communities like Baldwin, Freeport, Massapequa and Long Beach.
"We've created an institution that's constantly reinventing itself and perpetuating itself, one that the public supports," Mr. Sroka said. "We're close to raising a $10 million endowment, because we're meeting the growing demands for lively and vital arts."
The Tilles Center's 20th anniversary season opens on Oct. 6 with "An Evening With Marvin Hamlisch." Information: (516) 299-3100.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elliott Sroka, executive director of the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, is committed to an outreach program and a capital improvement plan. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BUDGETS (86%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BALLET (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); 

PERSON: GIDON KREMER (58%); JAMES GALWAY (57%); ITZHAK PERLMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



555 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 5; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

Westport Awards
Each year about this time Westport honors a group of artists, writers, actors, musicians and photographers who have lived or worked in the town during the course of their careers.
The seventh annual public awards presentation will be held today at 2 p.m. in the Westport Town Hall, 110 Myrtle Avenue. 
 On the list of living recipients is the composer and musician Norman Dello Joio; the actress Haila Stoddard; Max Wilk, the writer, producer and teacher; and George Silk, the photographer.
Posthumous recognition will be given to Lucille Lortel, one of the theater's most dedicated advocates and producers; the artist Kerr Eby; the musician Heida Hermann; and the children's writer P. D. Eastman.
A short video presentation will precede the awards ceremonies and a performance of a Dello Joio work will end the program, followed by a reception at the Westport Historical Society.
The event is open to the public free of charge.
 
Appraising Collectibles
You did save those Pez dispensers, and some of that Silly Putty you used to have, didn't you? Your mother's tin school lunch box? All manner of junk might now be worth the price of at least one pair of Manolo Blahniks.
Pack up one prized thing and take it to the Connnecticut Historical Society in Hartford on Wednesday at 7 p.m., when Gary Sohmers, an appraiser for the "Antiques Roadshow" television show, will tell you its worth.
During his lecture on "What's Hot, What's Not," Mr. Sohmers will offer sage advice on the collectibles craze and where you might find a fortune among the detritus in the attic, basement and garage.
The society is at 1 Elizabeth Street, and admission is $5, $5 for people over 64 and children 6 through 17 years of age. The number to call for more information is (860) 236-5621.
 
Mark Twain
It took Samuel Clemens seven years to write "Huckleberry Finn" with the help of his wife, Olivia, only to face scorn and verbal abuse from many quarters when it was published. The public library in Concord, Mass., for example, called it trash and refused to have the book on its shelves. To which the author's response was, "that will sell 25,000 copies for sure."
All this will be brought to life in a program of dramatic readings on Thursday at 7 in the Carriage House of Samuel and Olivia Langdon Clemens' Hartford home, now a museum, at 351 Farmington Avenue.
"Mark My Words: Twain and the Creative Process" will be performed by the actors John Pogson and Lisa Steier as the 19th-century writer and and his wife. The material was gleaned from the couple's personal correspondence and private papers.
The book remains among the top five titles on the "100 Most Challenged Books 1990-1999," a list compiled by the American Library Association. "Mark My Words" has been appropriately scheduled during the association's 16th annual Banned Book Week. Admission is $10. The number to call for reservations or more information is (860) 247-0998, extension 23, or charge reservations to Visa or MasterCard by e-mailing rachel_rogers@hartnet.org.
 
The Black Press
"Frederick Douglass's 'Colored Newspaper' " is the title of the first in a series of four lectures on the black press in America. Organized by Trinity College, the Connecticut Historical Society and Curbstone Press, the talks will be held at 4:30 p.m., free of charge, at the Historical Society, 1 Elizabeth Street in Hartford.
The opening program on Tuesday will be conducted by Robert Fanuzzi, an associate professor of English at St. John's University and a widely published author on Douglass.
Subsequent lectures are titled "African-American Literary Societies and the Black Press," to be delivered on Oct. 19 by Elizabeth McHenry, assistant professor of English at New York University; "Photojournalism at Ebony Magazine" on Nov. 21, with Maren Stange, professor of American studies at Cooper Union; and "Literature, Journalism and the Black Middle Class in Chicago 1930-1950" on Nov. 30, with James C. Hall, author and associate professor of African-American Studies and English at the University of Illinois in Chicago.
The number to call for more information is (860) 236-5621.
 
Ireland and Conflict
Ireland's internecine conflict, frequently called "the troubles," may be seen as the end-product of a tangled earlier history, outlined in an exhibition called "Ascendancy: Irish Religion and Politics 1500-1800."
The exhibition, on view at the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale through Oct. 14, can be seen Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free.
A major portion of the material is from the library's own James Marshall and Marie-Louise Osborn Collection. It includes paintings and engravings from the 16th through the 18th centuries as well as maps, correspondence and manucripts.
Among them are a 1599 letter in which Elizabeth I instructs Robert Earl, Governor-General of the Kingdom of Ireland, on aspects reharding the suppression of insurgents in Ulster.
Edmund Spenser's 1597 prose work, "A Viewe of the Present Estate of Ireland" was an exceptionally authoritative summary of knowledge about Ireland at that time.
Letters by Cromwell, petitions by Irish bishops against the papacy, anonymous manuscripts urging harsher measures against Catholics and manuscripts petitioning for relief for Catholics, correspondence by Sir Robert Peel, and letters, treatises and petitions by numerous nobles, high officals and commoners offer insights into Ireland's history.
In a 1797 letter Edmund Burke wrote, "Nothing can equal the madness and folly of all the proceedings in England, except the madness and folly of the proceedings in Ireland, which not only equal but far exceed them in every particular of insanity and absurdity."
 
Book Discussions
The Friends of New Haven's Free Public Library have organized another season of weekly noontime book discussions at the United Church on the Green, at the corner of Temple and Elm Streets. The opener on Thursday is "My Life With Benjamin Franklin," discussed by its author, Claude Anne Lopez, consultant editor of Franklin's papers at Yale.
Admission is free and visitors are welcome to bring a bag lunch. Coffee and cookies are available for purchase from 11:30 a.m. to noon.
Books under discussion are always current and discussion leaders are always faculty members, former faculty, deans or others having some connection with Yale. On Oct. 5, Robert J. Shiller, professor of economics at Yale, will talk about his book, "Irrational Exuberance."
Begun in 1972, the series runs through November and resumes again in the spring. The number to call for more information is (203) 288-1900 or (203) 230-0847.
 
Another Andrew Wyeth
There is another Andrew Wyeth, with the middle name of Nathaniel separating him from his grandfather, the original Andrew Wyeth. The younger Andrew, known as A.N., is a watercolorist following the realist tradition of the family.
An exhibition of his landscapes and vintage buildings may be seen at the Geary Gallery, 576 Post Road, in Darien through Oct. 13.
The landscapes may be seen on Tuesday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The number to call for more information is (203) 655-6633.
 ELEANOR CHARLES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Wednesday evening in Hartford: colectible appraisal. (pg. 5); Frederick Douglass (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSIC (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (88%); HISTORY (88%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); LIBRARIES (60%); 

PERSON: LUCILLE LORTEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



556 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 16; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: In Bridgeport, Demolish or Preserve?

BYLINE: By REGINALD JOHNSON

 BODY:
ONCE, the Elijah Hubbell building was a focal point of downtown Bridgeport. With a hotel on the top floors and businesses on the first floor, the building (which dates from 1871) was abuzz with activity for years while Bridgeport thrived in the industrial era.
Now, the big brick building is vacant, its windows boarded up, its copper cornice stained from years of neglect. And it is surrounded by similar buildings in similar condition in the heart of downtown. Now, too, in an effort to remake the center of the city and ease court overcrowding, officials have come up with a plan to build a court complex on a 20-acre site. The plan calls for a state juvenile court and detention center, a criminal court building, a parking garage and retail development. The entire project is expected to cost more than $100 million, with the state paying most of the bill. 
 "We've had plans for the downtown coming out of every entrance and exit of City Hall for the past 30 years, and nothing has happened," the City Council president, John Fabrizi, said. "Now we have a chance to make things happen, and solve the problems of the court overcrowding."
In all, 48 buildings on the north side of downtown will be razed to make way for the project, and it is that destruction that is causing second thoughts. Because in those 20 acres, an area that is on the National Register of Historic Places, are buildings like the Elijah Hubbell, and preservationists are asking the city to slow down.
"The city's in danger of losing its soul," the city's historian, Charles Brilvitch, said. "Taking out the better part of downtown for this ill-conceived idea will be the death knell for downtown."
Opponents see the overall plan, called the Congress Plaza Renewal Project, as inappropriate and unnecessary, one that will further destroy Bridgeport's heritage, force out small businesses and bring in an institution (the detention center) that will hurt the downtown's image, at a time when perception of the city was beginning to improve.
A group called the Downtown Preservation Task Force has been organized to fight the plan. A letter-writing campaign has begun, petitions are being circulated, and a Web site set up. Opponents are asking the City Council for a nine-month moratorium on the project and asking state officials to stop support for the project.
Charlie Shanner and Judith Miller, members of the task force who want to stop the project, said the Elijah Hubbell building is far from an empty old hulk. To them, the building is a treasure that must be saved. They believe the structure -- along with several other downtown buildings -- could be renovated and help revitalize the center of the city.
"I see the potential for offices and apartments here," said Ms. Miller as she stood at the corner of Golden Hill Street and Main Street. "You could have shops all along the first floor that would be part of a beautiful streetscape."
"And apartments on the top floor would get a magnificent view," Mr. Shanner said. "Buildings like these are marvelous because you can go into them and pretty much make them anything you want, and still keep the historic character." The mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, the economic development director, Michael Freimuth, and other municipal leaders like Mr. Fabrizi, the City Council president, see the picture very differently. The downtown has been declining for years, they said, and the project presents an opportunity to build something new finally. It is simply not economically feasible, they said, to preserve the old buildings and make them useful.
City officials say the construction of the new judicial buildings, together with the parking garage, accomplishes several objectives: The criminal court building will modernize and streamline Superior Court operations, now handled by two older courthouses nearby. The new structure also will make over the two-block area of Main Street and Middle Street just south of Congress Street, where there are buildings that are empty and decaying. The juvenile detention center and court will solve the overcrowding at an existing institution on the West Side of Bridgeport,a problem the city was under court order to correct.
In the area south of the planned new court buildings, Mr. Freimuth said, some dilapidated buildings will be cleared for new retail development -- although no developers have made commitments.
Some demolition of 19th-century brick buildings has already taken place on the northern end of the redevelopment tract. In June, a building on Gold Street was removed because bricks were falling, said Patrick Coyne, the director of the city's Clean and Green Program, which is handling the demolitions. In July, officials said the roof collapsed on a building on Middle Street and that, too, was taken down for safety reasons. In the process of demolishing the building, the wrecking equipment damaged a nearby building. That structure was immediately declared a safety hazard, and Mayor Ganim issued an emergency demolition order.
Except for emergency demolition, a municipality that wants to tear down a building listed on the National Register of Historic Places to make way for a state or federally funded construction project must submit their plans for review before the State Historical Commission. The director of the state commission, John Shannahan, said local officials must prove there is no alternative site for the planned project or show that existing buildings couldn't work.
City representatives in June appeared before the panel to make their case. They presented arguments made in a consultant's report that the area was severely blighted and that renovation of the existing buildings was not financially viable.
Commission officials decided they needed to do their own check of the condition of the buildings, and the city agreed to hold off on any nonemergency demolitions for a three-month period, until Oct. 6.
Preservationists dispute that all of the buildings are derelict. One building slated for demolition that aroused concern is the Bridgeport Boys Club, at 227-41 Middle Street. The turn-of-the-century building is constructed of heavy masonry and brick, with the steps up to the top floors constructed with cut stone. The former owner of the building, Marshall Lewis, whose family has a business next door and owned the building for years, said the roof is in solid shape.
Mr. Shanner, in fact, had inquired about buying the building at one point to move in his graphic design business and rent out store and restaurant space. But he was told by city officials that the building was going to be demolished.
"That building could withstand a nuclear attack," said the preservation task-force member Judith Miller. Cleaning up the brick and cornices on the exterior, and renovating the interior, Ms. Miller said, would make it an exemplary building.
Several people who want to save the old buildings said the city should be following the model of South Norwalk and the area of Washington Street, which has a line of historic buildings that have been converted into offices, bookstores, craft shops, restaurants and pubs. The area is one of the most popular night spots in southern Connecticut.
"Twenty years ago, the buildings on Washington Street were dilapidated and decaying, too," Mr. Brilvitch said. "And look what they did."
State Representative Robert T. Keeley Jr., a Democrat of Bridgeport and a preservation task-force member, also complained that the idea of bringing a juvenile court and detention center into the downtown area runs counter to the city's attempt to lure more people downtown for entertainment. "I don't know of any other cities that are putting detention facilities in their downtowns," he said. "It's not usual to use this as a marketing tool," he said sarcastically.
Mr. Keeley and others said there are other places in the city where the juvenile detention center could be built. "I'm going to be talking to the governor's office and let them know there is no planning down here."
Mr. Freimuth said the city looked for other locations for the juvenile center. Some two dozen sites were considered and rejected -- for zoning problems, resistance from property owners, or noncompliance with state guidelines for being accessible to other judicial centers and a transportation network.
"We have to balance the historic with economics," Mr. Freimuth said. "We have to balance the fact that these buildings just cannot produce and perform today."
Mr. Freimuth also denied that the city had no interest in historic renovation -- citing the restoration work on the old McLevy Hall, conversion of an old bank into the Polka Dot Playhouse, the planned renovation of Read's Department store into artists' studios, and restoration of the Arcade Building. All those buildings are south of the Congress Plaza area, and a few blocks north of the city's sports development area, which includes the Bluefish baseball stadium and new sports arena.
Several small-business owners in the area targeted for demolition are also bitter about the city's plan.
One of those is the Aquarion Beauty Salon at 1218 Main Street, owned by Dionne Wilson. She said she's been told she has to move by October. "I don't know if I can find a place," she said. "The city hasn't given much help in finding another place. Rents are much higher in other places, or there are no vacancies. Also, you don't know if there will be enough parking," she said.
Lance Lewis, owner of one of Bridgeport's oldest businesses, Davidson's Fabrics, at 1240 Main Street, said he does not want to leave. He said the store has been there for more than 50 years, caters to many people of modest means, and has employees who have worked with them for years.
"We saw this area deteriorate for 30 years and we stuck it out. We held on," he said. "Now there's a plan to make it come back, and I have to leave."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hubbell building, street level. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 16); A close look at the Elijah Hubbell building shows boarded windows. At left: Charles Shanner and Judith Miller surveying the Bridgeport Boys Club on Middle Street.; Preservationists are hoping to prevent demolition of the Elijah Hubbell building in Bridgeport. The city wants to create a court complex on the site. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PETITIONS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); HISTORY (72%); JUVENILE COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); 

PERSON: ELIJAH HUBBELL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



557 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Bus Driver Shortage Leaving Students At the Curb

BYLINE: By NANCY DONIGER

 BODY:
THE shortage of school bus drivers resulting from the expanding economy and the state's low unemployment rate has made the first few weeks of the school year chaotic ones. Buses in many towns are regularly late, routes have been expanded so students have to leave for school earlier and get home later, and in some cases, most notably in Stamford where the shortage has been acute, buses haven't come at all.
The problem has gotten so bad, and the search for new drivers so futile, that some bus companies have offered up to $2,000 signing bonuses for drivers, increased wages by more than 30 percent, and have put their office staff on the road. In at least two cases, company presidents have had to get behind the wheel to keep the buses running. 
 Many parents are getting fed up, demanding meetings with school and bus officials and often abandoning the bus altogether, driving their children to school instead. Of course, that has led another frustration: traffic jams at pick up and drop off as more cars head to school.
"We're getting calls about bus driver shortages from all around the state," said Thomas Murphy, spokesman for the State Department of Education. "This should come as no surprise. We have a very strong economy. People who might in the past have been interested in becoming bus drivers have other options.
Like working for the casinos in Ledyard and Uncasville, an area of the state feeling the shortage. Or jobs at the corporations and new high-tech companies that fill Fairfield County. With well-paying jobs seemingly so available, and with a statewide unemployment rate of about 2.5 percent, bus companies are having difficulty finding drivers to work for pay ranging from $9 to $18 an hour or more, depending on the area. That's up from an average of $8 to $10 five years ago. In Thomson, a particularly hard-hit area, bus drivers earn $21 an hour, said Robin Leeds, executive director of the Connecticut School Transportation Association.
Still, while wages are rising, driving is still a part-time job, and a stressful one at that, considering the responsibility of caring for dozens of children. Drivers work an average of five hours a day, so even in Thomson, drivers are making only $525 a week. That's about $20,000 a school year in a state where the median annual income is $62,800.
The shortage of bus drivers in Connecticut mirrors a nationwide problem. Richard Fischer, a school bus consultant in Peyton, Colo., estimates the national shortage at 20 percent. Schools across the nation have begun staggering their start times as one method to permit fewer drivers to make more runs.
Stamford was the hardest hit at the start of this school year. The district was already short drivers, when 24 failed to show up for the first day of school, bringing the shortfall to 40 drivers.
Responding to a crisis in Stamford that left many students stranded during the first weeks of school, the Laidlaw Bus Company, with 800 routes and 900 to 950 drivers statewide, is offering sign-up bonuses of $2,000 for already certified drivers, and $1,000 for people who are willing to complete the approximately four-week training program, required for certification, said Ronald Timula, general manager of Laidlaw. State law requires school bus drivers to get a commercial drivers license, along with a criminal-background check and drug and alcohol testing, he said.
The company has also dramatically increased wages. New drivers in Stamford, who previously were paid $22 for a 2 1/2-hour run and a $7 a day as an incentive bonus just for showing up, now earn $30. So new drivers make $67 a day if they drive two shifts, totaling about five hours. The wages of experienced drivers (those who have been with the company for three years or more) rose from $31.75 to $38 a shift, allowing them to make, with the $7 bonus, $83 for the entire day. The company is also offering fully paid health insurance immediately, rather than the previous one-year waiting period.
 Mr. Timula also said that Laidlaw reached an agreement with the Teamsters Union in Stamford this month and has brought in 40 drivers from out of state, 30 of whom are still in training.
"We still have some glitches, but expect to have them solved very soon," he said, "once we get more new drivers on the road. We intend to fulfill our obligations to the Stamford School District and make it unnecessary for the district to desire to break the contract."
Rosa Rastegar of Stamford was livid when the bus failed to pick up her three children, and she had to drive them. She and her husband, Saiid, are also irked by the very early pick-up time for her high school daughter, which was pushed from 7:05 a.m. last year back to 6:35 a.m. this year. Her daughter will soon be waiting for the bus in the dark, she said.
"They had all summer to work things out," Ms. Rastegar said. "We feel it's time to change bus companies. Laidlaw has constant problems and ups and downs."
Lisa Arons, whose sons, Noah, 5, and Jonathan, 7, attend Roxbury Elementary School in Stamford, found the bus so erratic that she now drives
"We're driving our children to school, but there are major problems when pickup time comes," she said. "There isn't enough space allocation for all the cars. Pick up is a nightmare. There's nowhere to put all the cars that are getting there early."
Under pressure from the Board of Education and parents, Laidlaw had agreed to relinquish its contract at the end of the year.
At least two hard-pressed bus company presidents have been getting behind the wheel since the start of the school year, covering routes when enough drivers can not be found. Clerical workers and mechanics who have the necessary certification are also driving.
John Sylvanie, president of the Greenwich and New Canaan Bus Companies is one of them. He is driving, despite a wage scale his company offers of $12 to $14 an hour, 401(k) plan, and vacation time. Mr. Sylvanie has managed to cover his bases without disruption to his customers by "getting as creative as we could and rerouting all the schools, making some routes shorter and others longer. We work very closely with our customers, but we're still short of drivers."
Because Greenwich and New Canaan do not have a large pool of people willing to work as school bus drivers, he has done aggressive recruiting in urban areas and imports drivers from New York, and where the parent company, the Suburban Bus Company, is situated.
Even with all those measures, he has no spare drivers and admitted the system could confront severe disruptions with an outbreak of the flu this winter. "More resources have to go into the system," Mr. Sylvanie said. "My costs have gone up two or three times. Fuel is way up, auto liability insurance and health insurance are up."
He does not believe firing bus companies will solve the problem, since the shortage of drivers is so widespread. "The school systems have to put sufficient resources into transportation," he said. "Money doesn't grow on trees. They can't keep going with the lowest bidder to save money, and think things will work. The whole system needs to be rethought."
Rising school enrollment across the state is compounding the problem. The state's student population this September followed a 12-year growth cycle, adding 4,000 new children, or a total of 558,860.
School districts may have to appeal to the community for more money if the trend continues, he said.
"There's no short-term fix," Ms. Leeds said. "From what I've heard, people are looking to the labor shortage continuing until 2025."
Some Wilton middle school parents are so fed up with their children's long bus routes, they are car-pooling them to school instead. One Ridgefield teacher said most of her students are tardy, due to late bus arrivals, disrupting the school day.
West Hartford has also felt the crunch of late arrivals, according to the school transportation director, Olivia Harry. The school district is served by the Double AA Transportation Company, which was awarded the contract this year for the first time. First Student Inc. previously served the district.
Double AA was unexpectedly short 24 drivers at the start of the school year, but has hired more drivers and used company staff to cover all its runs. The company president, Tony Autorino, has been driving a regular route, in addition to running the bus company. "We didn't feel the shortage until the fall," he said. "We have mostly young mothers driving, because they can bring their preschool children on the bus. Not everyone wants to be a bus driver because it's an ultra high responsibility." His company pays drivers $11.50 per hour.
Gene Garriepy, 66, of Newtown has been driving for Laidlaw's Brookfield terminal for 11 years. He generally likes the job, he said, because he cares about the children and feels he is able to make a contribution to their well-being through the relationships he forms with some families. Mr. Garriepy started in 1989 at $9 an hour, was earning about $9.75 an hour five years ago and now brings home $12.60 an hour for an average of 25 to 28 hours a week.
"If my wife wasn't working, and we didn't have income from investments, I wouldn't be able to do it," he said. Drivers receive few benefits, aside from three paid personal days and a 401(k) they must fund themselves, without company contributions.
Ms. Leeds cited several solutions for the driver shortage, including staggered start times to allow fewer drivers to cover more routes and raising their hours to full-time. She also recommended using school buses for other purposes in the community, since Connecticut has little mass transportation.
This would give drivers more hours and put the buses to greater use, benefiting the bus companies and the communities.
Mr. Murphy and Mr. Garripey agree with Ms. Leeds that staggered hours would help solve the problem. All-year school and better working conditions for the drivers would also help, Mr. Garriepy said.
Not all areas of the state are hurting, however.
School officials in Waterbury, Danbury, Bridgeport, Hartford and New Haven, where the labor pool is larger and the cost of living is lower than in other parts of the state, said they had enough drivers.
Gary Levine, contract manager for First Student Inc., with routes in Bethel, Easton and Redding, said the situation looked precarious this summer, but he was able to bring in drivers in July and has enough to cover the routes.
"We have 46 routes and 46 drivers, but we don't have spares," he said. "We're very fortunate to have drivers back from last year, but we need spares."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students boarding buses at Parkway Elementary School in Greenwich. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 14); Parents waiting with their children for the school bus in Stamford. At left, John Sylvanie, president of the Greenwich and New Canaan Bus Companies, driving students to school himself in the face of a shortage of drivers felt across the state. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LAIDLAW BUS CO (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARENTS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: THOMAS AQUINAS MURPHY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



558 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Decision Nears on Much-Debated Mall at Oyster Bay

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
WHEN the last speaker sat down sometime after 4 a.m. on Sept. 8, ending one of the longest public hearings ever in the town of Oyster Bay, there was agreement on only this: the former Cerro Wire and Cable Company plant near Syosset was a blight and had to go.
What should rise next on the industrially zoned acreage, which is next to the Long Island Expressway but also at the borders of residential communities, has remained, in the days since the hearing, at the center of one of the most stubbornly fought development battles on Long Island in years. 
 Consultants and representatives for Taubman Centers, a mall developer based in Bloomfield, Mich., which is seeking to make its debut in Long Island's rich retail market, argued at the hearing that nothing could be better or economically wiser than replacing the derelict industrial plant on the 39-acre site with a top-of-the-line shopping mall. Taubman has been trying for six years to gain approval, and a Town Board decision is now expected within two months.
The property was acquired in 1989 by the Tribune Company of Chicago as a potential site for a printing plant for The Daily News. The Tribune company no longer owns The Daily News but now owns Newsday.
Built in 1950's, the Cerro plant manufactured electrical conduits and copper rods. In 1993 the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation declared the site, by then unused, an inactive hazardous waste site. It was removed from the list after a cleanup in 1994.
To be called the Mall at Oyster Bay, the 860,000 square-foot retail center -- scaled back from nearly one million square feet in an earlier proposal -- would hold Long Island's first Neiman-Marcus, other major stores whose identity Taubman has yet to disclose and an array of expensive smaller stores and shops.
"We are talking about a mall the likes of which Long Island has never seen," said Gary Lewi, a public relations professional from Syosset and a spokesman for Taubman, speaking in the days after the hearing.
More than just shopping is at stake, Taubman says. The mall would mean more than 2,000 construction jobs and tens of millions in tax revenues -- including more than $6 million for financially ailing Nassau County -- during construction. Once operating, Taubman estimates, the mall would directly generate more than $45 million annually in salaries, $7.3 million in property taxes and $14.3 million in sales tax revenues. Annual property taxes would include $375,181 for the town of Oyster Bay and $3.9 million for the Syosset School District. And, incidentally, the Cerro blight would be wiped away.
But the neighbors and their supporters are adamantly opposed to Taubman's project and came by the hundreds to the marathon hearing, presenting their own consultants, who urged rejection of the plan.
Leaders of local civic groups said they would prefer a high-tech park, light industry, an office complex, senior-citizen housing, even a recreational facility. Traffic from the mall, they said, would wreak havoc on their middle- and upper-middle-income neighborhoods. The generally accepted estimate of the traffic generated by the mall is 24,000 cars on an average day.
The site, the opponents said, is particularly ill suited for a mall because poor access would inevitably funnel large volumes of traffic through local streets and, dangerously, over a grade-level Long Island Rail Road crossing. Mall traffic would also overburden larger commercial thoroughfares like Jericho Turnpike, they said.
"The neighborhoods' entire quality of life will be forever destroyed," said Howard Avrutine of Syosset, a lawyer for the Birchwood Civic Association, a group representing a neighborhood near the proposed mall.
In a well-organized and dogged campaign, the opponents say they have broadened their ranks to include more than 20 civic associations, two local school boards -- including the Syosset school board -- and, by their count, 25,000 families in a wide radius around the proposed mall site.
THE Nassau County Chambers of Commerce, representing 6,000 businesses, has also joined the opposition. Members fear the mall will hurt existing retailers, including smaller businesses along Jericho Turnpike.
"They all recognize the devastation this project would cause," said Kevin Ryan, president of Ryan & Ryan, a public relations firm in Farmingdale, who has worked two years for the Birchwood Civic Association.
The opponents are unimpressed by Taubman's assertions that the mall would fill a high-end shopping need in Nassau County beyond that already filled by the Americana at Manhasset and other malls.
"There are so many malls in every direction," said Leonard A. Gutterman of the West Birchwood Civic Association. "We just question the need for another."
The seven members of the Oyster Bay Town Board must now decide whether to grant Taubman a special permit to allow construction of the mall in an industrial area, the subject of the hearing. Supervisor John Venditto said last week he expected the board would act within two months.
But Mr. Venditto and principals for and against the mall said that regardless of the board's decision, they expected appeals in the courts. Mr. Venditto said the board would strive to write a decision that would withstand a legal challenge. "We are elected to make decisions about zoning," Mr. Venditto said. "We should be the ones to decide what goes on in the streets of this town."
Residents opposing the mall vowed to defeat town board members if they fail to heed antimall sentiment.
Taubman's representatives said groups that have opposed the mall were using public relations techniques to make themselves look bigger and influence the outcome.
Morton Weber, a lawyer on Long Island for Taubman, said the number of opponents had swelled in recent months by no more than "maybe a hundred people or so" despite the groups' recruiting efforts. The opponents scoffed at this. "It sounds like he is getting desperate," Mr. Ryan said.
But Mr. Weber said he believed the primary opponent to the mall was not nearby residents, but rather Simon Properties of Indianapolis, the largest mall owner in the country and a Taubman competitor.
Mr. Weber said Mr. Ryan still represented Roosevelt Field in Garden City, a Simon property, and suggested that Simon might be helping to finance residents' opposition, which has included a direct mail campaign and a full-page advertisement in Newsday. On Long Island, Simon also owns the Mall at the Source in Westbury, Walt Whitman in Huntington and Smithhaven Mall in Lake Grove.
Billie Scott, a Simon spokeswoman in Indianapolis, said, "The suggestion that we are manipulating the situation for a competitive purpose is an attempt to divert attention away from the real issue, namely traffic." She said Simon retained Mr. Ryan about two years ago to do public relations work for the four Simon-owned malls but had no part in his work on behalf of the Birchwood Civic Association in opposing the Taubman mall.
Asked if Simon had made any financial contribution to the opponents, she replied, "I can't comment on the level of support, if any, that has been provided by Simon."
Mr. Ryan said he was not being paid by Simon for his work with the civic association. "This whole Simon thing is smoke and mirrors," he said.
A leader of residents opposing the Taubman mall, Todd Fabricant of the East Birchwood Association in Jericho and a Cerro Wire coalition committee, said he had "no communication with the Simon organization." He said financing for the fight against what he called "a very poor plan for this site" had come from dues residents paid to organizations opposed to the project.
Mr. Ryan said Taubman had enlisted union construction workers in its efforts by "selling them a bill of goods" about union jobs the project would provide. "We have never been antidevelopment; we have just been antimall," Mr. Ryan said. He said whatever was built at the site would provide construction jobs.
Construction workers favoring the Taubman mall were among more than 1,500 people who attended the Oyster Bay hearing. John M. Kennedy, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Nassau and Suffolk Counties, said that Mr. Weber and another Taubman official had "made a commitment to use local union contractors and craftspeople."
Taubman, like Simon a real estate investment trust, was founded by A. Alfred Taubman in 1950 and owns shopping malls with a combined total of 27 million square feet of retail space in 12 states.
In New Jersey, Taubman owns the Mall at Short Hills, with 1.35 million square feet of retail space. The company's malls in Connecticut include the 573,000-square foot Stamford Town Center, and Westfarms, near Hartford, with 1.29 million square feet.
As residents vow that Taubman will never build a mall at the Cerro site, a wild card has yet to be played. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has powers of condemnation, has named a portion of the property as the possible site of a new rail storage yard that will be needed to store trains overnight as the Long Island Railroad increases service.
Mr. Weber said a rail yard would make the mall impossible but suggested that residents would prefer the mall to the trains. The residents were not ready to concede that. "We are open to many other types of development," Mr. Fabricant said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mall at Oyster Bay, covering 860,000 square feet, would be built on the site of an abandoned Cerro Wire and Cable Company plant. (The Taubman Company); (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)
 
Map of Nassau shows the proposed site of mall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CERRO WIRE & CABLE CO INC (72%); SYOSSET SCHOOL DISTRICT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYOSSET SCHOOL DISTRICT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (88%); ZONING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (74%); SALES TAX (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



559 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 3026 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
An Up Cycle Just Keeps Rolling

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
OFFICE vacancies are approaching record lows and rental rates reaching record highs in Manhattan. Despite the demand, there is no speculative construction in the city, with the few buildings that are being constructed substantially preleased before a shovel went into the ground.
Across the Hudson River along the New Jersey waterfront, buildings are being occupied as fast as they can be built as securities firms are moving their back-office operations one stop west of Manhattan on the PATH rail line. Even in Westchester, which has tended to lag the rest of the area in occupancy, growth by local companies is filling up long-vacant space. 
 The business of leasing to retailers in New York is booming, with areas like 14th Street and Madison Avenue in the upper 20's attracting new attention. The city's hotels are packed despite the addition of new rooms.
The real estate business in the metropolitan area is in the midst of a period of prosperity so extended that it has prompted people with long memories to ask "How long can this go on?"
The consensus answer appears to be: For the next two or three years at least, provided the national economy does not swoon. With lenders still exerting firm discipline on developers, there is little danger of overbuilding and even slowed growth is still growth, which means more jobs and a need for space to put people.
"I must tell you this all makes me very nervous, but I can't see any clouds in the sky," said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company. She said that history demonstrates every upsurge in rental rates and property prices has been followed by a downturn, but that in the current market "there is no new supply and demand is overwhelming."
According to a report by Insignia/ESG, the vacancy rate in Manhattan is under 4 percent for the first time in memory, and the average asking rental for all transactions of more than 10,000 square feet at midyear was $48.66, which the report describes as an all-time high. (A year ago it was $38.43.)
Internet-related companies, which did not exist a few years ago, were the largest leasers of new space in the first half of this year, accounting for 20 percent of the total, up from 3 percent a year earlier. The city's traditional mainstay, the financial industry, was nudged out of first place, accounting for 19.8 percent of space leased.
The growth of this new industry and the consequent diversification of the city's economy have some people suggesting that the rules have changed and that the old boom-and-bust real estate economy has been permanently changed. "New York's real estate industry has had its share of busts and booms over the past few decades, but the current real estate cycle is unlike any other seen since the dawn of the industrial age," said a report prepared by Colliers ABR, a real estate services company. "The abundance of current economic and real estate data suggests that not only does this recovery still have room to grow, but that the real estate cycles as most people remember them may be a thing of the past."
But many seasoned executives said they were not ready to accept a relentlessly rosy future. "Something is going to happen -- it always does," said Steven Swerdlow, executive managing director for the eastern division of CB Richard Ellis, the brokerage and services company. He said if the national economy were mismanaged, interest rates could soar and the value of stocks decline.
"We could have a hard landing rather than a soft one and a plunge in the stock market," he said. "New York is much more sensitive to the stock market than other cities."
Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, a brokerage and management company, said New York is much more sensitive to faraway events then it once was because of the links among financial markets.
"It will probably be something that nobody predicted," he said. "Some event somewhere in the world will have an impact here." He recalled that problems with foreign currencies and the near-collapse of a large investment fund roiled capital markets in the fall of 1998, including the one for commercial mortgage-backed securities. This dried up financing for sales transactions and put a temporary cap on the prices offered for properties.
Indeed, some real estate executives argue that the stumble in 1998 helped to prolong the good times by squelching any possibility of a new wave of speculative building. Such a wave of building in the mid- and late 1980's prolonged the downturn of the early 1990's by bringing large blocks of new office space to a market where demand was dropping.
"We might have had lending for speculative building but for the crunch of the fall of 1998 and early 1999," said Robert Billingsley, an executive vice president of Colliers. "That gave pause to potentially irrational behavior and in hindsight was a good thing."
Other executives added other notes of wariness. Anthony E. Malkin, the president of W&M Properties, an investor and development company, said: "Whatever happens to change the market will be unexpected. You have a situation where the average apartment in Manhattan costs over $700,000. How is that sustainable? There is inevitably going to be a shakeout."
Bruce E. Mosler, the president for United States operations for Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company, said he expected the real estate cycle to endure, but with the peaks not as high and the valleys not as low as before.
"We are still adding jobs in the city, which means growth, even if we will slow to about 75,000 new jobs this year from 89,000 in 1999," he said. He predicted the remaining industrial property on the far west side of Manhattan would be redeveloped and the exodus to New Jersey would continue.
Because developers still cannot get financing for speculative building, he said, any such projects will be of modest size. "You have to tie up too much equity to do a one million square foot building, so if there is any speculative building, it will be in the 150,000 to 300,000 square foot range," he said.
Although space will remain scarce, the recent run-up in rents may not be sustainable, some executives say. "The rise in rents will have to level off because they are beginning to run into people's ability to pay," said Mr. Swerdlow. He said small and medium-size service organizations, like law firms, would be forced to leave the city or to enter into unwanted mergers.
Mr. Gosin agrees. "We are getting to a point where some tenants cannot afford the rent," he said. "There are high-margin businesses and low-margin business, and it is the low-margin service companies that are being affected."
Some corporate executives, political officials and urban planners fear that allowing economics to force certain types of business out of the city could unbalance the economic mix and make it difficult to attract new businesses. Some are trying to devise incentive programs that would keep the companies pushed out of Manhattan in the city by encouraging development in the boroughs outside of Manhattan.
Some real estate executives say that rents will continue to increase in locations that are considered desirable and that the tenants who are unable to pay will consider moving across the Hudson or to other areas of the city.
Ms. Tighe pointed to the recent decision by a publishing house, John Wiley & Sons, to leave its longtime location on Third Avenue at 39th Street for a new building to be developed in Hoboken by SJP Properties. Wiley will move 800 people into 400,000 square feet of the building, which is expected to be completed in early 2002.
"That company was in Manhattan for 94 years, but Hoboken is only one stop away on the PATH train," Ms. Tighe said. "What is happening is that the boundaries of the city are being redefined. There was a time when downtown was dead; now downtown is wonderful. There were other areas that were considered unacceptable; now the island is seamless from 60th street south."
This process of adding outlying areas to what tenants perceive as the central business district continues with each up cycle, she continued. "It took several cycles," she said, "to establish Metrotech in Brooklyn and the Jersey coast," referring to the west bank of the Hudson River. "Maybe this is the cycle that makes Long Island City acceptable."
Although Long Island City in Queens is closer to the east side of Manhattan than the New Jersey riverfront is and has good transportation links, its buildings are mostly former factories or distribution centers and not as attractive as the new buildings going up in Jersey City and Hoboken.
Nevertheless, the area has been designated by planners for decades as the site of the fourth concentration of office space, after midtown and downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn.
"Queens is probably next," said Ross Moskowitz, a partner in the law firm of Stroock, Stroock & Lavan and a former official of the city's Economic Development Corporation. "Queens West is ready for bid, with two million square feet of commercial space with retail and entertainment components," he said, referring to the waterfront development jointly controlled by the city, state and Port Authority. "The project is ready to go, and I expect that we will see active bidding."
The strong rental market is being reflected in the price of buildings being sold, said James D. Kuhn, the president of Newmark. He said that Class A buildings -- the newest, most modern buildings -- were selling at more than $400 a square feet in Manhattan, compared with $300 a square foot just a few years ago. He noted that Equity Office Properties, whose chairman is Sam Zell, the Chicago-based real estate investor, paid more than $400 a square foot for the building at 1301 Avenue of the Americas at 52nd Street.
"Sam Zell was a bottom fisher in the early 90's," buying distressed properties at low prices, Mr. Kuhn said. "Now he has sent a signal to the marketplace that rent levels in New York are sustainable."
Some blockbuster deals are likely in the coming year, he said, with Rockefeller Center, the World Trade Center, the Seagram Building and other trophies on the block in one fashion or another. He predicted that a New York area real estate investment trust would eventually win the bidding for Rockefeller Center. "That is the best real estate in the world," he said.
Following are descriptions of the state of the market in other sectors:
 
The Suburbs
A Riverfront Boom In New Jersey
The western shore of the Hudson River facing Manhattan is in the throes of development as Wall Street companies are building space for their back office operations that support the money-making front office activities that are still in Manhattan. And the buildings are filling up as fast as they can be built or renovated.
"We have no space," said Seena Stein, president of Newmark's New Jersey operations. "The vacancy rate in Class A on the waterfront is 0.2 percent, and rents are at a record high of $36.25 a square foot."
Ms. Stein said anyone wanting space on the waterfront would have to wait at least a year until a construction project is finished. She said this delay has pushed some deals west to Newark, the next stop on the PATH line.
One big New York financial house that is changing the skyline in Jersey City is the Goldman Sachs Group, which purchased land in Colgate Center near the southern end of the city's waterfront across the water from the World Trade Center.
The group plans to build three structures totaling about three million square feet of space. Work is already under way on the first building, which will have about 1.3 million square feet of space.
Merrill Lynch and Chase Bank are also expanding their support operations in Jersey City, and each could eventually have thousands of employees working across the Hudson from Manhattan.
Development spread north to Hoboken this year, when the Wiley deal was signed in August. The publisher will occupy one of two SJP Properties in what is being called the Waterfront Corporate Center. The development is to include offices, retail space, a hotel and housing.
Elsewhere in New Jersey the office market is strong, but the obstacles to development are preventing any hint of overbuilding, said Donald Eisen, the director of the suburban operations of Cushman & Wakefield. In New Jersey, "you have a market of about 150 million square feet of space and maybe one to two million square feet going up," he said. "That's minuscule."
He said he hoped efforts to develop established cities like Jersey City, Hoboken and Newark represented a trend that might halt or slow the endless sprawl of development across the state. "New Jersey needs to push development where the infrastructure is -- and that is in urban areas," he said. "You just have to be creative."
He said one good example of creative redevelopment was the conversion of an old IT&T industrial site along Route 3 in Essex County to a new shopping mall called Clifton Commons.
Westchester County, which had appeared to be lagging behind the rest of the metropolitan area in leasing activity, is experiencing an upsurge as locally based companies began to expand. Some real estate executives said the vacancy statistics in the county had been distorted by the presence of former corporate headquarters buildings that have been difficult to divide for new tenants.
"There are buildings like the former Kraft headquarters that add 500,000 square feet to the vacancy numbers, but don't reflect what is actually happening in the market," said Kenneth M. Krasnow, a regional managing director at Cushman & Wakefield. "Westchester suffered a lot from corporate downsizing, but now homegrown companies are beginning to take space. The company that had 5,000 or 10,000 square feet of space three or four years ago now needs 25,000 to 30,000 square feet."
Jeffrey H. Newman, an executive vice president of W&M Properties, which owns 1.5 million square feet of property in Westchester County and Fairfield County in Connecticut, said, "Companies like Sara Lee and Chock Full o' Nuts have been leaving Manhattan and moving to Westchester." .
He said his company had concentrated in buying existing buildings and then renovating them to bring them up to Class A standards. In White Plains, "at 500 Mamaroneck we had to pull shag carpeting off the walls," Mr. Malkin, the president of W&M Properties, said.
As vacancies have diminished, rental rates have risen, although they are still low compared with Manhattan. "Space that was renting for $17 a square foot a year or so ago is now $26 to $30 a square foot," Mr. Newman said.
Long Island, Mr. Krasnow said, is in the midst of a transition from defense companies to a new high-tech economy. The buildings that once housed companies making airplanes and other military goods are being transformed into locations for software and telecommunications organizations.
 
Retail
Retailers Try Areas Previously Shunned
Retailers are balking at paying higher rents in fashionable areas of Manhattan and instead are looking for stores in areas once considered less desirable, brokers specializing in store leasing said. According to a survey conducted by Garrick-Aug Associates, the average asking rent at midyear was $77.50 a square foot, up just 0.6 percent from $77 a square foot in the first six months of 1999.
"Rents are at all-time highs, and people don't want to look stupid, especially the national chains," said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug. "So they are looking at new areas, such as Madison Avenue north of Madison Square Park."
Ms. Consolo said this area was bolstered by the decision by Credit Suisse First Boston to move into the building at 11 Madison Avenue at 25th Street, the influx of new restaurants and the renovation of hotels. "What happened to the Flatiron district is moving north," she said, referring to the area near the famous triangular building at 23rd Street and Broadway.
"I have had retailers asking me to look at locations on 14th Street," said Alan Victor, an executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation, a retail broker. "They want to be there because they think it is new and fresh and young."
He said retailers are looking at places like 14th Street, which was known in the past for its downscale stores, because the rents in preferred locations have become prohibitive. "You are talking $600 a square foot on Madison Avenue and $500 to $600 a square foot on Fifth Avenue, if you can find it," he said.
He said retailers often had a difficult time negotiating with landlords because there were multiple bidders for space.
 
Hotels
Occupancy Jumps, Along With Prices
Even though the millennium was a bit of a bust for hotel owners and operators, with demand well below what some had hoped for, occupancy rates in the city's hotels remained near historic highs and revenues grew quickly as room rates rose.
"We have seen revenue growth of an average of 13 percent in the first half of this year and 20 percent in some segments of the market," said Sean Hennessey, director of the New York hospitality and leisure practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm.
The occupancy rate at midyear was 89.2 percent, up from 82.9 percent a year earlier. And analysts say the strong statistics do not fully reflect the intensity of demand, because many hotels are so full on some nights they have to turn away prospective guests. "I had some clients come into town, and they had to stay in Stamford because there was nothing available for them in the city," Mr. Hennessey said.
Although some 1,400 hotel rooms have recently been added to the city's supply of approximately 70,000, the unceasing demand has pushed up daily rates. The average daily rate at midyear was $215.55, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, up from $200.23 a year earlier.
As an indication of how far New York is ahead of the rest of the country, the firm reported that the average daily rate nationally is $84.51.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: National retailers are increasingly moving into areas like Madison Avenue's southern end. This view looks north from 23rd Street.; Offices are replacing a Colgate-Palmolive toothpaste factory in Jersey City; 90 Hudson Street, left, is occupied. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Equity Office Properties paid more than $400 a square foot for the building at 1301 Avenue of the Americas, at 52nd Street.; Work is under way on the first of three buildings the Goldman Sachs Group is putting up in Jersey City across from the World Trade Center. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "Supply and Demand"
Rents are annual average asking rents per square foot for all office buildings in Manhattan south of 60th Street. Vacancy rates are for all office buildings in the same area.
 
Graph tracks annual average asking rents since 1980.
(Source: Colliers ABR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



560 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: What's Entertainment? That Depends...

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA KUEHL

 BODY:
REMEMBER what fun it was rushing Snowball to the vet after he gulped down a badminton birdie? Hey, you protest, that was not fun. Nevertheless, that's entertainment, according to the United States government.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which annually surveys Americans about their spending habits, includes veterinary expenses in its "entertainment" category. Not classified as entertainment: reading, dining out and using a home computer, omissions that might give the bibliophile, the gourmand and the chat-room addict pause. The bureau also leaves out gambling, which some experts say is the most popular form of outside-the-home recreation in America. 
 The bureau's sometimes curious choices prompt the question: What is entertainment, anyway? And what factors -- genetic, geographic, chronologic, socioeconomic -- determine that some people, like Beth Henderson of Ashford, Conn., meet their entertainment needs through contemplative pursuits like reading and gardening, while others, like Rina Isaac of White Plains, embrace pulse-pounding activities like mountain biking and archery? What impels Dr. Alfred Scherzer of Hampton Bays, N.Y., to travel to Somalia to gaze at maribou storks, or Donald Wayne of Piscataway, N.J., to amass 100,000 postcards, including one made out of kangaroo skin?
Social scientists say the human hunger for entertainment may be as old as society itself. "I don't know that we have any sort of archaeological evidence of entertainment, per se," said Daniel Fessler, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of California at Los Angeles, whose research fields include evolutionary psychology and psychological anthropology. "But what we do have is the observation that all known human societies have entertainment of some fashion, and that suggests that it's very old indeed."
A society without entertainment "would be a pretty frightening thing," said Frank A. Salamone, a professor of sociology at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., and the author of "Society, Culture, Leisure and Play: An Anthropological Reference" (University Press of America, 2000).
Entertainment "lets us dream," he said.
"It's imagination," he added. "Play at its best gives us a million options."
As a noun, "play" commonly refers to the games of children. Adults, too old to zip into playsuits, instead put on "leisure wear" to "recreate." But whether it's called leisure, recreation or entertainment, when an activity is "nonproductive, in other words, the aim is not a product, the aim is the experience," that's play, and adults need to do it, said John R. Kelly, a sociologist and the author of 11 books about leisure.
"We are working creatures, we are bonding creatures," he said, "and we are playing creatures."
In the New York metropolitan statistical area -- which includes New York City, Westchester, Long Island, most of northern and central New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut -- households spent an average of $1,835 annually on entertainment in 1997-98, according to the Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That number, though, is misleadingly low. Besides pet care, the bureau's list of entertainments includes movies and sporting events; hobbies, toys and games; television sets, videos and stereos; and sporting and exercise equipment. But add items like dining out, alcoholic beverages and reading, and the amount jumps to almost $5,200 a year, or more than 10 percent of the average household's pretax income. Add still more -- lottery tickets, Internet access, the incalculable costs of recreational shopping, and major investments, like the room Mr. Wayne added onto his New Jersey home to accommodate his collections -- and entertainment costs can soar.
In some years, Dr. Scherzer, 71, spends more than $5,000 to watch birds in exotic locales. A practicing pediatrician and emeritus professor of pediatrics at Cornell Medical College, he is a co-president of the Moriches Bay Audubon Society, which has more than 750 members and covers a territory extending from Patchogue to the tip of the South Fork.
In 35 years as a birder, Dr. Scherzer said, he has logged 1,500 to 2,000 species, many in his backyard, figuratively speaking. "Eastern Long Island is very unusual, because the land mass involves the Atlantic Ocean on the east and the bays on the west, and it's right on the flyway of the eastern migration of birds that come down virtually from the North Pole on their way to South America," he said.
According to Dr. Kelly, who is a co-author with Rodney B. Warnick of "Recreation Trends and Markets: The 21st Century" (Sagamore, 1999), bird-watching is increasingly popular, especially among older adults, a population that grows with each aging baby boomer. In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, membership in National Audubon Society chapters has climbed almost 17 percent in the last decade, to nearly 72,000, an Audubon Society spokesman said.
At the Morton National Wildlife Refuge, a slender peninsula west of Sag Harbor, N.Y., that includes both upland and shore habitats, naturalists have documented roughly 280 species, and last year people flocked to see them. Attendance for 1998-99 reached almost 82,000, more than double the number of a decade ago, said Bob Parris, the deputy project leader for the Long Island National Wildlife Refuge Complex, which includes Morton and eight other sites.
Dr. Scherzer said he liked to visit Morton in the off-season, when the crowds are sparser. There, he holds out his hand to the black-capped chickadees, which, secure in their protected area, boldly peck sunflower seeds from a human palm. "It's just a nice experience," Dr. Scherzer said, "that little furry thing on your finger."
 
Variety of Influences
Economics, education, sex, religion, family background and age all influence entertainment choices. Up to 20 percent of Americans have no discretionary income for entertainment, while 10 percent can afford to spend "significant amounts" on fun, according to "Recreation Trends and Markets." Further, some Americans have little discretionary time, Dr. Kelly said, citing people who hold two jobs to support a family, mothers who shoulder a full-time job and take care of their families, too, and workers who may lose hours of recreation time to commuting.
Choices also spring from living in a particular time and place. "What was incredibly amusing in 1890 is now seen to be no longer funny, for the most part," said Dr. Salamone, the Iona professor. "See two minutes of a German film, and you know it's German. Broadly speaking, English jokes aren't funny in the United States, no matter what background people have. Why do the French like Jerry Lewis? I never understood that."
People also choose activities that balance their lives. "If you work in a steel mill all day, you don't rush out to play tennis when you leave the job," Dr. Kelly said. And for reasons that are still little understood, he said, some people are risk takers who like to play on the edge, others are intensely self-protective and need a comfort zone, and the majority fall between the two extremes.
Ms. Isaac, 38, who teaches first graders in Manhattan, said that skiing, hiking, biking and archery help keep her balanced. "When I leave the city, I need to revive my soul," she said. "I make sure I am with nature."
The bow and arrow, which she took up three years ago, require a concentration and focus that send her deep into herself. "You only hear your pulse, your heartbeat -- you can feel your sweat," she said. "It's a competition between my physical self and my mind."
Games generally fall into one of two categories: those that combine physical skill and strategy, and those that combine strategy and chance, said Garry Chick, an associate professor of leisure studies at Pennsylvania State University. Players who excel in the first category reap more prestige, he said.
Ms. Isaac said one benefit from her archery is a new identity. "People call me Rina the Archer, Pocahontas," she said. "They say, 'The wild woman is here.' People see you on another level: 'Hey, that person shoots, and that's awesome.' "
 
The Couch Potato
If archers inspire awe, couch potatoes draw sneers. But watching television remains Americans' prime pastime at night, a Gallup Poll reported in March 1999. Results of another Gallup Poll in January show that 57 percent of Americans watch three or more hours of television a day.
Television delivers story after story, feeding the human need for narrative, which, along with dance, is a universal form of entertainment, said Dr. Fessler of U.C.L.A. Some theorists say that entertainment, like cooking, may be a tradition passed down from ancestral societies. But Dr. Fessler said it may instead be an evolved psychology, a desire that became embedded in the human mind through evolution.
Unfortunately, Dr. Fessler said, evolved psychologies can become insatiable. "If you could afford it, and I guess some people can," he said, "you can just plug yourself into entertainment all of your waking hours and never leave the house."
Meanwhile, more narratives await at the local multiplex. Between 1989 and 1999, the number of movie screens in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose 60 percent, to 3,470, according to the National Association of Theater Owners. Box offices nationwide took in $7.49 billion in 1999, and Americans spent an additional $17.36 billion renting and buying movies, according to the Video Software Dealers Association.
Luckily for literacy, the stories on library shelves still beckon. According to "Recreation Trends and Markets," more than 90 million adult Americans read books, and the number is rising. In early September, Ms. Henderson, 57, said she was reading six: a memoir, a biography, a travelogue, two local histories and a Harry Potter. A former teacher and school administrator who is now a sculptor, Ms. Henderson said that she spent $75 to $100 a month on newspapers, magazines and books, and combed the library stacks in Ashford and Mansfield, Conn., for free riches. "One of the things I like about reading is that it really promotes the use of your imagination, a lot more than watching a movie, for example," she said.
In contrast, gambling, which Professors Kelly and Warnick describe as "the largest single 'recreation' activity outside the home," doesn't so much promote imagination as feed off it, as gamblers imagine themselves rich.
Their imaginations were working overtime in 1999 as Americans wagered more than $742 billion, according to an industry analyst, Christiansen Capital Advisors. That's 99 times last year's national movie box-office receipts, and almost triple the amount people wagered in 1989.
In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, dreamers spent $6.2 billion on lottery tickets in 1998-99, 73 percent more than a decade ago, according to figures provided by state lottery officials. And gamblers wagered $43.5 billion in Atlantic City casinos in 1999, about twice what they spent in 1989, according to New Jersey Casino Control Commission figures.
Gambling, which falls into the strategy-and-chance category of games, creates "a kind of an artificial excitement," Dr. Kelly said.
"You don't have to gain any skill to pull levers and push buttons," he said, "but something is happening and you're involved in it and you have a certain stake in it." Gambling choices and styles vary. Some play bingo for fun, others buy lottery tickets out of financial desperation. "That isn't play," he said. "That's waiting to be struck by lightning."
 
Hooked On Collecting
Gamblers and collectors are both treasure seekers, but collectors rarely go home empty-handed.
There are four clubs in New Jersey for postcard collectors, known as deltiologists, and Mr. Wayne belongs to three of them, including the Central Jersey Deltiological Society, of which he is president. A serious collector since the mid-1960's, Mr. Wayne, 65, said he went "a little berserk" over novelty cards. Besides the kangaroo-skin oddity, he owns cards made of Irish peat, celluloid, aluminum, leather, macerated money and woven silk.
But his acquisitive days are winding down, Mr. Wayne said, because even with the extra room, "the house is full." Still, a collector can dream. At a recent postcard show in Clark, N.J., Mr. Wayne pointed out a man who claimed to own a million cards. "People revere him as one of the icons of the postcard world," Mr. Wayne said. "At least, I do."
Somewhere in the United States is someone who collects just about every kind of object, Dr. Kelly said. Add up all the collections -- stamps, coins, rocks, bones, thimbles, Hummel figurines, comic books, ice cream scoops, barbed wire and everything else -- and "you probably have a fairly significant part of the adult population," he said.
Collectors form groups, attend meetings and publish journals. "The social aspects become very important," Dr. Kelly said.
Mr. Wayne, a retired math teacher who also collects slide rules and books about space, said he couldn't expect people to appreciate the thrill of postcards unless they saw his treasures. Even then they might not understand. Such passions develop over time, and the impulses behind them are often complex.
Although it is easy simply to mock somebody else's idea of fun, the Bureau of Labor Statistics contends that it has valid reasons for each omission from the Consumer Expenditure Survey's entertainment category. For example, the bureau deems reading more informational than entertaining, said Bill Passero, a senior economist. Dining out is a subcategory under food, and gambling is a miscellaneous expenditure, Mr. Passero said, noting that many regard it not as entertainment but as an investment with a possible return.
As for pet care, it's been part of entertainment (formerly "recreation") since at least 1950, according to bureau records. Where else would you put it? Mr. Passero wondered.
Mr. Wayne, for one, said the notion of pets as entertainment made sense. He and his wife have two Shetland sheepdogs. "They're a riot," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Felipe Galindo)(pgs. 2, 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF AMERICA INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHAT ROOMS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EXTREME SPORTS (69%); WRITERS (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); ARCHERY (52%); CYCLING (52%); 

PERSON: DON JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



561 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 26; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Candlebra and Crayons: Fine Dining With Children

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN

 BODY:
FIRST, a confession. David C. (his real name) and his wife once took two young children to dine in a fancy restaurant.
It was a lovely place, on a seashore, with sweeping views and dramatic lighting and romantic silences and hand-printed menus and hand-painted place settings and . . . he remembers nothing about the meal except Daniel, 7, and Katie, 4, filling every one of those silences with giggles, shrieks, whimpers, howls, multiple restroom visits, wrestling holds and even more extreme behavior, involving croutons and water glasses, that cannot be described here until we are sure the statute of limitations has expired. 
 Mistakes were made, all right?
In the seven summers since that regrettable incident, David has become a restaurant critic, and Daniel and Katie, now 14 and 11, have matured into paragons of patience and decorum. Now he'll take them anywhere -- well, almost anywhere.
As it turns out, more has changed in those seven years than just that everyone is older.
The dining world is changing too, becoming far more hospitable to children, even the very young. And parents, learning from their peers or from their own instinct and experience, seem to be getting smarter about managing their meals out.
These changes are driven by a perceptible shift in the culture -- a gradual but welcome lightening of the solemn mood that used to cling to "fine dining" like an ermine cloak -- as well as by demographics and economic necessity.
"You have to realize what's going on and change with it," said Ken Gebhardt, who with his brother, Buddy, owns the highly regarded Park and Orchard restaurant in East Rutherford. "The couples who used to go out to eat four or five times a week 10 years ago are having kids. You have to welcome them, or they won't go out."
A few definitions are in order here. "Dining" is not the same as "eating." We are not talking about McDonald's or Chuck E. Cheese, indispensable as those places are, but about restaurants where adults might reasonably expect to spend an hour or more eating individually prepared dishes, perhaps with a glass of wine, having adult conversations about adult topics (like their daughter's latest soccer game) and gazing into each other's eyes.
"Children," for the purpose of this article, means preschool children. By the age of 6 or 7, most children can sit still for most of a meal without lapsing into aggressively annoying behavior, particularly if no younger brother or sister is around to egg them on.
Indeed, for a first or second grader, an evening at a fine restaurant can be an overwhelmingly positive experience for everyone involved.
"There's something wonderful about taking a 6- or 8-year-old out for dinner," said Dr. Joy Browne, the call-in psychologist on radio station WOR in New York, whom I interviewed because I'd once heard her taking a hard line against young children in restaurants. "Different food, different setting, fancy silverware, and someone who treats them very well and puts a napkin in their lap. It teaches patience, good manners, elegance -- all those grown-up things that are in short supply. The problem is people who take very young children, who can't sit still, make a lot of noise and run through the restaurant, ruining everyone else's romantic night out."
And of course, all children are different. Your 3-year-old, for example, is far better behaved than your best friend's twins, who regularly throw tantrums when they aren't removing articles of clothing.
Leslie Brenner, a novelist and food writer in Brooklyn who responded to a query for this article on the Web site Chowhound.com, says she has had reasonable success with her 3 1/2-year-old son, Wylie, but she marveled one night at a 3-year-old girl in the high-end Manhattan restaurant Daniel, "sitting there very primly between her parents, looking just like a doll."
Within those limits, here are some tips, gleaned from interviews with restaurant owners, veteran diners and others, for baby-sitter-challenged parents warily contemplating a night out with a small child or two.
CHOOSING A RESTAURANT These days, almost all restaurants but those at the highest end claim to be child-friendly; they can hardly afford not to be. Many offer children's menus; many have high chairs and booster seats. "A co-worker who used to wait tables says keeping the kids happy is one of the best ways to get a higher tip," noted John Piekarski of Denville, an online editor who with his wife often takes their 2-year-old out to eat.
Apart from any economic motivation, many restaurant owners, chefs, managers and servers genuinely like children and do their best to make them feel at home. Mr. Gebhardt, of Park and Orchard, says that when children finish eating before their parents do, waiters will happily taken them on a tour of the kitchen, which includes carnival attractions like giant mixers and a refrigerator big enough to stand up in.
(On the other hand, an e-mail correspondent told me of a headwaiter at a snooty restaurant in Greenwich Village who was overheard telling a customer: "Yes, madam, we do serve children here. On pita bread.")
But while most restaurants are at least tolerant of small diners, some kinds of places seem to have a higher batting average than others. "Ethnic" restaurants -- a term that encompasses African-American, Asian, Latino and Middle Eastern but not, for some reason, French or Italian -- are generally comfortable with young children, perhaps because they tend to be family-run. Such restaurants often incorporate their own amusements: fish tanks, tortilla makers, fortune cookies.
Some parents look for restaurants with banquettes, where a child can lie down without attracting other diners' attention. And high noise levels, so often an impediment to an enjoyable meal, can be great camouflage for the fussing of an impatient toddler. Jon Shure of Ewing, the president of a policy think tank in Trenton, remembers taking his son, then 1 year old, to Obrycki's, the famed crab house in Baltimore. "Everybody was talking loudly and pounding the tables with mallets," he said. "Joseph fit right in."
PLANNING AHEAD Most children eat early. So it pays to reserve early -- 5 p.m., if that's when the restaurant opens -- and to call ahead to warn the staff that children will be along. That way, you can be seated in a corner, out of harm's way, said Sam Nativo, chef and owner of Uptown in Long Branch, who added, "If a family comes in at 8 with three little kids, we seat them, but we try to calm the other customers."
Virtually every parent who responded to my Internet query suggested carrying along some tools of the trade: crayons, drawing paper, Magna Doodle, even a small reseaable bag of Legos. Others recommended a pre-emptive strike against the crankiness that comes with hunger pangs. "Go to the drive-through window at McDonald's, get her a Happy Meal and make sure she finishes it before we get to the restaurant," said Pete Feliz, a Bronx man who works as a doorman in Manhattan, about his daughter, Vicky, now 9. "She becomes more cooperative and adventurous if she's got a Happy Meal under her belt."
SETTING AN ATTITUDE Long before the evening out, it may be possible to find out whether the child and fine dining are ready for each other. "Set up a table in the kitchen," said Dr. Browne, the psychologist. "Put out candles, silver, china, water glasses, and bring in the neighborhood baby sitter to serve. If the kid behaves well, fine. If not, don't even think of taking her out for another year."
Attitude matters in the restaurant, too.
"Parental control is key," said Deborah Roark, the food and beverage director of the Birmingham Athletic Club in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who has a 3-year-old daughter of her own. "If the parent is not willing to supervise the child, no one has a good experience."
Several parents echoed that thought, but Ms. Brenner, the writer in Brooklyn, offered a variation. When she and her husband take 3-year-old Wylie out, they try to get everyone on their side: staff, fellow diners and, of course, Wylie himself.
"Taking a hard edge is exactly the wrong approach," she said. "Kids are so willful, they're going to react against you. If you can generate some enthusiasm, make the child excited, he'll rise to the occasion. He'll see it as a special experience and want to do it another time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dara Goldman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PARK&ORCHARD RESTAURANT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (70%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: KEN GEBHARDT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



562 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: VENTURES;
They're on the Scene When Tires Go Pffft

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN

 BODY:
It's a tough job but somebody's got. . . .
Actually, nobody really has to do it. But in the service economy that thrives in New York, more flat tire repair shops are able to survive than one might guess. Several businesses that will fix a flat tire for $5 to $10 are situated along a strip of west Midtown occupied by gas stations, parking lots and turn-of-the-century tenements. 
 One of these businesses, Frank's Tires, occupies the ground floor of a three-story, red-brick apartment building at 449 10th Avenue. The shop is situated between 10th Avenue Taxi Parts and 35th Street. If no customers have pulled up, a passer-by might see Juan Flores, Mario Lael and other employees sitting in grease-stained office chairs, chatting and watching the traffic head uptown.
On a recent afternoon, Brian Ramos, a Flushing resident who works at Chelsea Piers, pulled up in his '91 Honda Accord with a flat right rear tire.
"I was going down 23rd Street," he said, "and some guy in a truck was like, 'Yo, you got a flat.' I knew there were a lot of these places on 10th Avenue."
Most of the cars that use the service -- about 85 percent according to the shop's owner, Frank Im -- are taxis, which he said take much more abuse and are much more likely to get a flat than private cars.
Mr. Im charges taxis $5 to fix a flat, which usually takes 5 to 10 minutes. Private cars, which return less often, are charged $10.
Mr. Im, 24, a recent graduate of the State University of New York at Albany, inherited the store from his father, George, who owned it for more than 25 years.
"I used to come here when I was 7 or 8 years old," the younger Mr. Im said. "Back then, we used to see crack heads, drug dealers, prostitutes, syringes on the floor. But ever since they built the Javits Center, everything has just gotten better."
On a Monday morning, a driver for the Concord Limousine Company of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, pulled up in a shiny black Lincoln Town Car.
"Slow leak," he said, as Mr. Lael, 20, who lives on Northern Boulevard in Queens, stepped out to see what needed to be done.
Just then, another driver with the same company pulled up behind him.
"What's up, 300," said the driver, who would identify himself only as Alex.
"The new car got a flat tire," said the driver of car No. 300, Hany Elshafei. "What's wrong with you?"
"A new car can't get a flat tire?" Alex asked.
Mr. Elshafei had been driving on his spare that morning, after discovering a flat at Newark Airport the night before.
"Last night I'm taking a customer to Metuchen, 1 o'clock in the morning," he said. "When I come back. . . ." his voice trailed off, no need to state the obvious. AARON DONOVAN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Im watching Juan Flores work. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (77%); GAS STATIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); 

PERSON: FRANK IM (87%); HANY ELSHAFEI (61%); MARIO LAEL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



563 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Thriving Despite AIDS

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Judge's Ruling Puts City AIDS Agency Under U.S. Monitor" (front page, Sept. 20): 
 I commend Housing Works, the AIDS advocacy group that brought the suit resulting in the court's ruling, for its efforts in trying to improve access to services for people with H.I.V.-AIDS in New York City. But the comment by the group's staff lawyer, Armen Merjian, that most people living with AIDS "have no choice but to be on the dole" is a fallacy.
Thousands of people with AIDS are able to work and engage in the same daily activities as people who are free of H.I.V. To equate an AIDS diagnosis with an inability to provide for oneself feeds a dangerous misconception and does a disservice to the countless people with H.I.V.-AIDS who are living, working and thriving despite their diagnosis.
 
MARLA HASSNER
Brooklyn, Sept. 21, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIDS & HIV (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); JUDGES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



564 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD;
Preserving the Forest By Leasing the Trees

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
IT'S a hard sell.
In trying to persuade developing nations to protect their wilderness areas, environmentalists often meet strong resistance. Why would any country forgo badly needed revenue and the chance to foster economic activity by creating a national park rather than allowing the commercial development of its land? 
 One environmental group thinks it has come up with a way to spare governments from such a choice. The Conservation International Foundation, based in Washington, is in the final stages of buying the long-term logging rights to 200,000 acres of pristine South American rain forest. The group expects to spend several million dollars over the next 25 years to protect the land, in southern Guyana, with what it calls a "conservation concession."
And Guyana is just the start. Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Cambodia may be next.
Concessions -- development rights to land -- are often sold by governments to timber or mining companies and are readily available for huge stretches of tropical rain forest. Desperate for development, many governments are willing to lease the logging rights to public lands at an extraordinarily cheap price -- often just a few dollars an acre.
"Too many of the great ecosystems of the world have a low price on their head," said Craig McCaw, the telecommunications entrepreneur and a member of the Conservation International board. He has given $5 million toward the creation of the group's new fund to help conserve wilderness areas.
Conservation International has always favored using business strategies to protect the environment and has been aggressive in promoting economic alternatives, like ecotourism, to traditional development. In the late 1980's, the group pioneered the concept of swapping debt owed by a government for commitments to conserve land. Its board also includes business luminaries like Gordon E. Moore, a co-founder of Intel; Michael Eisner, the Disney chairman; and Barry Diller, the chairman of USA Networks.
"If you don't do the economics, you don't win, you don't succeed in the long term," said Peter Seligmann, the chairman and chief executive of Conservation International.
The group worked with Hardner & Gullison Associates, a consulting firm in Palo Alto, Calif., to come up with the idea of competing directly with private businesses to win long-term concessions for public lands. By paying an amount that compensates the government for any lost jobs or economic activity, Conservation International hopes to ensure that local people still benefit -- usually through job-creation or education programs. "Unless the local people are committed to it, it just isn't going to work," Mr. Seligmann said.
ENVIRONMENTAL groups have had limited success with other approaches to protecting wilderness areas. While countries have created some national parks, the process of convincing governments to set aside the land -- and to ensure that it remains undisturbed -- can be slow. The World Bank has spent years trying to help Guyana create a system of national parks, but has only started making some progress.
Groups like the Nature Conservancy have had success buying land in the United States but have had difficulty acquiring large wilderness areas elsewhere. In some countries, large sales to outsiders are viewed as threats to sovereignty, although the Nature Conservancy says it tries to prevent such problems by working with local environmental groups on purchases.
 Conservation International and the Nature Conservancy have also bought out private owners of timber rights in Bolivia, where they were able to add the land to the national park system.
The idea of buying concessions directly from governments has "great potential," said Elizabeth Losos, the director for the Center for Tropical Forest Science at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. "There are far more lands slated for timber than for protected areas," she said.
She cautioned, however, that no single approach was the answer to saving rain forests. "Everyone is looking for the silver bullet," she said, adding that environmentalists were often quick to back away from ideas if they did not prove to be clear successes.
In Guyana, which has encouraged timber cutting as a way to stimulate its struggling economy, the idea of encouraging conservation without sacrificing badly needed cash and jobs is appealing.
"If there is no economic benefit, there may be a populist sentiment that we should use it for other purposes," said Bharrat Jagdeo, the president of Guyana, the only English-speaking country in South America.
He said that his country is committed to conservation and has established an environmental protection agency. But, he added, it needs the support and advice of international conservation groups. Guyana is also working with the Carter Center, created by former President Jimmy Carter, to create a foundation to explore alternatives to resource exploitation.
Guyana recently approved a three-year exploratory lease for Conservation International; the term could be extended to 25 years once the parties have agreed to various terms, including price. The group had already identified an additional 800,000 acres that it would be interested in protecting if the government views the first concession as a success.
Conservation International is pursuing similar arrangements in countries like Peru, where the government will auction concessions for some of its land in the Biabo forest.
Conservation concessions, unlike national parks, might also allow the limited use of public lands for activities like hunting or fishing, by local people who might depend on the area for their livelihood. "With a simple concept, this is very accommodating to those uses and users and dodges some of the debilitating conflicts that have stymied a lot of traditional conservation efforts," said Dan Martin, the director of ecosystems conservation and policy for the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, which has helped to finance the group.
The calculus also has wide appeal to potential donors, many of whom are increasingly interested in seeing tangible results of their gifts, according to Lewis Coleman, the chairman of Banc of America Securities and a board member of Conservation International.
As promising as the concept may be, it is clearly untested. Shifting political winds in a developing country could undo any long-term agreement that Conservation International managed to reach. And any preserved land must be monitored to prevent unauthorized use.
Conservation International is quick to acknowledge that these concessions are only a part of the effort to save the world's wilderness areas, but it says they are important. "One of the biggest problems with parks," said Richard Rice, an economist for the group who helped to develop the concept, "is that governments don't want to make more of them."
By trying a market-based idea, the group hopes to compete more effectively with commercial interests vying for the same land.
Conservation International is "wonderfully entrepreneurial," said Thomas E. Lovejoy, the chief biodiversity adviser for the World Bank.
"There is no reason," he added, "that the conservation business can't be as creative with financing mechanisms as the normal business world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The rain forests of Guyana are home to great egrets, top, and giant river otters, above. Conservation International has bought the logging rights to preserve 200,000 acres in the country. (Photographs by Haroldo Castro/Conservation International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (53%); CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECOTOURISM (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); MINES & MINING (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



565 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The New Entrepreneurs of Silicon Heights

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
APROSYS COMPUTER, a tiny business above the Amir Barber Shop on West 181st Street in Washington Heights, is easy to miss in this neighborhood where beauty salons and discount stores with bins of $10 jeans are more common than computer shops.
That is changing. 
 In the last two years, five computer-related businesses have appeared in the area bordered by Broadway, Amsterdam Avenue and 179th and 186th Streets, providing tangible proof of how technology is weaving itself into the local fabric.
"The computer is becoming just another household utensil, like a television or a blender," said Alex Rodriguez, a technician at another new computer business, Compus Electronics Center, a repair shop on West 179th Street wedged between a bodega and an auto parts shop.
A year ago, Compus mostly repaired two-way radios for livery-cab drivers. Noting how many local residents were buying computers, the owner, Justo Peguero, decided to offer computer repairs.
"When I saw his store, I just went in," said Jose Reynoso, a recent customer. "I liked being able to get repairs done in the neighborhood."
The growing local demand in part reflects a wider trend. Despite worries that minorities are on the wrong side of the digital divide, Forrester Research, which reports on technology issues, says low-income Hispanics of any race or ethnicity are more likely to be online than low-income whites nationwide.
Local computer businesses still have a long way to go before they take over the market from downtown or suburban superstores. At Mr. Peguero's store, computer repairs rank a distant second to the two-way radio business.
Even the oldest store, six-year-old Castle Computer, on Broadway and 192nd Street, sells only about 10 computers a month and focuses on repairs, upgrades and training. There is also a Radio Shack, on 181st Street, between Broadway and Bennett Avenue, which sells some computers as part of its electronics business.
But the growing interest in computers has encouraged entrepreneurs with a distinct neighborhood flavor in this heavily Dominican area. Their businesses are often family owned and unmistakably Latino. Marketing is generally by word of mouth, fliers passed out in the street and advertising on local Spanish-language cable.
The hours can be unpredictable, although it is a pretty sure bet that the doors at Aprosys will close by noon on Sundays so Hector Marmolejos, the owner, can get to his weekly softball game.
At Aprosys, which moved from the Bronx 20 months ago, Mr. Marmolejos specializes in systems design, mostly for local Hispanic-owned businesses, while his son handles hardware sales and repairs.
A few blocks away, on St. Nicholas Avenue, a white sign with red block letters hangs from the awning of Taveras Beauty Supply with a simple message: "Computer." Down a narrow stairway is the 18-month-old Computer Multi-Service Center, a bare-bones operation whose main attraction is a narrow laboratory with a dozen PC's where classes are held in the evenings.
The business is run by Genis Guzman and his wife, Maribel, who lived in Washington Heights for 11 years before recently moving to New Jersey. Manuel Feliz, was sent by his employer, a local money-wiring service, to take two introductory lessons. He ended up paying for three more months of Word and Excel lessons and also bought a printer.
"Everything is computers," he said. "If you're not trained in Excel, Powerpoint, you're not prepared. Everything I do here I apply at work."
Raul Aquino leads the classes in an animated Spanglish.
"Tenemos aqui el menu bar, y aqui el standard tool bar," he explained to an introductory class as a merengue by the Latin Grammy winner Juan Luis Guerra played in the background.
On a recent evening, Alfonso Guerrero, 41, a security guard, was leaving the center after an Excel class when Ms. Guzman yelled out to him, "When are you buying the computer?"
"Not yet," Mr. Guerrero replied sheepishly. "I don't have the money."
When he does, he said, he will probably buy the machine there.
"They have a good payment plan," he said. "They give you up to a year to pay."
Edward Atristain owns Channel PC, which has a full storefront on Broadway. Mr. Atristain has been selling and servicing computers in Jackson Heights, Queens, since 1993. He opened the Washington Heights branch of his store seven months ago. His customers include two community groups, the Dominican Women's Caucus and the Community Association of Progressive Dominicans.
"I would prefer to do business with someone who is local and small," said David Sang, the association's fiscal officer, explaining why he used Channel PC.
Mr. Atristain has stocked his shelves with educational software and set up online terminals for customers to rent in 20-minute blocks. He hopes to attract people like Rene Marte, a 27-year-old music promoter who recently waited for hours at the local public library to check his e-mail after his father took the family laptop with him on a trip to the Dominican Republic.
The fifth new business was started eight months ago, by Hector Anderson, a Pentecostal minister. When his Spanish-language Christian bookstore, Fuente de Vida, was going through tough times, he began selling used PC's from a back room, calling the secondary business Antel Computer.
But Mr. Anderson's lease had a clause restricting sales to religious items. The solution: install a free CD-ROM bible in each computer. But that is one service no longer available in Washington Heights. A property tax dispute forced him to move both businesses to the Bronx in August.
The remaining stores are counting on drawing local residents with convenient and familiar settings. The prices won't hurt, either. Luis Madrigal is commissioning a computerized management system for Madrigal Executive Transportation, a new car service, from Aprosys.
"If I went downtown, it would cost me 50 times more than it's costing me here," Mr. Madrigal said.
"Seriously," he said, only half-seriously. "I'm not exaggerating."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Castillo outside Castle Computer, his store at Broadway and 192nd Street. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Alex Rodriguez works on a computer at Compus Electronics in Washington Heights. Channel PC, below, sells software and time online, besides computers. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); RSH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); RADIOSHACK CORP (53%); AQUANTIVE INC (50%); COMPUS ELECTRONICS CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPUS ELECTRONICS CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BARBER SHOPS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); FAMILY (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (74%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT REPAIR (74%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



566 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Gabrielle Bushman, David Fitzgerald

 BODY:
Gabrielle Margaret Bushman, the daughter of Georgia Bushman of South Norwalk, Conn., and Gregory T. Bushman of New York, was married yesterday to David Acton Fitzgerald, a son of Dr. Thomas A. Fitzgerald Jr. of Lakewood, Colo., and the late Billie Jean Fitzgerald. The Rev. David M. Clarke performed the ceremony at St. Edmond's Roman Catholic Church in Rehoboth Beach, Del.
The bride, 31, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a senior press officer at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. Until 1996, she was a speechwriter and researcher at the White House. She graduated from American University and received a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University. Her father, who works in Purchase, N.Y., is the director of business development for the United States subsidiary of Mitsui Chemicals, a Japanese manufacturer. Her mother is the manager of media and communications for Save the Children, the aid organization in Westport, Conn. 
 Mr. Fitzgerald, 34, is a senior associate at Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand, a Washington law firm. Until 1994, he was a legislative aide to Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio. The bridegroom graduated from Colorado College and received a law degree from the Catholic University of America. His mother was the director of corporate giving in the fund-raising office of the University of Denver. His father retired as the principal of the lower school at Colorado Academy, a private school in Denver.
The bridegroom is a great-grandson of the late mayor of Boston, John F. Fitzgerald, who was known as Honey Fitz and was President John F. Kennedy's maternal grandfather.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4183 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (56%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MITSUI CHEMICALS INC (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RELIGION (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAW FIRM BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); CORPORATE GIVING (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); GRANDPARENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: BUSHMAN, GABRIELLE MARGARET; FITZGERALD, DAVID ACTON JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



567 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Alfred Harrison;
Alliance Premier Growth Fund

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
THESE days, Alfred Harrison lives in Minneapolis and presides over about $80 billion of investments for Alliance Capital Management. But he developed a horse sense for arbitrage during his youth, when his father took him on trips from their home in Nottingham, England, to the Newmarket racetrack.
Back then, Mr. Harrison could have used the help of the region's most famous legend, Robin Hood. His parents were classical pianists, and sometimes it was a struggle just to put food on the table. But life was not without its pleasures -- his father had a love of horse racing that he shared with his son. 
 The son proved to be a lucky bettor, and a good analyst of chance.
"In those days, each bookmaker offered different odds," Mr. Harrison explained. "The weight of money would bring down the price as you got closer to the race. I would bet on a horse at 5 to 1.
"But this horse might come down to 2 to 1 right before the race, and another horse that had been at 4 to 1 had moved to 7 to 1," he said. "So I'd have two bets. Both are done at the most propitious price."
He said he was "almost arbitraging between bookmakers, between the different odds."
Such calculations helped Mr. Harrison, now 62, pay his way through Cambridge University, where he studied economics. But they also "got me keenly aware of the importance of price," he said.
That is not to say that Mr. Harrison invests like a riverboat gambler. He has obtained solid returns in his Alliance Premier Growth fund, which has $21.4 billion in six share classes. For a manager of a growth fund, he is quite measured in his approach, and last year he cautiously loaded up on value stocks.
Of course, value investing -- the search for bargain stocks that have fallen out of favor, in hopes of riding a rebound -- was not the path to shoot-out-the-lights returns last year. The big winners were growth investors who piled into technology stocks, some of which had dubious earnings or revenue pictures.
But if Mr. Harrison did not jump wholeheartedly onto the technology bandwagon last year, he did not ignore it, either. At the end of November, 27.6 percent of his portfolio was in technology stocks, led by big positions in Dell Computer and Cisco Systems.
That percentage was far below that of some other growth funds, which kept more than half their assets in technology. But Mr. Harrison's fund still managed a gain of 29 percent in 1999, a bit behind the average large-company growth fund, though about eight percentage points ahead of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. He has beaten the S.& P. in four of the last five years.
"Last year, prices got silly, particularly in the fourth quarter," Mr. Harrison said. And when prices get silly, he gets more conservative, looking at companies for the right blend of fundamentals and price.
He also uses an approach Alliance calls the V-factor -- the "V" being a visual representation of the strategy. When the market heads south, Mr. Harrison becomes more aggressive. When the market goes up, he becomes more cautious.
Not surprisingly, during the technology sell-off in April, Mr. Harrison was a buyer, and by the end of June, the fund had a 39.9 percent weighting in technology. This year, the fund is up 3.3 percent, a couple of percentage points ahead of the S.& P.
Since its inception in 1992, Alliance Premier Growth has gained 24.5 percent, annualized, about 4.5 percentage points above the S.& P. 500 and in the top 15 percent of its peer group, according to Lipper Inc.
The ride has not always been smooth. In 1994, the fund lost nearly 6 percent and ranked in the bottom quarter of its peer group. It rebounded with a sterling performance over the next four years, however, ranking among the top 15 percent of its group each year.
Besides managing Alliance Premier Growth, Mr. Harrison is a vice chairman at Alliance, overseeing its large-company investment team. He leads a group of money managers and analysts who preside over institutional and private accounts and a $2 billion hedge fund.
"Growth to me is multifaceted," Mr. Harrison said. "It's basically companies you believe have a balance sheet, industry position and management to support a 20 percent or better growth rate over the next two to three years."
About two-thirds of the portfolio is invested in the management team's favorite 25 stocks, "the names most people recognize," he said. The top holdings include Intel, Pfizer and Cisco. He is also building a position in Viacom, the media conglomerate that owns CBS and MTV.
The other third of the portfolio is dedicated to "areas that aren't traditional growth stocks," he said. In that value vein, Mr. Harrison has been mining two beaten-down sectors this year: energy and airlines.
"The energy stocks are making an enormous amount of money given their prices," he said. "Airlines are doing well, earnings-wise, notwithstanding all of their problems."
A new holding is BP Amoco. "BP has the enormous strengths of the combination of BP, Amoco and Atlantic Richfield, superb management and has had a major cost cutting program," he said. "They are using earnings to step up their exploration and development."
Mr. Harrison bought Atlantic Richfield in the first quarter as a cheap way to get into BP Amoco, which completed its takeover of Atlantic Richfield in April. He bought into the combined company between $46 and $47 a share. It closed at $52.88 on Friday. He is bullish on its earnings projections over the next three years but would not hesitate to sell if market conditions shift.
As for his hobbies, Mr. Harrison now prefers art to horse racing. He and his wife, Ingrid Lenz Harrison, collect German Expressionist art. But when it comes to an appreciation of price, he prefers the hardscrabble lessons of the racetrack and, he said, "the value of a working-class upbringing in England."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alfred Harrison, at home in Minneapolis, mixes value plays into his Alliance Premier Growth fund. But technology stocks play a big role. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Alliance Premier Growth A"
Category: Large-cap growth
Net assets: $6.1 billion
Inception: September 1992
Manager: Alfred Harrison since inception
Minimum purchase: $250 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 75%
5-year annualized return through Aug. 31: 29.8%
Category average: 24.9%
 
Sector breakdown
Technology: 39.9%
Health: 8.9%
Services: 20.8%
Retail: 6.7%
Financials: 13.4%
Industrial cyclicals: 6.8%
Other: 3.5%
 
Fees
Front-end load: 4.25%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.33%
Expense ratio: 1.50%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (89%); HORSES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (56%); 

PERSON: ALFRED HARRISON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



568 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
As Indexes Fall, Some Musings on the Downside

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
AS the last week of the third quarter begins, the three major stock indexes are down for the year. And if they finish the quarter this way, it will be the first time since 1990 that all three have been down at this time of the year. So let's think some bearish thoughts.
One of the threats to the stock market is the retirement of the baby boomers. As they leave the work force, will they also choose less risk, moving money from stocks into bonds? 
 Paddy Jilek, the director of United States economics at Credit Suisse First Boston, thinks so.
He acknowledges that the life-expectancy data shows that people who are retiring at 65 can now expect to live to 75 or 80. That makes it difficult to say when retirees' investment horizons will shorten enough to make them demand investments that are less risky than stocks. Still, he said, "eventually the baby boomers will become risk averse like every retiree, and that means, other things being equal, the stock market could struggle over a 10-year period."
For the first baby boomers, the age of 65 doesn't come for 10 years. So what's the worry? Mr. Jilek thinks that the previous generation, which is reaching 65 now, is ready to begin making the portfolio shift to less risky assets like bonds. And he argues that this group, which dates from 1935 -- 10 years before the beginning of the baby boom generation -- was the pace setter at two other crucial points for markets.
One was the surge in home buying that he believes reached its inflection point around 1965, while many baby boomers were still in grade school. Before then, housing prices had been falling, relative to the Consumer Price Index. Afterward, housing prices began to rise in real terms.
The second key point was at the beginning of the 1980's. That, Mr. Jilek argued, was when this older group began the accumulation of financial assets to help pay for college educations for their children and eventual retirement for themselves.
If this group is leading the way again, investors may have more to worry about now than they are aware of. "A sprinkle now, a drizzle soon, and a torrent in 15 year's time," Mr. Jilek wrote in a recent report on this issue. "It's the sprinkle that marks the inflection point relative to asset prices."
Mr. Jilek thinks that there is another threat to the stock market -- one that means it may not be able to match the wonderful returns of the last half of the 1990's. And if it coincides with the shift of risk preference by those born in 1935 who are now retiring, it could aggravate the portfolio shift away from equities, putting downward pressure on stocks.
That threat, he says, is from abroad.
In his report, Mr. Jilek argued that foreign demand for American stocks played a crucial role in the second half of the 1990's -- and that a switch in sentiment could hurt. In 1999, according to Federal Reserve data, foreign investment funds bought a net $98.1 billion of American stocks. And that number has taken off this year, despite the poor performance of the major stock indexes. Net purchases surged to $176.4 billion in the first half.
American stock has also been gobbled up in the form of foreign acquisitions of United States companies. There were about $153 billion in cross-border deals in 1999, almost double the $78 billion in 1998.
So with the stock market in a position it has not seen for a decade, think of influences that go beyond corporate earnings, whose growth appears to be slowing, and whether the Federal Reserve is finished raising interest rates for this cycle.
Even if it is not a factor tomorrow, Mr. Jilek said, it would be wise to be a little more cautious about the potential for stocks in the years ahead. "I think it is an issue you really need to keep in mind," he added. "It's there all the time and can be a pretty powerful force."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Peak In Demand?"
Graph tracks the net purchases of U.S. stocks by foreign portfolio investors, in billions, since 1980.
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (86%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (86%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CHILDREN (76%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); 

PERSON: PADDY JILEK (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



569 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: Hot Wheels: Can They Light America's Fire?

BYLINE: By RICK MARIN

 BODY:
EDDIE IRVINE, winner of four Formula One Grand Prix races, left no doubt at Saks Fifth Avenue's breast cancer benefit on Tuesday night that he is one of the fastest men on earth. In less than 20 minutes, he hit on Christy Turlington and Miss Universe.
"Are you Miss World?" asked Mr. Irvine, who is Irish and not shy. 
 "No, I'm Miss Universe."
"Oh, I was a judge at the last Miss World," he said. "I'm Eddie."
Mr. Irvine, 34, was without a doubt the biggest celebrity at the Saks party whom nobody knew. The 17 Formula One Grand Prix races this year will be watched by a cumulative audience of five billion people. But here in this fishbowl of New York media and society he went virtually unrecognized. Ms. Turlington knew who he was: supermodels and Formula One drivers belong to the same global V.I.P. club. They had met once, in Dublin eight years ago. Eager to renew their acquaintance, Mr. Irvine elicited a promise from her to watch him race his Jaguar in the first Grand Prix in the United States since 1991.
The race is today. A sinuous Formula One track has been cut into the big oval of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where a sold-out crowd of more than 200,000 will fill the stands. Cable's Speedvision and the Fox Sports Network will cover the event live at 2 p.m.
How many viewers will tune in is another question. And will a country that let Grand Prix racing fizzle out nine years ago and that has no American-born Formula One drivers care?
Mr. Irvine's appearance at Saks during Fashion Week and on "The Late Show With David Letterman" the previous week are part of a promotional push by Jaguar, Formula One and some of its major sponsors into the only market that has eluded them: the United States. Auto racing has never been bigger in the United States, but Nascar and Indy-style ovals have eclipsed road racing.
Strange. Formula One may be the most glamorous, extreme and richest sport around, and yet it is literally foreign to a nation that prizes all those things. These are the most technologically sophisticated race cars. Their screaming roar is the unforgettable sound of engines running at 19,000 revolutions per minute, that go from 0 to 125 miles an hour in less than seven seconds and decelerate so fast the carbon brakes glow red. In 200-mile-an-hour turns, drivers sustain a G-force almost as great as a fighter pilot's. A Village Voice article on the death of the great Brazilian driver Ayrton Senna in 1994 noted that Formula One cars generate enough downforce in theory to be driven upside-down across a ceiling.
The drivers' heart rates can pound at more than 200 beats a minute; a driver can lose 10 pounds in a 90-minute race. And like bullfighters, drivers chance death every time they step in front of a crowd. Michael Schumacher of the Ferrari team, considered by many the sport's best driver, was listed in March by Forbes magazine as the highest paid athlete in the world, at $49 million a year.
What more, a Formula One proselytizer might ask, do you want from a sport?
To distinguish itself from Nascar's good-old-boy following, the current Formula One campaign in the United States has been very high end. Luxury brands are pushing the Grand Prix as the LMVH of motor racing, polo on wheels.
Tag Heuer, the official timekeeper for Formula One, took out a six-page advertising spread in the September issue of Vanity Fair, juxtaposing images of its sports watches with the McLaren-Mercedes racing car. At this year's Oscars, Tag Heuer gave out 100 of its $1,700 Formula One 2000 Grand Prix Chronogaphs to performers and presenters. And this summer, Tag Heuer, Hugo Boss and Mercedes were the hosts of parties at the Guggenheim Museum and in Southhampton. The guest list aimed at the kind of young, rich, beautiful people who have always been moths to the Formula One flame in Europe. A McLaren show car was on display, so people could gawk and marvel at the surprising smallness and coolness of the fastest car on the circuit.
Before today's race, Ferrari, the only serious competitor for McLaren, will run its usual exhibition race with amateur drivers wealthy enough to own Ferrari sports cars.
By far the most aggressive campaign to raise Formula One awareness in this country has been Jaguar's, which is in its first year of competition. On the morning of the Saks party, Mr. Irvine drove a Formula One Jag down Broadway -- traffic had been cleared from 48th Street to 44th. A Formula One team can cost $200 million to $300 million a year to run. For Jaguar -- and its parent company, Ford -- the expense is part of a long-term plan to build a winning team. For the moment, it's a loss leader.
"We are moving Jaguar toward a performance-oriented brand, trying to appeal to a slightly younger customer," said Simon Sproule, vice president of public affairs for Jaguar North America. "There's no better platform than Formula One, with the caveat that the U.S. is the best market for our cars but the one that knows the least about Formula One."
The challenge for Jaguar, Mercedes and Honda, companies that use Formula One as a platform to promote their consumer lines, is to penetrate beyond "the guys who are watching Speedvision at 3 a.m.," said Mr. Sproule. "What we as a car manufacturer are concerned with is the nonpetrolheads."
Hence, Mr. Irvine's appearance on the Letterman show. David Letterman declined to be interviewed for this article, but he's the only late-night talk-show host who books Formula One drivers. David Cronenberg, the film director and a fellow racing fanatic, said Mr. Letterman once told him, "I only care about two things: broadcasting and Formula One."
Between Mr. Irvine's Irish accent and offhand jokes about a sport most viewers haven't a clue about, he and his host seemed almost to be speaking in code. Mr. Irvine said his father was such a racing nut that he had almost named his son "Moss Irvine." Mr. Letterman chuckled, getting a reference to the legendary British driver, Stirling Moss, that probably sailed clear over his millions of viewers.
Cocky, charming and stylish in his black suits and bleached hair, Mr. Irvine is an America-friendly celebrity. As a rookie he once provoked Senna, at the time the champion, to take a swing at him. At Ferrari, he publicly complained that being the No. 2 driver to the exacting, teutonic Mr. Schumacher was like being hit every day on the head with a cricket bat. He seems like the kind of bad-boy toy Madonna might seek out to father a love-child.
Sexy stars aside, there are still a few roadblocks to winning over the United States market. Aside from the Letterman show, mainstream media coverage has been minimal. And most fans of international sport are more likely to watch the Olympics right now, especially with a local hero to root for.
Mario Andretti, who raced Formula One from 1968 to 1982, was the last American champion, but he was born in Trieste and never fully lost his Italian accent. Michael Andretti, Mario's son, competed in 1993, unsuccessfully. The last United States Grand Prix was held in Phoenix in the dead of summer.
"Totally the wrong place," said Thomas L. Bryant, the editor in chief for Road & Track. The Indy speedway "is probably the best place to do it," he said. "It's the mecca of automobile racing in America."
Roger Werner, the president of Speedvision, said his channel usually gets 150,000 to 300,000 viewers for a live Grand Prix telecast. Today's race, he said, could attract 400,000 to a million. "It's never going to be as large an audience as Nascar," he said. But it is a desirable audience for advertisers because Formula One fans have higher income and education levels and "tend to be skewed toward the major metropolitan markets -- its more cosmopolitan."
To the uninitiated, Formula One is not the most accessible of sports. Two teams, Ferrari and McLaren, are laps ahead of the pack technologically, and their drivers almost always win. (After 14 races, Mika Hakkinen of Finland, who drives a McLaren, leads Mr. Schumacher by 2 points in the drivers' standings.) Passing is too difficult, and too dangerous, and so the car that starts out in front, in the pole position, which is determined by time trials, and wins the drag race into the first turn, frequently finishes in the same position.
Nascar drivers, like country music stars, spend hours signing autographs. Formula One drivers are hermetically sequestered from their fans. Entry to the Paddock Club, the equivalent of box seating, is restricted to corporate sponsors or the very rich. Admittance to the paddock itself, the sanctum sanctorum of the drivers and their teams, is akin to a papal audience.
Even media access can be difficult. This restrictiveness is a deliberate strategy of Bernie Ecclestone, the man who runs Formula One racing, to enhance its exclusive aura. Mr. Ecclestone controls Formula One Management, which in June was granted all commercial rights to Formula One by the Federation Internationale de l'Automobile (of which he is vice president) until the year 2110 for about $360 million. This is roughly his company's revenues in a single year. There were no other bidders, according a recent article in The Economist about Formula One's murky finances, which can make professional boxing, by comparison, look like a union shop. (The European Union is investigating whether racing concerns owned by Mr. Ecclestone broke competition laws.)
Mr. Ecclestone has a reputation as an obscure and eccentric figure. In a telephone interview from London, he started whistling when asked about The Economist story, calling journalists "fiction writers."
The assertion that he has monopolistic control over Formula One is "probably true," he said, adding, "What it amounts to in reality is that I've been able to do the things I want to do with the sport." But, he said, "I'm not a criminal, no."
Sylvester Stallone alluded to Mr. Ecclestone's controlling influence as the reason he changed the hero of his next movie, "Champs," from a Formula One driver to an Indy-style driver. "There is a certain person in charge of that series who has his own agenda," Mr. Stallone said in February. "Making an F1 movie has become impossible." Mr. Ecclestone offered no comment.
Mr. Cronenberg, the film director, has written a script called "Red Cars," about the American driver Phil Hill's championship season for Ferrari in 1961, but he can't find anyone to produce it. "People seem to love to read it," he said on the phone from his home in Toronto. "I've been asked to turn it into a novel." But not a movie.
Mr. Cronenberg, who raced cars as an amateur, named Jeff Goldblum's scientist in "The Fly" after the British driver Martin Brundle.
How does he rate the sport's chances of finding an audience in the United States? "America likes extremes and Formula One is the most extreme sport there is," he said. "The missing piece of the puzzle is a brilliant American driver."
Until then, Mr. Irvine offers another reason to watch today's race:
"It's the thrill, isn't it?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Schumacher of Germany practiced taking a few turns in his Ferrari last June when he tooled through Monte Carlo, en route to earning an annual income estimated at nearly $50 million. That's a world record. (Michel Lipschitz/Associated Press)(pg. 2); In advance of today's Formula One race at Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Eddie Irvine appeared with Christy Turlington at a breast cancer research benefit at Saks Fifth Avenue during Fashion Week (right) and paraded down Broadway in his Formula One Jaguar. (David Corio for The New York Times; inset, Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (69%); IRELAND (57%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (57%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (69%); IRELAND (57%); INDIANA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FORMULA ONE RACING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AUTO RACING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); NASCAR RACING (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL SCHUMACHER (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



570 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3221 words

HEADLINE: Energy Jolt: Who Wins, Loses or Shrugs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE; Additional reporting for this article was done by Claudia H. Deutsch, Emily Yellin, Barbara Whitaker and Michael Depp.

 BODY:
FOR David Densberger, who last week hauled canned tuna from New Orleans to Chicago in his 18-wheeler and then took a load of fresh vegetables on the much shorter hop across Wisconsin to St. Paul, the building energy crisis has a precise cost: the extra $300 that he now spends each week on diesel fuel.
That was the $300 that Mr. Densberger, who is 53, had been putting aside to buy a new rig, which he does every three years. His current tractor, in fact, will turn three in February, but as the price of a barrel of crude oil has climbed to its highest level in a decade, Mr. Densberger can no longer save for a down payment. Unable to raise the rates he charges to haul freight as fast as his fuel prices have climbed, he sees no choice but to keep the old rig rolling and his fingers crossed that oil prices will fall soon. "What else can I do?" he asked. "I can't stop driving and let my truck go back to the finance company and ruin my credit and not have a way to make a living." 
 Ask about the impact on the American economy of the prolonged rise in petroleum prices and the more recent spike in natural gas -- both now at levels that provoked previous energy shocks -- and Mr. Densberger pops up among the hardest hit. On a scale of 1 to 10, he is close to 10, along with tens of thousands of other owner-operators in trucking who have not been able to offset the steep rise in diesel fuel prices. Corporate America in general, registering 4 or 5 on this scale, is struggling with the energy crisis much more than consumers, who appear to view higher prices for gasoline and heating fuel as more of a nuisance than a threat to their living standards. That puts them at 1 or 2 on the scale, so far.
"It is not that people think they are immune to higher energy costs, but they don't believe the higher costs will persist," said Richard Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey. "That is the key to their indifferent behavior. They expect the spike in prices to be a temporary phenomenon, so they don't give it much attention."
Businesses certainly do. Worried about profits, many companies have found or are trying to find ways to offset the impact: They use less energy, obtain discounts on their energy purchases, charge a bit more when they can, or operate more efficiently. And some companies, of course, are profiting from this latest energy crisis, which began stealthily about 18 months ago.
But the economy is not profiting, even though economists are not forecasting doom, either. Each of the three other crises since 1973 ended in a recession, but this one appears unlikely to do so. It is, however, gradually taking some steam out of the nation's booming prosperity.
"Without the energy crisis, the economy would have expanded at close to a 6 percent rate this year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, an economics research firm. "Now the consensus forecast is 5.2 percent growth."
If oil and natural gas prices remain stubbornly high through next year, economic growth will be reduced by an additional half percentage point, by some estimates.
As the higher energy prices ripple through the economy, the big, early beneficiaries are obvious: the integrated oil companies like ExxonMobil, Chevron, Texaco and Conoco. They not only pump crude oil -- now selling for $32.68 a barrel, more than double the price during the spring of last year -- but they also refine it and sell it as gasoline, aviation fuel and heating oil. Net income at some of these giants has almost doubled this year, their best performances since the early 1980's.
Oil companies are not the only winners. The airlines, already flooded with passengers in a booming economy, have raised fares 14 percent this year, more than covering the extra fuel costs. Delta enhanced profitability by investing, months ago and more than the other airlines, in futures contracts -- in effect, buying fuel in advance at well below the current market price.
Some companies are even using the spike in heating fuel prices as a selling opportunity. The Carrier division of United Technologies, for instance, is pushing a remote thermostat control that it makes for utility companies. Three utilities are beginning to use the control to adjust the thermostats of homeowners, with their permission. "A family hardly notices if its utility supplier, using an Internet connection, lowers the thermostat setting by a single degree in winter," said Matt Chadderdon, a Carrier spokesman, "but across hundreds of homes there is a saving."
For most companies and industries, though, high energy prices are a risk. FedEx, a huge consumer of aviation fuel as well as gasoline, has added a 4 percent surcharge to its rates. That has just about offset the increase in fuel costs -- without costing the company business so far, the company said. In the auto industry, sales of sport utility vehicles stopped rising over the summer, while sales grew for smaller vehicles that are more fuel-efficient but less profitable. Higher gasoline prices played a role in this shift, analysts said, but so did a weaker stock market, whose earlier gains had helped people pay for S.U.V.'s.
The chemical industry is particularly pressed to adjust. Natural gas and petroleum are basic raw materials in making chemicals, which in turn are the raw materials for all sorts of everyday products and parts, especially those made of plastic and fiber. Companies are using many strategies to nullify their rising energy costs and even gain a leg up. Nova Chemicals, for one, had fortuitously bought futures contracts that guaranteed natural gas for well under $3 per thousand cubic feet, or roughly three days of consumption in a single-family house. When the price shot up in the spring and summer to $4.50, the company sold the contracts at a profit of $100 million and bought gas on the spot market, gambling that prices would fall sharply before the money was used up in late October.
"My personal view is that natural gas prices will come down in the next quarter," Jeffrey M. Lipton, Nova's chief executive, said last week.
He is more optimistic than almost every forecaster. The price of natural gas is still a very strong $5.29 at the wellhead, while crude oil fell below $35 a barrel on Friday as President Clinton announced the staggered release of 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.Gasoline, averaging $1.53 a gallon, is up 50 percent in two years. Natural gas prices began to rise sharply only last spring, but have doubled since then. Most homes use natural gas for heating, and household heating bills will rise by $200 or more this winter, according to an Energy Department estimate.
When will prices drop significantly? Well, production cutbacks in 1998 and early 1999 by the oil-producing nations brought on the crisis, and only now is production revving up by enough to replenish inventories to the point that prices can begin to move back toward noncrisis levels. "Rather than $25-a-barrel oil by Christmas," said Martin Bailey, chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, "we will get down to that level a year from now, or maybe 18 months from now."
 
The Consumer
 
Impact Felt Mostly At the Gas Pump
So the energy crisis is at high water today, but while companies struggle to adjust, the American consumer looks more like a spectator than a player.
When consumers have become involved, they have done so mainly at the gas station, by buying regular rather than premium gasoline, for example, or by driving a few extra blocks in search of cheaper gas, particularly in California where it often tops $2, or by vacationing closer to home, or by leaving the S.U.V. in the garage and driving the family's more fuel-efficient second car. That is what Travis Wells, 32, a security guard in Chicago, did for a while over the summer, when gasoline prices in the upper Midwest jumped briefly above $2 a gallon.
"For a while, I had to cut down on riding around altogether," said Mr. Wells. The reaction in Europe was much more demonstrative. Protesters in Britain blocked fuel deliveries there, disrupting commerce. Gasoline in Europe starts at more than $3 a gallon even in the least expensive countries because of high fuel taxes. The protesters sought tax relief to offset their extra outlays for fuel itself, but got it only in France.
If the American consumer seems blase, that is partly because the impact of high energy prices on the robust American economy has been relatively minor so far. But it is there, economists say. Americans are spending an additional $115 billion, nearly 1 percent of the gross domestic product, on energy this year, according to an estimate by Larry Goldstein of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation.
That is $115 billion diverted from other spending, although some of that money is being recycled into the economy. Rising tax revenue from the sale of oil pumped in Oklahoma, for example, has helped to pay for a $3,000 across-the-board raise for the state's teachers. But more than half of the diverted $115 billion is going abroad to pay for imported oil, shrinking spending at home and gradually acting as a drag on the economy. The slowdown is becoming evident in falling retail sales, weaker job growth, a decline in industrial production, a drop in home construction permits and a mild decline in freight traffic.
Still, there are good structural reasons that this energy crunch, as opposed to those in 1973, 1979 and 1990, seems unlikely to bring on a recession -- even if energy prices stay high into next year.
For one thing, the old impact is no longer there; energy plays a smaller role in the economy. Americans have already made the shift to more fuel-efficient cars, energy-saving appliances and easier-to-heat buildings. Service companies and computer technology play a bigger role in the economy, shrinking the role of oil and natural gas. And consumers have learned a lot. In the Northeast, for example, some homeowners and landlords, stung by sharply higher heating oil prices last winter, have borrowed a tactic that is common in business: They have negotiated caps on what they will pay for heating oil this winter, using futures contracts bought by their oil suppliers.
As a result of all these changes, the nation's spending on oil has declined to just above 3 percent of the gross domestic product this year, from 8.7 percent in the late 1970's, Mr. Goldstein estimated. Moreover, many fuel prices, high as they are, are really not much different than they were in the 1980's and early 1990's, adjusted for inflation. Even among families with incomes of less than $40,000 a year, energy spending, measured as a percentage of a family's total spending, declined by two percentage points or more from 1985 to 1998, the latest year for which data is available, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Still, these are the households, often living from paycheck to paycheck, that are hit hardest by the rise in the overall inflation rate after companies pass through some of their increases in energy costs. That rate, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, has risen nearly a full percentage point over the last 12 months, to 3.4 percent, with nearly all of the increase attributed to higher energy costs.
As inflation rises, workers find that their incomes buy less. And policy makers at the Federal Reserve worry that these workers will soon agitate successfully for higher wages. As wages rise, so will prices, as companies seek to cover their higher labor costs.
That was the pattern in the last three oil shocks, and the Fed's response -- sooner or later raising interest rates to discourage the wage pressure and the price increases -- helped each time to push the economy into recession. This time, however, there has been relatively little wage pressure from a more subdued work force with less bargaining power. And in the absence of wage acceleration, the Fed seems willing to leave interest rates alone for now.
"Without the wage pressure, it is pretty much a no-brainer for the Fed to wait out the higher oil prices," said Ben Herzon, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting and consulting service in St. Louis. "If you don't get the wage-price spiral, then the inflation disappears when oil prices decline."
 
The Corporation
Raising Prices Now, Rather Than Later
While the Fed waits, the nation's companies don't. The potential damage to earnings is too painful.
That is especially the case in trucking, and particularly for the David Densbergers, whose single-truck operations are everywhere in the industry. Only in the last three months, he said, has he been able to add a 2 or 3 percent surcharge to his rates, a surcharge that "only one in five customers actually pays." Even if all did so, he said, the extra income would not offset the rise in diesel fuel. He paid $1.57 a gallon in Arkansas last week and $1.71 in Wisconsin -- up from 90 cents to $1.10 before prices began rising 18 months ago.
Still, Mr. Densberger, who lives in Berwick, Pa., grosses enough to continue to maintain a family income of $35,000 a year. To stay at that level, he, like most other truckers, puts in the maximum 70 hours a week of driving time allowed by federal law. When he rests, he turns off the engine and the air-conditioner, no matter the outside temperature. And he cuts other corners. His truck has a refrigeration system that runs on diesel fuel, so he tries to carry dry cargo on long hauls, like the canned tuna he took from New Orleans to Chicago.
But there is that new rig he wants, and he also has to be concerned about emergencies. "The $300 extra that I am spending on diesel fuel," he said, "is the profit that would go to buy new tires, when I need them, or a new engine if the one I have blows up. Engines cost $15,000."
Bigger trucking companies, like C. R. England in Salt Lake City, which operates 2,600 tractor-trailers, are also feeling squeezed by higher fuel costs, but much less so than owner-operators like Mr. Densberger. The surcharges they impose on their rates are higher and stick better, and such companies buy huge amounts of fuel at a discounted price, averaging $1.50 a gallon, said Dan England, the chief executive.
But workloads have risen for the nondriver staff, which has been trimmed to 700 from 820 two years ago. And during periods of peak demand, like the current harvest season, the company is more selective about whose business it takes.
"Customers that have not granted us our full surcharge, we don't haul for them," Mr. England said, adding, "Our profit margins have eroded, but they would be eroded a lot more if we had not taken the steps we have taken."
Dow Chemical has become similarly agile. The company buys naptha, ethane and other petroleum and natural gas-based "feed stocks" to make ethylene, which in turn is a chief building block of plastics from which so many consumer products and parts are made. With ethylene in abundant supply, raising its price is hard. So a big goal for Dow is to pay as little as possible for the ever more costly feed stocks. To do this, the company has installed new processing equipment that allows it to switch feed stocks on a dime, going to naptha, for example, if it is less costly than ethane or something else.
"We are constantly running computer models that show us, literally on a daily basis, which raw materials are best to use," said William S. Stavropoulos, Dow's chief executive. He added: "Our feed stock costs were up 60 percent in the second quarter, and that dinged our bottom line by 50 cents a share. Without all of these systems in place, we would have been dinged by half again as much."
For Enron, based in Houston, an energy crisis offers opportunity, particularly when prices are volatile, as they have been so far in this squeeze. Enron owns a natural gas pipeline and makes money in that business, but it also does well helping other companies manage risks. One client, the United Illuminating Company in Hartford, sold off its electricity generating plants under deregulation. Still, it is required for the next five years to charge customers only 5.5 cents a kilowatt hour, about what a 100-watt bulb consumes in 10 hours.
"They decided that they did not want to take the risk of being forced to buy electricity for more than 5.5 cents," said Mark Palmer, a spokesman for Enron. "So we agreed to deliver the electricity for less than that amount."
Enron does this by juggling a whole bunch of similar clients. On any given day, the electricity delivered to Hartford might cost too much, say 10 cents a kilowatt hour. But there is an offsetting profit elsewhere, say in the delivery of natural gas to a generating plant in Michigan. On balance, there has been enough profit from risk management in this energy crisis to contribute significantly to Enron's growing revenue and profits, Mr. Palmer said.
Electricity has been a sideshow of this energy shock. Most electricity rates have remained fairly steady. But the combination of deregulation and not enough generating power has resulted in spot shortages and price spikes, particularly in the West. In this situation, the Ormet Primary Aluminum Corporation found that it could make more money by selling some of the electricity that it had bought to make aluminum, rather than make the aluminum itself.
Using futures contracts, Ormet had bought the electricity at a discount and has sold some at a profit while shutting down some aluminum production at a smelter in Hannibal, Ohio. Aluminum production in the United States has dropped sharply in recent months, and prices have risen. Ormet's experience helps to explain why this is happening, said John Mothersole, an analyst at Standard & Poor's DRI, a data gathering and consulting service.
The one great gift of an energy crisis should be the stimulus it provides for exploration and new drilling, to increase the production of oil and natural gas and thus take advantage of the higher prices. The growing supply then moderates prices. But exploration and drilling have picked up only recently in the United States, reflecting concern that new production will come on line just as prices fall.
"Our philosophy with respect to capital spending is 'constancy of purpose,' " said David O'Reilly, the chairman of Chevron, adding that "oil and gas prices go up and down, but it's counterproductive to overreact to prices that are either atypically low or high."
That is why Charles Goodson, chairman of PetroQuest Energy, in Lafayette, La., is not throwing his hat in the air. His is one of the many small companies that account for most of the actual oil drilling and new production in the United States. Mr. Goodson said PetroQuest was just getting back on its feet after the blow it suffered in 1998, when crude oil prices fell to as low as $10 a barrel, and his employees -- 25 then, 40 today -- all took pay cuts.
"We've been consistently drilling wells through the ups and downs of this," Mr. Goodson said. "You've got to weigh the prices we are getting now with the prices we were getting a year and two years ago. So when you average those things out, they don't look nearly so rosy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ken Hartsfield's helicopter neared a PetroQuest Energy drilling rig off of Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico.; Pipes on PetroQuest Energy's Rig 225. Despite higher oil prices, drilling has picked up only recently. (Photographs by David Rae Morris/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)(pg. 14); (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times); (David Rae Morris/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Watching the Stocks"
Declining supplies of natural gas and crude oil in the United States have contributed to the rise in prices for these comodities. Natural gassupplies are charted as of October each year, when they are at a peak.
 
Graph tracks the volume of natural gas supplies and crude oil supplies since 1998.
(Source: Energy Informations Administration, Department of Energy)(pg. 14)
 
Graph tracks energy expenditures as a percentage of total spending for the middle 20 percent of households, grouped by income, since 1984.
 
Graph tracks near-month contract of crude oil on New York Mercantile Exchange since 1984.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATE AMERICA FAMILY CREDIT UNION (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); TRUCKING (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); DIESEL FUEL (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); 

PERSON: DAVID DENSBERGER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



571 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Automotive Ecosystem Proves Fragile

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
THE fallout from the Firestone tire recall is rattling many of the biggest automotive parts suppliers, who are already dealing with weaker sales, cost-cutting demands and other pressures.
The sector was beset by earnings warnings last week from several major players, all of which count Ford Motor, which had many of the recalled tires on its sport utility vehicles, as a major customer. Dana, TRW, Visteon, Tower Automotive, Eaton, Lear, ArvinMeritor and Dura Automotive all said third-quarter profits would be reduced from earlier estimates, partly because Ford halted production for three weeks in August and September at three truck plants. 
 Ford took the action to divert tires that would have been installed on S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks built at the plants to dealers for use as replacements for some of the 6.5 million tires Firestone recalled on Aug. 9 for possible defective tread.
The automaker collected 100,000 tires by shutting plants in Edison, N.J., Hazelwood, Ky., and St. Paul. Operations at the factories resumed last Monday. Ford expects to make up production of the 23,500 Ford Ranger pickups lost to the shutdown but will not recover production of 15,000 Explorers and Mercury Mountaineers.
The production cuts, although hardly severe in themselves, were enough to hurt many parts suppliers, forcing them to trim their output in turn.
Summer is always costly for parts makers and auto companies because they make big investments in changeovers for the new model year, which begins in October.
But this year, there have been other complications. Companies with European operations, like Dana and TRW, have been hurt by the weak euro and currency fluctuations. Companies that supply manufacturers of heavy-duty trucks, like ArvinMeritor and Borg-Warner, have seen a drop in business as the market softened. Federal Mogul, which makes engine parts, has felt the heat in both areas. Last week, it announced that its chief executive, Richard Snell, had resigned and that third-quarter earnings would fall below expectations.
And all the companies are facing pressure from the major automakers to keep a lid on prices. General Motors and DaimlerChrysler, in particular, have started extensive cost-cutting drives in recent weeks.
Ford's move only heightened suppliers' misery, said Joseph Phillippi, an analyst at PaineWebber. "It's a horrific confluence of economic events," he said. Gary Corrigan, a Dana spokesman, added: "Generally bad news comes in threes. This time it didn't come in three, it came in four."
In many cases, the Ford situation will probably have only minor effects on suppliers' stock prices. But it highlights how dependent those companies still are on their key customers.
Mr. Phillippi said the Ford cutback magnified the pitfalls of the industry's shift in the 1990's to just-in-time delivery systems.
For most of the 20th century, parts makers generally kept plants humming year-round, filling orders from the automakers that were placed before the start of each model year. Deliveries were made daily or weekly. Any parts not needed immediately were kept in auto company warehouses or at the parts makers' own depots.
But following the lead of Japanese rivals, American automakers changed their factories over the last 10 years to align production more closely with sales. They now depend on frequent supplies of parts -- like seats, steering wheels and engines -- which often arrive at factories only hours before they are to be installed.
Automakers have saved billions of dollars over the years by not having excess inventory. But if production stops at an auto plant, parts shipments stop, too, and parts production ceases almost automatically.
The brief Ford shutdown forced Dana to curtail production at plants in Fort Wayne, Ind., Cape Girardeau, Mo., and Pottstown, Pa., resulting in the layoff of 2,000 workers. Dana does not keep its parts plants running for more than a week after a closing at an auto factory it supplies, Mr. Corrigan said.
Analysts are watching the Firestone recall to see if Ford plans more closures, which could then affect fourth-quarter earnings. But Darren Kimball, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said he was not expecting the company to take further action, now that tire companies like Goodyear Tire and Rubber and Michelin have stepped up production of replacements for Firestone tires.
"People are speculating as to where the next piece of bad news will come from," Mr. Kimball said. But he said he thought most of the announcements had already been made.
Indeed, some company executives privately attribute the flood of warnings last week to the idea of safety in numbers. They theorize that investors are less likely to punish any one company for acknowledging that its results will fall short if many companies in the sector are affected.
"Once the storm clouds pass, you'll see some companies trading at extremely cheap valuations," Mr. Kimball said. His top pick is Delphi Automotive Systems, which was part of G.M. until its spinoff in 1999.
ABOUT 70 percent of Delphi's business came from G.M. this year, versus 76 percent in 1999, said Steve Gaut, a Delphi spokesman. He said Delphi was diversifying beyond G.M. and the auto industry in general. It now sells cellular phone components to Ericsson of Sweden, speedometers to Harley-Davidson and wiring harnesses to Boeing. Delphi has said it expects to meet analysts' third-quarter projections.
Kenneth Blaschke, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown, said he sees strong growth potential for Johnson Controls, a maker of seats and auto interiors, which said last week that its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, to be reported in October, would exceed analysts' estimates by 16 percent.
Johnson Controls' business is divided almost evenly among Ford, G.M. and DaimlerChrysler. Mr. Phillippi of PaineWebber sees that as a strong selling point for the stock.
With the Ford situation seemingly past, Mr. Phillippi said he expected to see many parts makers bounce back later this year. "This is very much of a short-term issue," he said. "Generally, we think we're through the worst of that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ford Explorers parked at the Dana Corporation plant in Pottstown, Pa. Ford interrupted production at three truck plants, hurting parts suppliers like Dana. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Too Close For Comfort"
Most major auto parts suppliers depend heavily on just a few customers, making them more vulnerable to shocks like a tire recall. Here are five major auto suppliers and their key customers, and the percentages of business from each. Revenues are for 1999.
 
Delphi Automotive Systems
REVENUE: $29.2 billion
General Motors $22.2 billion
 
Visteon
REVENUE: $19.4 billion
Ford $17.0 billion
 
Johnson Controls
REVENUE: $16.1 billion
DaimlerChrysler $2.6 billion
Ford $2.4 billion
General Motors $2.1 billion
 
Dana
REVENUE: $13.2 billion
Ford $2.0 billion
DaimlerChrysler $1.8 billion
 
Lear
REVENUE: $12.4 billion
Ford: $3.1 billion
General Motors: $3.1 billion
(Source: PaineWebber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); MTOR (NYSE) (91%); BWA (NYSE) (90%); DAN (NYSE) (85%); 5108 (TSE) (75%); FDML (NASDAQ) (58%); VC (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (75%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (75%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MERITOR INC (91%); BORGWARNER INC (90%); DURA AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS INC (90%); DANA HOLDING CORP (85%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (75%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (58%); VISTEON CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (91%); TIRES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CURRENCIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



572 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: The World;
A Man With Big Ideas, a Small Country . . . and Oil

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela

 BODY:
HUGO CHAVEZ spent his first 18 months as president of Venezuela consolidating his power on the domestic front. Now, with the price of oil nearing $40 a barrel and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries scheduled to gather here this week for a conference of its heads of state, he is about to step out onto the world stage in a big way.
For those unfamiliar with Venezuela's president, a 46-year-old former paratrooper who in 1992 led an unsuccessful coup attempt, the experience promises to be overwhelming. When it comes to international relations, Mr. Chavez is a whirlwind of ideas, plans and visions (as he is with every other subject that interests him), and many of these are intended to reshape the world order. This leaves him often critical of or even hostile to American positions. 
 "Venezuela is just too small for him," said Michael Shifter, senior fellow at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based policy analysis group. "He fancies himself as a regional and hemispheric leader, wants to play a major role on the global stage, and is testing the limits of how far he can go in terms of pushing his ideas and showing off his posture in global politics."
Such ambitions may seem messianic and way out of proportion in a country of modest size and huge economic and social problems. But Venezuela has twice as many people as Cuba, and Mr. Chavez has a pair of arrows in his quiver that his friend and mentor Fidel Castro could never claim: the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East and a long history as a main supplier of gasoline and heating oil to the United States.
That situation of mutual dependence gives Venezuela considerable leverage in its dealings with the United States, and Mr. Chavez, by arranging to have his energy minister named the president of OPEC, has been skillful in using oil as an instrument of foreign policy. As befits a former soldier, his own view of the world and how it should be shaped is strongly colored by geopolitical and strategic considerations.
"The 20th century was a bipolar century, but the 21st is not going to be unipolar," he vowed in a speech here in August. "The 21st century should be multipolar, and we all ought to push for the development of such a world. So long live a united Asia, a united Africa, a united Europe."
On this, as in several other areas, Mr. Chavez's views are similar to those of one of his early advisers, a neo-fascist Argentine theorist named Norberto Ceresole, who contends that Latin America must forge alliances with the Middle East and Asia to counterbalance the power of the United States and what he (but not Mr. Chavez) calls "the Jewish financial mafia." In its opposition to American hegemony, this view has something in common with those of countries like France and above all China, with whom Mr. Chavez has sought closer ties.
"Soviet power has collapsed, but that does not mean that neoliberal capitalism has to be the model followed by the peoples of the West," he said during a visit to Beijing last fall. "If only for that reason, we invite China to keep its flag flying, because this world cannot be run by a universal police force that seeks to control everything."
In more concrete terms, Mr. Chavez believes that "his mission in the world is to restore some sort of equilibrium that favors less developed countries," said Janet Kelly, a professor at the Institute of Higher Administrative Studies in Caracas who is working on a book about Venezuelan-American relations. "When you combine that with his liking of the center stage, it means he is going to be acting constantly to promote any movement in the world that goes against what he would perceive as the U.S.-dominated agenda."
One key to pursuing that goal is closer ties with what he calls "our 10 partners, friends and brothers in OPEC." In August, Mr. Chavez visited all the OPEC countries to invite their leaders to the summit meeting this week, raising hackles in Washington when he became the first head of state to call on Saddam Hussein in Baghdad since the gulf war and when, during a stop in Libya, he described Muammar el-Qaddafi as his ally.
"In geopolitical terms, the OPEC tour was masterful," said Riordan Roett, director of the Western Hemisphere Program at Johns Hopkins University. "It demonstrated that Venezuela was not just a Latin American backwater." He added that while the State Department may have complained about the Iraq trip, "more people in the third world now know about Chavez than they do about any other Latin American leader except Fidel Castro."
Mr. Chavez's relationship with the Cuban leader is complex. While he said last year that Venezuela and Cuba are swimming together "towards the same sea of happiness and of real social justice and peace," he also seems to realize that Mr. Castro's star has faded, leaving a vacuum that he, with all his eloquence, exuberance and personal warmth, can perhaps fill.
"There is admiration for Fidel, but it is linked not so much to Cuba's domestic system, which I do not think Chavez is interested in trying out, as it is adopting some of Fidel's style, such as the David against Goliath stance and the sense of humor that galls the other side," Dr. Kelly said. "He is more a student of Fidel the defiant than Fidel the Communist." Like Mr. Castro, Mr. Chavez seems to enjoy nothing more than tweaking the United States, which Washington, in a reflection of Venezuela's importance as an oil supplier, thus far has generally endured with patience.
But there are real policy differences, too. Mr. Chavez has withdrawn the Venezuelan military from regional naval exercises in the Caribbean and refused to allow United States planes monitoring drug trafficking to fly in Venezuelan airspace. Washington's decision to use $1.3 billion to support Colombia's government in its war against guerrillas and drug dealers promises to make the relationship even more difficult.
SOME of Mr. Chavez's former associates accuse him of supplying guns to leftist Colombian insurgents known as the FARC. He has denied that, but has also made it clear that he dislikes the American-sponsored Plan Colombia, warning that it may lead to "the Vietnamization of the entire Amazon region" and describing the helicopters Washington is sending to the Colombian government as "death machines."
"In reality, Hugo Chavez and his government are on the side of the FARC," Richard Gott writes in "The Shadow of the Liberator: The Impact of Hugo Chavez on Venezuela and Latin America" (Verso), a new and flattering biography. "Chavez wants the FARC to win, or at any rate to be so successful in the peace negotiations that its incorporation into the government will entirely change the political complexion of Colombia."
Mr. Chavez's principal intellectual hero is Simon Bolivar, the hero of South American independence who dreamed of and fought for a united continent. Mr. Chavez has argued for the formation of a South Atlantic Treaty Organization, a Latin American counterpart to the International Monetary Fund and a single currency for all of South America, but he clearly wants more.
"The idea of a reunified America, of a Bolivarian America, has arisen again," he said in a speech in July on the Liberator's birthday. And to Hugo Chavez, there is a natural leader of that movement -- himself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hugo Chavez meets other OPEC leaders, clockwise from top left: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi (Libya), President Mohammad Khatami (Iran), Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Than (Qatar), President Saddam Hussein (Iraq), President Abdelaziz Bouteflika (Algeria), President Olusegun Obesanjo (Nigeria), Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan (Abu Dhabi's crown prince). (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); 

CITY: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (51%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COUPS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



573 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: A Shared Racial Legacy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Sept. 17 editorial "The Other Australia" highlights Prime Minister John Howard's unwillingness to apologize for the policy of forcible removal of light-skinned Aboriginal children from their families and communities over many decades. Apologizing was one of the recommendations of a truth commission that documented the experiences of hundreds of victims of the policy. 
 Many Americans are unaware that for decades our own government had an almost identical policy of removal of Native American children from their families and tribal communities. This did not end until 1978, when it was halted by the Indian Child Welfare Act. Victims of this policy -- parents, children and their descendants -- are still alive and should have their stories recorded and preserved. An official report is a necessary step toward reconciliation between Native and non-Native Americans.
 
NANCY D. POLIKOFF
Washington, Sept. 19, 2000
 
The writer is a professor of law at American University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); WRITERS (73%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



574 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: China's Opportunities, And Ours

BYLINE: By William Jefferson Clinton; William Jefferson Clinton is the 42nd president.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
China's imminent entry into the World Trade Organization, made possible by the agreement we negotiated to open its markets and Congress's passage of permanent normal trade relations, can be the most important development in our relationship with that country since we normalized ties in 1979.
The most immediate benefits will be economic. Chinese tariffs from telecommunications to autos to agriculture will fall by half or more. We will be better able to sell and distribute American-made goods in China without relocating our factories, or selling through the Chinese government, or transferring technology. In return, we have agreed only to maintain the access China already enjoys to our market. 
 But if we viewed the passage of permanent normal trade relations solely as an economic opportunity, we would be missing the main point. At stake is how China evolves over a decade or more. Will it resist globalization, or harness it to meet human needs? Will it reject popular demands for more freedom and accountability, or achieve the stability that comes only from letting people shape their own lives? Will it disregard global rules, or work within them?
Trade with China will not automatically bring freedom or peace. But opening China's markets can influence the choices it is making at this important moment in its history.
In the last 20 years, China has established the right to own property and lifted more than 200 million people from poverty. Yet the state still dominates China's economy. Environmental damage is hurting the quality of life and economic growth. Some 800 million Chinese still live off the land; many millions want to migrate to cities, where unemployment already is high.
Hard-liners in China opposed W.T.O. membership because China's closed economic system reinforces their political control. More reform-minded leaders understand that in a global economy, the system must become more open and competitive -- that despite political risks, this is the only way for China to meet its mounting challenges and avoid internal upheaval and disintegration.
In other words, there is a debate under way in China, as elsewhere, about how to adapt to globalization. We have a stake in the course China chooses. Membership in the W.T.O. puts China on a course that will diminish the role of government in its economy and its people's lives, while bringing China into an international system of rules and responsibilities.
As tariffs fall, competition will speed the dismantling of China's state enterprises, meaning that tens of millions of Chinese citizens will no longer depend on the government for everything from their paycheck to their housing to their health care. There will also be tensions -- more short-term unemployment, labor and political activism -- and China's leaders will face hard political choices. We don't know how they will choose when the moment of truth arrives. But there will be great pressure to accommodate popular demands, by expanding local elections, letting workers take grievances to court, and broadening outlets for dissent.
Open markets will also accelerate the information revolution in China. In the past year, the number of Internet addresses in China has more than quadrupled to nine million. This year, the number is expected to grow to more than 20 million. China's effort to restrict access to some Web sites only proves how these changes threaten the status quo.
By agreeing with us on its terms of entry into the W.T.O., China has chosen to work within the international system. By enacting permanent normal trade relations, we have validated that choice, bolstering leaders who favor cooperation, taking an emotional issue away from hard-liners who seek to stoke anti-American nationalism. We still have significant differences with China, but through engagement we have a better mechanism to resolve them. This includes working toward a peaceful resolution of tensions between China and Taiwan. Taiwan will join the W.T.O. immediately after China. Their economic ties will deepen further, and so will the costs of confrontation.
To seize these opportunities, we must clearly understand our interests in China's future. We do not want to see a strong China that seeks confrontation. Nor do we want to see a weak China, beset by internal conflicts and social dislocation, becoming a vast zone of instability in Asia. Ironically, the one sure path to stability for China, as for any nation in this global age, lies in change: in liberating the potential of its people economically and politically, and reducing barriers to international cooperation. We must encourage China to see its success in those terms. How can we do that?
First, China must make enormous changes to meet its W.T.O. obligations -- restructuring industries, publishing long-secret laws and regulations, establishing formal procedures to adjudicate disputes, and leveling the playing field for foreign companies. It has asked us for help in building the expertise to make these changes, developing its legal system, and in addressing its devastating environmental problems. It is in our interest to provide it.
Second, we should continue to bring China into international regimes and institutions that set global rules. China has been more willing to adjust its conduct to meet international standards it has freely embraced than to respond to unilateral demands. For example, it has joined the Nonproliferation Treaty, the Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions, and has strengthened its export controls in accordance with each. We are encouraging it to join the global regime that limits the transfer of missile technology, and to ratify the international human rights treaties it has signed.
That is not a substitute for direct efforts to press China on the transfer of dangerous technology, or peaceful resolution of differences with Taiwan. And America must continue to support from the outside the struggle for human rights on the inside -- as we have by sponsoring resolutions at the United Nations Human Rights Commission and by shining the spotlight on violations of religious freedom -- as we will by working with the new commission Congress has established to monitor China's progress on human rights. But we will be even more effective if we act in concert with others in the context of international rules.
Finally, we must maintain our military presence and our alliances in Asia. There remain enough uncertainties that we must be ready if there is a crisis. If tensions between North and South Korea decrease and if China continues to open up, we may be tempted to draw back. We must not do so. For we are not in Asia simply to respond to danger, but to be a balance wheel for stability that prevents danger from arising. We can play that role even better if adoption of P.N.T.R. and China's entry into the W.T.O. reduces mutual suspicion, while accelerating the pace of constructive change in China.
Of course, that is only an opportunity, not a guarantee. We cannot control the choices China makes. But we do have control over what we do. With permanent normal trade relations, we have made the right choice, to extend our hand rather than merely clenching our fist. Now we must build on it. The 21st century world will be a far better place with China moving in the right direction.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



575 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Cut Down on Out-of-Wedlock Births, Win Cash

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
FOUR years ago, as the whole debate over "family values," single mothers and welfare dependency reached its peak, Congress plopped a $400 million "illegitimacy bonus" program into the welfare reform act.
The program, financed for four years, gives an annual award of $100 million, to be split among the five states that show the largest decrease in out-of-wedlock births with no increase in abortion rates. 
 Last week, Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of Health and Human Services, announced the second round of winners: the District of Columbia (which Congress regards as a state for this program), Alabama, Arizona, Illinois and Michigan will each get $20 million.
"Reducing out-of-wedlock births is a significant way to reduce the risk of welfare dependency," said Olivia A. Golden, an assistant secretary at the department. "We look forward to continued results of state efforts to use the flexibility and resources provided by welfare reform."
But what the bonus really rewards, whether it has anything to do with welfare -- and what, if anything, it accomplishes -- remains murky, said Cory Richards, vice president for policy at the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit research organization focusing on reproductive health and rights.
"About the best you can say for the bonus is that it advertises the issue," Mr. Richards said. "There's no requirement that the states tell the government what they're doing to bring down the rates, or even that they do anything at all, so there's no way states can learn from each other's successes. The federal government gives no guidance to the states as to what they should or shouldn't do to bring down the rates. And much of the period covered was before the welfare act even went into effect."
Others, however, defend the program.
"Research has demonstrated over and over again that single-parent families live in poverty, so asking states to try to reduce illegitimacy rates is clearly a way of addressing the welfare issue," said Susan Orr of the Family Research Council, a conservative policy group in Washington. "The extra money will let the states that are doing a good job help more women and children. It's a way to encourage responsible behavior."
Nationally, about a third of all births in the United States are to unmarried mothers -- a ratio that has been nearly constant for the last six years. But that leveling off comes after decades of rapid increases and growing concerns that children raised in single-parent households do not fare as well as those who live with both parents.
The National Center for Health Statistics says births to unwed mothers accounted for only 5.3 percent of the nation's newborns in 1960, rising to 10.7 percent in 1970, 18.4 percent in 1980 and 28 percent in 1990.
The bonuses awarded this month are based on statistics from 1995-1996 to 1997-1998. And most of the winners showed only tiny decreases in births to unmarried mothers: a 0.02 percent drop in Illinois, 0.29 percent in Alabama, 1.34 percent in Michigan, and 1.38 percent in Arizona. (Only one other state, Oregon, showed any decline.)
The only large decline was in Washington, D.C., where out-of-wedlock births dropped 4.13 percent. The District of Columbia, along with Alabama and Michigan, also won bonuses last year in the first round of the program.
The District has long had the highest out-of-wedlock birthrate in the nation, running above 60 percent. But that, like the recent declines, probably reflects its racial mix: the capital's population is mostly black, and while black women have traditionally had the highest rate of unmarried births, their rates are declining, while unmarried births to white women are on the rise.
Michael Kharfen, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, does not dispute the idea that the bonus, so far, is rewarding demographic changes rather than effective state programs.
"Most of what this is based on precedes the welfare reform act, and most of it is demographics," Mr. Kharfen said. "And it's true that it doesn't target welfare recipients, since it's based on all out-of-wedlock births, and doesn't distinguish among economic background, or the age group, of the unmarried mothers."
As to why the program wasn't more targeted to welfare recipients, he said, "you have to remember this was part of that whole welfare reform exchange with the states, that we give you the money and you have to achieve the goals, but we won't tell you what to do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Baby Think About It" -- a doll that cries unpredictably -- helping a college freshman in Connecticut face the reality of child-care. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PARENTS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (76%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ABORTION (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL KHARFEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



576 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Toward Universal Coverage

 BODY:
The national debate over health policy, which first occupied the top rungs of the political agenda in the 1992 presidential campaign, shifts focus as the nature of problems shifts. In the mid 1990's, the focus was on the soaring cost of health insurance. Toward the end of the 90's, attention shifted to alleged excesses of managed care plans. But one problem never fades away. That is the shameful fact that the United States is the only industrialized power that does not provide some form of universal health coverage for its people. Some 45 million Americans still lack health insurance, and despite a decade of prosperity, the number is growing.
The issue is not just that the uninsured live in constant fear of financial catastrophe. They also suffer medically from the lack of ongoing basic treatment. Studies show that the uninsured are substantially more likely to require hospitalization for festering medical problems like diabetes. 
 President Clinton proposed in 1993 to achieve universal coverage with a massive overhaul of the entire health care sector. But after the plan self-destructed, the administration did little to attack the problem. The issue flickered momentarily as Bill Bradley posed a thoughtful solution during his presidential campaign. Vice President Al Gore, after he snuffed out Mr. Bradley's bid in the primaries, also turned away from the issue, and in the general election campaign, he and Gov. George W. Bush have offered piecemeal plans for extending health insurance coverage. But none of their proposals would knock more than a few million off the dreadful 45 million total that includes 10 million children.
Such tentativeness is unwarranted. There is no more important use of the $4.5 trillion surplus expected over the next 10 years than to do what other wealthy countries have proved is affordable.
The straightforward way to reduce the number of uninsured Americans is to provide them refundable tax credits to help pay for their health coverage. Tax credits lower a family's tax bill dollar-for-dollar to offset the cost of insurance premiums. By making credits refundable, families too poor to owe much tax receive the offset as cash.
Mr. Bradley proposed tax credits of up to $5,000 per family to buy coverage from private plans, including those that cover federal employees. The plan would not have reached everyone -- perhaps leaving 5 percent or more of the population uninsured. Yet the plan would still have cost perhaps $50 billion a year, a price tag that at one time paralyzed debate. But burgeoning surpluses -- estimates of which have risen by trillions of dollars since Mr. Bradley proposed his idea -- make a Bradley-like program affordable.
Governor Bush, by contrast, proposes a tax credit of up to $2,000, costing about $60 billion over 10 years. He would also spend $8 billion to build community health centers. But the tax credit is too skimpy to draw many uninsured families to policies that could cost them thousands of dollars a year more than the Bush credit would cover. Nor does the Bush proposal include requirements that parents buy coverage for children or strong penalties for states that fail to drive down the number of uninsured residents.
Mr. Gore's platform calls for spending about $140 billion over 10 years to raise coverage among the uninsured. He proposes a refundable tax credit for individuals equal to 25 percent of the cost of their coverage. For a $2,000 premium, that would amount to a credit of only about $500.
Mr. Gore fears that tax credits large enough to attract the uninsured would encourage employers to drop coverage for workers. So he would also make more low-income children eligible for the Children's Health Insurance Program, an existing state-run program, and open that program to the parents of eligible children. The Gore plan would permit children from families that earn too much to qualify for the program to buy coverage at an unsubsidized premium. But state programs have been slow to soak up many uninsured children, so Mr. Gore's proposal, though over all a more effective approach than Mr. Bush's, offers little prospect of making a giant step toward universal coverage.
Though it is unconscionable that the richest country in the world refuses to cover the insurance needs of all its residents, neither candidate proposes to do much about the problem anytime soon. True, they have plans to spend the surplus on other purposes, some of which are worthy in their own right. But if this moment -- a moment of unprecedented economic prosperity and looming budget surpluses -- is the wrong one for an aggressive move toward universal health insurance, when will it be right? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (69%); CHILDREN (64%); DIABETES (53%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



577 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Crisis Management;
There's No Shortage of Repositioning on Oil

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN the idea of tapping the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve was floated last winter, in the face of high home heating prices in the Northeast, no one was more skeptical than Vice President Al Gore. Oil-producing nations, he explained to a Massachusetts audience in February, could easily counter the move. "All they would have to do is cut back a little bit on supply and they'd wipe out any impact from releasing oil from that reserve," Mr. Gore said.
That analysis of the realpolitik of the oil market rings as true today as it did then. But the approach of a presidential election has a way of altering the way candidates parse the laws of supply and demand. Thus the decision, announced on Friday, to tap the reserve for 30 million barrels. 
 There is no question that Mr. Gore, stung by Gov. George W. Bush's criticism that the administration has stumbled along with no energy policy, feels he is facing a political crisis. Inventories of oil are running low and everyone from truckers to commuters in S.U.V.'s is getting angry. The Energy Department predicted early this month that home heating oil bills would be 30 percent higher than last winter, and today that looks conservative. Inconveniently for Mr. Gore, the people most dependent on oil for heat live in many of the swing states in the Midwest, which are likely to determine the outcome of the election, now only 44 days away.
But is there an oil crisis?
If you ask the oil experts, the answer is no, or at least not yet. Rather, there is a mismatch between supply and demand that is causing prices to spike upward and has begun to prompt hoarding.
"What we have here is a classic price shock, and it goes back to the Asian financial crisis," said Daniel Yergin, who has tracked the oil markets since the Arab embargoes and sees today's problems as very different. After the financial crisis hit, in 1997, he said, ' companies cut back on their investments around the world.."
At the time, everyone was guessing that it would take Southeast Asia years to pull itself out of the hole it had dug. Few expected the boom in the United States to last this long, or for Europe to be posting strong growth.
So in an industry where profits depend on managing the cost of exploration and inventory, caution prevailed. Exploration firms dug fewer holes and scaled back on new storage facilities. The result, as calculated by Mr. Yergin's firm, Cambridge Energy Associates, is that "world productive capacity is seven million barrels a day less than we would have otherwise expected." And last year, with the price of oil low, OPEC began cutting back production. Even so, by most estimates, the world produces two or three million barrels a day more than the 77 million barrels it burns. But even if it were being distributed and stockpiled with precision, there would not be much left over. And meanwhile, demand is strong -- even in places that a few years ago most experts expected would still be fighting off recession.
That's not necessarily a crisis -- but it could become one fairly quickly. The Pentagon warns that Saddam Hussein might cut off some of Iraq's production or that his renewed threats against Kuwait may force it to cut it off for him. And if any kind of natural or man-made disaster -- hurricane, earthquake, a further political meltdown in Indonesia or a confrontation in the Taiwan Straits -- there is little margin for error.
Or, as Mr. Yergin puts it, "We're at the extreme end of a market cycle. That is always when risk is highest."
All these realities collided in the Roosevelt Room of the White House the other day with the political demands of two campaigns -- Al Gore's and Hillary Rodham Clinton's. Just as Mr. Gore is worried about the Midwest, Mrs. Clinton is worried about upstate New York. And neither could make a convincing case that the administration was easing anyone's pain.
So with prices rising and the election ever nearer, a furious debate broke out within the administration about whether to tap the 570-million-barrel strategic reserve, a legacy of the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo.
That put the ball in the court of Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who had had a bad year in Washington, blamed for doing too little to keep oil flowing in and nuclear secrets at Los Alamos labs from flowing out. Mr. Richardson wrote President Clinton arguing for the release of 60 million barrels of oil.
Yes, he acknowledged, the emergency reserve was created in case of major supply disruptions, not to manipulate prices. But those who live in Michigan or Pennsylvania and are paying exorbitant amounts for heating oil, he argued, probably don't care whether the cause of the problem is Saddam or Exxon. Voters just want it solved.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, a veteran of many currency market interventions (some that worked, some that flopped) took the other side. Mr. Richardson's proposal, he said in a memo that was almost instantly leaked in an effort to embarrass Mr. Summers, would "set a dangerous precedent." Echoing Mr. Gore's point last February, he noted that OPEC could easily neutralize the release of the stockpiled oil. He suggested that oil traders, seeing the approach of an election, might dismiss any action as a political ploy rather than a commitment to reverse oil prices.
He even invoked the name of Washington's other great power, Alan Greenspan, declaring that "Chairman Greenspan and I believe that using the Strategic Petroleum Reserve at this time, as proposed by D.O.E., would be a major and substantial policy mistake."
Maybe so, but in Washington losing an election is also considered a major mistake. So on Thursday the vice president stood in front of some oil tanks in southern Maryland and publicly called on his boss to begin opening the spigots on the reserve. That hardly came as a surprise to Mr. Clinton, who had gotten a call from Mr. Gore two days earlier, informing him of the new campaign initiative.
And on Friday, a happy-looking Mr. Richardson announced the release of the 30 million barrels, about 5 percent of the reserve, a far larger amount than Mr. Gore had sought in public. The White House hopes that it is enough to drive down prices without leaving Mr. Gore vulnerable to Mr. Bush's charge that the release "threatens national security."
Mr. Bush may have a hard time arguing that the release leaves America in peril, but he has a point in his criticism of the Clinton-Gore administration's energy policy. When oil was trading at $20 a barrel, as it was a few years ago, few in Washington worried about the oil market. The administration focused on the economic problems in front of it -- keeping the world economy on an even keel -- and didn't spend much time looking at what might happen if demand for oil picked up while inventory and production capacity were still low.
But Mr. Bush is almost certainly right when he says the administration is redefining the purpose of the reserve, which was created to protect against real supply disruptions. "We think this is a rainy day," Mr. Richardson said. "We think that between now and winter, because of the low stocks of home heating oil, we're in danger of potential disruption."
And, by remarkable coincidence, the 30 days of government-led oil infusions will end just two weeks before the election. Then, Mr. Richardson said, there will still be time to "reassess." Whether he meant reassessing the oil supplies, or the polls, or both, was not entirely clear.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at a gas and oil refinery in Kazakhstan. (Reuters)(pg. 1); Bryan Mound in Brazoria County, Tex., one of four storage sites for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



578 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: The World: Movement;
Growing Up and Getting Practical Since Seattle

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
WITH her Danish mother, her Syrian father, her French passport and her Oxford education, Annie-Christine Habbard, 31, seems every inch the global citizen equipped to succeed in a shrinking world. Yet here she is, chic in black, articulate in several tongues, at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, protesting the state of the globe. What she wants is more social justice, respect for human rights, a "counterpower" to high finance and, for good measure, a more equitable distribution of the spoils from a new Chad-Cameroon oil pipeline.
Say "anti-globalization" and stormy images come to mind: ransackers of McDonald's restaurants in France, smashers of Seattle storefront windows. The police on every corner here, and the shuttered shops, confirm the power of such specters, and indeed some protesters say they want a repeat of Seattle. But the specter of violence can deceive. The deeper reality is more significant: that of an increasingly sophisticated, intellectually robust protest movement, mixing idealism with pragmatism, that is fast playing catch-up with the forces of multinational capital. 
 It is time to change icons: replace the angry visage of Jose Bove, the French farmer recently imprisoned for storming a McDonald's, with the cool features and articulate aplomb of Ms. Habbard.
"Ours is a new planetary citizenship, reflecting the fact that decisions have migrated from state level," Ms. Habbard, the deputy secretary general of the Paris-based International Federation of Human Rights, said. "Voting for national representatives, an old expression of citizenship, achieves nothing, because they have scant power. We have to be here to fight the political battles that will ensure globalization does not continue to accentuate inequities."
SHE is not alone. More than 350 citizens' organizations are here -- debt-reliefers, save-the-Earthers, human-dignity-firsters, and everything in between, representing lands from Mauritius to Mexico. Forget right and left and the stale duels of national politics: the battle of universal principles against universal capital now unfurls.
It might be argued that the lines are being drawn in the wrong place. The $1.2 trillion traded daily on world money markets equals the entire lending of the World Bank over its 55 years of existence. But all that fast-moving money has no identifiable face. By contrast, the altar of market liberalization, privatization and public spending cuts is identifiable, and the protesters are sure such orthodoxy has run its course.
Ms. Habbard is determined to change the world through international human-rights law where her predecessors deployed Marxist revolution or flower power. She is intensely pragmatic. She has lawyers behind her, ready to use the body of international law to compel the World Bank to avoid loans to any projects that might compromise human rights. Multinational corporations are more difficult to control, she concedes, but they are the next target. The Internet links her to other groups like Greenpeace or Friends of the Earth, with their own batteries of lawyers. Nothing dreamy here: this fight to shape globalization has all the romance of a corporate takeover battle.
Organizations like Attac in France, whose membership has increased in two years to 26,000, including more than 20 members of Parliament, argue for taxes on international capital flows, codes of conduct obliging multinationals to respect human rights and restraints on the activities of United States pension funds that pursue returns in Europe in ways that cut back jobs. For Bruno Jetin, a French economist, such measures are essential to "put equality and human beings back at the center of economic debate."
Such ideas have a particular resonance in France, where equality is a founding principle of the republic and rapid Americanization in recent years has stirred uneasiness. But everywhere in Europe, where the state's heavy role in balancing the excesses of the market had been widely accepted, the triumph of the private sector causes some unease. One challenge before these Europeans -- and all the anti-globalists -- is to make the case that their concern for equity will not hobble growth in the developing world, as it sometimes has done on this continent. On the other hand, the intellectual ammunition of the anti-globalists has also been reinforced by the spread of poverty in places that include Eastern Europe -- a trend that has led James D. Wolfensohn, the World Bank president, to use some very strong language here.
"Today you have 20 percent of the world controlling 80 percent of the gross domestic product," he said. "You've got a $30 trillion economy and $24 trillion of it in developed countries. The income of the top 20 is 37 times the income of the bottom 20, and it has doubled in the last decade. These inequities cannot exist. So if you are looking for systemic breakdown, I believe you have to think today in terms of social breakdown."
DRAMATIC words. But another side to the story clearly exists. Open markets and free trade have slashed poverty in East Asia, and a few countries in Africa have also begun to respond to this recipe of economic opening. As Daniel Bachman, chief economist at The Globalist.com, an online magazine, pointed out: "Globalization can also improve conditions by forcing a race to the top." In states like Argentina, the dismantling of local oligarchies caused by open markets has had a tremendous liberating effect. In a place like Haiti, subsistence wages may be undignified, but they are better than starvation.
Globalization can also be a very fertile process. Much has been made of the Americanization of the world, but cultural currents are more mixed than that, and the United States has also been Europeanized, from its coffee to its eating habits. In some areas, such as data privacy, stricter European standards seem likely to prevail, to Ameridcans' benefit.
Yet the president of the World Bank warns of a social breakdown because of the very global economic system he is deemed to personify. So there is clearly a problem, and a growing one. Its nature is economic and political. Some basic statistics are not encouraging -- about 1.2 billion people still living on less than $1 a day, another 1.3 billion people on $2 -- and the diverse protests stirred by such numbers are now so vigorous that dialogue and compromise have become essential.
"If we do not succeed in making clear to citizens that globalization is to their benefit, we run a big political risk," said Caio Koch-Weser, a senior German economic official. "There's a feeling in the population that nobody's in charge. People are afraid of losing jobs to the whims of multinationals. We need to bring Wall Street to Main Street."
This sharpening of official concern reflects the fact that a decade of globalization has allowed a keener dissection of its characteristics. The wild denunciations of the inhuman scourge of rampaging global capital in the French author Viviane Forrestier's immensely popular "The Economic Horror" (one million copies sold worldwide, but unpublished in the United States), have given way to subtler analysis. Often this has concentrated on the way a global economy can prompt a "race to the bottom," as the cheapest labor and lowest taxes are relentlessly sought out. The net effect has been described by the German sociologist Ernest Beck as "the Brazilianization of the West" -- the progressive recourse to uninsured, temporary workers -- and the slow dismantlement of the welfare state.
John D. Clark, a development specialist on leave from the World Bank, has argued that globalization was always a highly selective thing. Advocates of free trade really wanted only an unrestrained market for capital. The result has been to maximize returns on capital, while minimizing returns to labor. "The world over, gaps between rich and poor have widened as richer populations and countries raced ahead of poorer," Mr. Clark wrote recently.
Many economists dispute that view. But officials seem convinced that beyond debt relief, an enormous effort must now be made to give more people the basic tools to benefit from a global economy: education, lifetime training, access to technology, encouragement for the stock ownership that alone will spread America's brand of popular capitalism, in which even blue-collar workers benefit from investing. Without such measures, the distorting effects of the wild premium placed by modern markets on talent and technology seem likely to grow, miring a third of humanity in abject poverty.
The other new priority seems to be dialogue. Mr. Wolfensohn spent time Friday with non-governmental organizations including the Bolivian Episcopal Conference, the Coalition for Democracy and Civil Society of the Kyrgyz Republic, and a representative of something called World Vision from Uganda. Questions ranged from corruption to control of multinationals to that Chad-Cameroon oil pipeline. The meeting, in such a setting, amounted to a first. But the evolution is natural enough: world politics, however cumbersome, for a global economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "These institutions are not democratic. We have not elected them and yet they have so much power over us." HANNES PEKKALA, 23, FINLAND; "I don't want to appear like a radical, but I want to do anything I can to help reduce debt payments for poor countries." HANNAH FRAME, 20, BRITAIN; "We have become so wealthy in the Netherlands, yet people do not try hard enough to eat ecologically. It is really a pity." BERT VAN WAKERA, 40, THE NETHERLANDS (Julie Denesha for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Arantxa Agirrevrreta, 32, Basque region.; Gareth, 35, Britain.; Anna Royo, 20, Spain.; Chris Murphy, 20, United States. (Photographs by Julie Denesha for The New York Times)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); 

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (92%); SYRIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); CHAD (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS LEAGUES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS LEAGUES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (92%); SYRIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); CHAD (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITIZENSHIP (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); FAST FOOD (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (55%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



579 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
As Gas Prices Rose, Excise Taxes Didn't

 BODY:
Although prices at the gas pump have soared this year, it could be worse. 
 With state budgets in good shape, legislators and governors saw little need to raise excise taxes on gasoline and cigarettes this year, or sales taxes in general, according to CCH Inc., a provider of tax and business law software in Riverwoods, Ill., that recently released results of its annual consumer tax survey.
"Cigarette taxes went through a round of increases in 1997 and 1998, and some states raised gas taxes in 1999 when prices were low, but with a strong economy, states haven't been pressed to find additional sources of revenue," said John Logan, a senior tax analyst at CCH.
The survey, conducted in July, found that Connecticut, Nebraska and Nevada actually lowered per-gallon gas excise taxes from a year earlier. North Carolina and Maine raised their gas taxes.
Maine, meanwhile, cut its sales tax by half a percentage point, to 5 percent.
The vast majority of states also stuck to the same cigarette tax rates, though New York and New Hampshire raised theirs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CCHI (NASDAQ) (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CCH INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FUEL TAX (92%); EXCISE TAX (91%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); COMMERCIAL LAW (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



580 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian Is Under Fire For Comments About Timor

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The appointment of a little-known academic as Indonesia's new defense minister has raised widespread concerns both here and abroad not only because he has no experience in military affairs but also because of the statements he has made about East Timor.
Since taking charge of the defense agency in a cabinet reshuffle three weeks ago, Mohammad Mahfud, a constitutional law expert, has said repeatedly that the people of East Timor, who voted overwhelmingly for independence in a United Nations referendum last year, want to return to Indonesian rule. 
 "It is clear that East Timor independence has been a disaster because the United Nations has failed to establish a government there," Mr. Mahfud said in an interview on Friday. "The East Timor people want to come back to Indonesia, but foreign countries that were behind the independence movement are creating violent situations to stop that from happening."
He said "foreign spies" instigated the recent violence in the West Timor border town of Antambua, where three United Nations refugee workers were hacked to death by machete-wielding militia members, while Indonesian military and police officers reportedly stood by and watched.
After the slayings, the United Nations withdrew its aid organizations from West Timor and has demanded that Indonesia disband the militias. The groups pillaged East Timor after last year's independence vote, which freed the territory from decades of military control. The United States has warned Indonesia that it risks diplomatic and economic sanctions if it does not act quickly to control the militias, which are linked to the military.
Foreign diplomats and government officials have expressed dismay over the defense minister's comments, which they said reflected not only his dearth of diplomatic experience but also the deep sense of resentment and humiliation over East Timor's secession that runs across Indonesian society.
"These type of remarks feed into a national sentiment, and many Indonesians, even those who are well educated, believe them," said a former cabinet minister.
"There is a strong tradition in Indonesia of standing defiant against international pressure and blaming your own shortcomings on an international plot. It's a convenient scapegoat."
Indeed, many Indonesians are still stunned that East Timor voted for independence and that foreign troops had to restore order after the militias went on a rampage that the military proved incapable of controlling.
In the interview, Mr. Mahfud accused other countries of picking on Indonesia, and he repeated many of his previous claims, notably that the East Timor independence vote was marred by fraud and that foreign governments were deliberately stirring up trouble.
East Timor has been under a transitional United Nations administration since the Aug. 30 independence vote last year. The territory is expected to gain full nationhood after it holds formal elections next year. About 120,000 refugees, who fled the militia's mayhem following the independence vote, are living in camps on the West Timor border. Aid workers say the refugees are often intimidated by the militias, who do not want them to return to East Timor.
On a visit to Jakarta this week, the United States defense secretary, William S. Cohen, delivered a strong warning that Indonesia would face reprisals if it did not disband the militia groups.
While Mr. Mahfud said that Indonesia would abide by a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for the disarming of the militia in West Timor, he said that it was unjust and discriminatory for the United States to threaten economic reprisals. "The world is treating Indonesia unfairly," Mr. Mahfud said. "No matter what we do, how hard we try, we are always in the wrong."
Mr. Mahfud said the Indonesian military would begin disarming the militia groups this weekend in a two-stage approach that would allow them to turn in their weapons voluntarily before the military begins to confiscate them. He noted, however, that there were several difficulties in disarming the militias.
"The militia are mingling with the indigenous people, and in terms of race and ethnicity, it's not easy to differentiate who is refugee and who is militia, who is from West and who is from East Timor," he said.
Mr. Mahfud also said that the Indonesian military, which was accused of human rights abuses during its occupation of East Timor, is uncertain just how far it should go to track down weapons. "If we are too aggressive then we will be accused of violating human rights, but if we are too lax then we are accused of not doing our jobs," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (97%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: TERRITORY AHEAD (50%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (97%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (88%); REFERENDUMS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ESPIONAGE (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (56%); 

PERSON: MOHAMMAD MAHFUD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



581 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Houston, Smarting Economically From Smog, Searches for Remedies

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
For decades, the stench of the nearby refineries never seemed to concern city leaders here. The hot summer breezes often carried a brown haze over the downtown skyline and, with it, an odor that the business elite regarded as the sweet smell of money.
"Smell that," went a popular local refrain during the 1960's. "That's prosperity." 
 But no one is bragging about the city's bad air anymore. This year, Houston is narrowly leading Los Angeles for the unwanted title of the nation's smog capital. It had 38 days in which smog levels exceeded federal standards. The Environmental Protection Agency is threatening sanctions if something is not done. On Monday, readings of ozone, a primary ingredient in smog, were so high that residents in some neighborhoods were advised to stay indoors.
So, for Houston, famous for its lack of zoning and its pursuit of free-wheeling capitalism, the polluted skies are forcing the city to do something that once seemed almost blasphemous here -- submit to government regulation. Even more, the proposed remedy calls for self-restraint that represents a major philosophical shift in this city.
Yet, ultimately, the same economic self-interest that fueled Houston's unchecked growth is shaping its response to its air quality problems. In a new economy that prizes "clean" industries over polluting manufacturers, Houston is at a competitive disadvantage. Local technology companies are finding it harder to recruit employees, while business leaders fear that the city's image as the "pollution capital" is hurting its efforts to recruit companies and industries.
"It's absolutely necessary that we solve this problem if we want to continue having economic growth and the lifestyle to which we are accustomed," said George Beatty Jr., an official with the Greater Houston Partnership, the region's chamber of commerce.
Despite broad agreement on the severity of the problem, there is plenty of opposition to the proposed solution. This week, state officials held public hearings on a 19-point proposal to bring Houston into compliance with the federal Clean Air Act by 2007. The plan mandates a 90 percent reduction of industrial emissions, bans the use of heavy construction equipment and lawn mowers in the morning, reduces speed limits on highways and calls for coating new air-conditioning condensers with an experimental spray that supposedly eats ozone.
On Monday, 800 furious people in suburban Brazoria County threatened to sue. They said they should be exempted because most of the pollution is generated elsewhere. On Tuesday, the air-conditioning industry argued that the condenser spray is unproven and would double prices. Landscape architects and contractors blanched at restricting work hours, and leaders of the petrochemical industry suggested that a 90 percent reduction in emissions might be impossible.
"It's going to be tough on a lot of people," Commissioner Ralph Marquez of the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission said at a hearing Tuesday in downtown Houston. "But the consequences of not doing it are greater."
The heaviest burden falls on the petrochemical companies that dominated the local economy until the collapse of the oil economy during the 1980's. The companies are responsible for the bulk of the pollution. Even today, nearly half of the petrochemical capacity in the United States remains on the eastern side of Harris County, which includes Houston.
"Clean air is important and has to be achieved, but at the same time we have to maintain a strong economy," said Paula McLemore, a chemical company executive speaking for the East Harris County Manufacturers Association, which represents 120 plants and refineries.
Ms. McLemore said her group was encouraging its members to do everything possible to meet the proposed goals, but she added that technology might not exist to enable every industry to reduce emissions 90 percent. "Technology exists to get us to the 70 or 75 percent level," she said. "Beyond that, it remains to be seen." She added, "We're going to support this to the best of our ability."
For decades, the same men who ran the city's refineries also ran the city, and did so with the attitude that government should stay out of the way of business and development. As a result, Houston has perhaps the worst urban sprawl in the nation; its borders encompass 617 square miles, enough space to contain Chicago, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Detroit.
"It was a place where you could make a lot of money, a place where the entrepreneurial spirit was unmolested," said Stephen Klineberg, a Rice University sociologist.
But public criticism of the refineries is becoming increasingly acute. At Tuesday's hearing, one man called for a moratorium on new petrochemical plants, an unthinkable proposition in the past. Another woman criticized state officials for approving plans to expand the Port of Houston and to build a chemical plant near the suburb of Clear Lake.
"My first recommendation is simple, and it falls under what is called common sense," said Tamara Maschino of Clear Lake. "You clean up what you got before you add any more pollution."
Mr. Klineberg, who conducts an annual survey of attitudes in Houston, said the changing attitudes partly reflect the fact that the city's economy is no longer dominated by the petrochemical industry. He described the willingness of groups like the Greater Houston Partnership to embrace pollution reduction as "a sudden 180-degree turn in the business leadership," even if the motives remain largely unchanged.
"The goal has always been the same -- exploit whatever advantages you have to maximize profits," he said. "That's exactly what's happening now. Suddenly, in the new world, our location next to the East Texas oil fields is no longer enough to get people to move here."
The deadline for completing a plan is approaching. The last of 14 public hearings is scheduled for next week, and state officials will accept written comments through September. The conservation commission must make a recommendation to the Environmental Protection Agency by December. The agency will spend about a year negotiating with state officials before implementation begins in 2002.
Environmentalists note that much of this could have been avoided had state officials heeded warnings more than five years ago to seek reductions in emissions of nitrogen oxide, a primary raw material in the creation of ozone. Ground-level ozone is formed in hot, sunny climates when nitrous oxides from smokestacks, automobiles and other sources react in the air with hydrocarbons such as unburned gasoline. Unlike Houston, Los Angeles began fighting nitrous oxides roughly a decade ago, and its ozone levels have dropped significantly.
About 55 percent of Houston's nitrogen oxide is generated by industry, 25 percent comes from cars and trucks and 20 percent can be traced to airplanes, trains, ships, lawn mowers and construction equipment.
In the end, the home of NASA and the first indoor baseball stadium, the Astrodome, must find creative ways to clean up the air without killing the golden egg of its economy. Jim Marston, head of the Environmental Defense Fund, which is part of a task force working on the ozone plan, said Houston's businesses must consider an array of ideas: paying employees the value of a monthly parking spot as an incentive for them to car-pool; encouraging more telecommuting; charging lower registration fees and insurance rates for people who buy gas-efficient cars; and other strategies.
None is a panacea, but Houston must consider just about anything. At the Tuesday hearing, for example, one woman recommended using robotic emission-free lawn mowers. It was an interesting concept with a familiar angle -- her company makes them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Houston, leading Los Angeles for the title of smog capital of the United States, has had 38 days this year when smog levels exceeded federal standards. The city is seen from the south, home to petrochemical industries. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SMOG (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (74%); ZONING (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SPEED LIMITS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (65%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PAULA MCLEMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



582 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: 40 STATES FORFEIT HEALTH CARE FUNDS FOR POOR CHILDREN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Forty states will soon lose hundreds of millions of dollars of federal money that was supposed to provide health insurance to children in low-income families, federal and state officials say.
The money -- 45 percent of the $4.2 billion provided by Congress -- remains unspent by the states after three years. It will be given to New York and nine other states that used their full allotments of federal money under the Children's Health Insurance Program, which was created by Congress, with much enthusiasm and fanfare, in 1997. 
 "We would like to be able to keep that money and use it to provide health care to children," said Helene Robinson, director of the state program in Louisiana, which expects to lose $63.7 million, or 63 percent of its federal allotment of $101.7 million.
California and Texas account for more than half of the unspent money -- $590 million and $446.3 million, respectively. Together, they have 29 percent of the nation's 11 million uninsured children.
Health care for children has become a major issue in the presidential campaign. Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, says Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican candidate, has a dismal record of providing health insurance to children in Texas.
Mr. Bush rejects the criticism. Texas officials say 100,000 children have enrolled in the new program since they began taking applications in April.
Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Gore "should address the problems on his own watch." Mr. Bartlett said that the number of uninsured children nationwide had increased since the Clinton administration took office, and Census Bureau reports show that the 11 million figure is up from 9.6 million in 1993.
States have until Sept. 30 to spend the money they were allotted. In interviews with The New York Times, officials in 20 states gave these reasons for failing to use their full allotments:
*Some states took a year or more to start enrolling children.
*Some were reluctant to put up the state money they had to spend to obtain the full amount of federal money available.
*Some states said they could not find enough eligible uninsured children to use all their federal money.
*Some states inadvertently deterred enrollment by using complex application forms and procedures.
*Some states complained that the federal government had administered the program in a rigid, inflexible way that prevented them from spending the money for children who might have benefited.
In addition to New York, the states that have used all of their 1998 allotments are Alaska, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Missouri, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and South Carolina. Those states will have just one year to spend the extra money, which reverts to the Treasury after Sept. 30, 2001.
The Children's Defense Fund, an advocacy group, celebrated creation of the program as a landmark in social policy. But Gregg Haifley, deputy director of the fund's health division, said the group was now telling states: "Get off the dime. Spend this money on what it's intended for. Don't let it just pile up or trickle through your hands."
The Children's Health Insurance Program is meant to help children in families with too much income to qualify for Medicaid and too little to afford private insurance. State officials said the program had done immense good, by providing care to more than two million children while also stimulating improvements in Medicaid.
But spending has lagged behind expectations. Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services, said, "A significant portion of the allotments will be unspent."
Colorado illustrates the experience of many states. It has spent $22.7 million of its 1998 allotment of $41.8 million and expects to lose the remaining $19.1 million, or 46 percent of its allocation.
William N. Lindsay, president of the Child Health Policy Board in Colorado, which supervises the program, said: "If we enrolled every single eligible child in Colorado, we still couldn't spend our full allocation of federal money. Our economy is doing so well, there are fewer eligible kids than what was estimated when the federal government did its initial allocation of money."
Congress provided a total of $40 billion over 10 years. States had three years -- from Oct. 1, 1997, to Sept. 30, 2000 -- to use the first year's installment of $4.2 billion. State and federal officials said that $1.9 billion of that amount would be unspent at the end of this month.
Frank C. Ullman, a health policy expert at the Urban Institute here, said, "It is likely that even fewer states will exhaust their 1999 allotments," which remain available through September 2001.
New York has the biggest child health program in the country. It has used all of its federal money for 1998 and 1999 and much of its allotment for 2000. Enrollment in New York has reached 550,000, about one-fourth of the national total, and is growing by more than 15,000 a month.
Connecticut has spent $25.5 million of its $35 million allocation and expects to lose $9.5 million, or 27 percent of its money.
In New Jersey, Edward J. Rogan, a spokesman for the Department of Human Services, said the state had spent $78.4 million of the $88.4 million available from the federal government. "Unfortunately," Mr. Rogan said, "that leaves a balance of $10 million. We would like to have spent the entire allotment."
The federal government pays from 65 percent to 84 percent of the costs of state programs to insure low-income children.
In Louisiana, State Senator Donald E. Hines, a Democrat who is also a family physician, said: "We were not able to take advantage of some of the federal money because we had difficulty coming up with the state matching money. We had a shortfall in our budget in the last two years. This year we made cuts in the health and hospitals budget. I don't think we needed the entire amount of federal money anyhow."
New Mexico said it would use just $5.1 million of its $62.9 million allotment, leaving $57.8 million, or 92 percent, unspent.
J. Barry Bitzer, deputy secretary of the Human Services Department in New Mexico, said: "The federal law and regulations provided New Mexico with a lot more money than we could possibly use. We have 30,000 uninsured kids, of whom no more than 1,000 are eligible for the new program."
Florida has spent $201 million of its 1998 allotment of $270 million, leaving $69 million, or 26 percent, unused.
Justin J. Sayfie, a spokesman for Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, said: "There was a lag in getting the program up and running. The Florida Legislature didn't meet until March 1998, and Florida started implementing the program in October 1998. We were one year behind the curve."
Illinois has used $55 million of its allotment of $122.5 million, leaving $67.5 million, or 55 percent, unspent.
Eric P. Robinson, a spokesman for the Illinois Department of Public Aid, said: "We are aggressively reaching out to enroll children, but it's unrealistic to think we could have used $122 million in three years. We can't just flip a switch and achieve full enrollment."
California, which was allotted $854 million, expects to lose $590 million, or 69 percent of its federal money.
Diana M. Bonta, director of the California Department of Health Services, said the program got off to a slow start under Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican. But, she said, since Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, took office in January 1999, enrollment has increased at a brisk pace, to 330,000 from 56,000.
Ken August, a spokesman for the California agency, said: "The application form was long and confusing. It's been greatly simplified. It was 28 pages. It's now 4 pages. And it's available in 11 languages."
New Hampshire has used $4 million of its 1998 allocation of $11.5 million, leaving $7.5 million, or 65 percent, for redistribution to other states. Kathleen A. Dunn, a state official who supervises the child health program in New Hampshire, said the federal government "allocated more money to us than we needed to bring this program online."
By contrast, Indiana found more uninsured children than expected, and it has spent all of its allotment of $70.5 million to cover them.
States may not use the new federal money to cover children eligible for Medicaid. This has created problems for states like Minnesota and Washington, which expanded Medicaid eligibility before 1997 and were already covering most low-income children.
Minnesota says it has spent less than $500,000 of its $28.4 million allotment. Washington State has spent $2.2 million of its $46.7 million allocation.
"We did something progressive, but we did it too early," said Mary B. Kennedy, the Medicaid director in Minnesota.
West Virginia, one of the poorest states in the nation, has used $12 million of its $23.6 million, leaving $11.6 million unspent. The state says that its new program covers 11,600 children, but that 14,000 youngsters still have no health insurance.
"It's regrettable that, for whatever reason, we didn't have our plan approved until September of 1998," said Dorothy V. Yeager, acting director of the West Virginia program. "We lost one of the three years we had to spend the money." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN'S HEALTH (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CENSUS (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



583 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Carl Rowan, Writer and Crusader, Dies at 75

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Carl T. Rowan, the crusading journalist, best-selling author and defender of affirmative action, proud to call himself a liberal, died today.
He was 75 and lived in Washington. 
 Mr. Rowan, who had been hospitalized for various illnesses in recent weeks, died in the intensive care unit of Washington Hospital Center, said LeRoy Tillman, a hospital spokesman, said.
Born on Aug. 11, 1925, in Rav enscroft, Tenn., a dying coal-mining town in the heart of Jim Crow country, Mr. Rowan grew up poor during the Great Depression.
In his autobiography, "Breaking Barriers," he wrote of living with "no electricity, no running water, no toothbrushes" and "no telephone, no radio and no regular inflow of money."
He scrubbed porches in a tuberculosis hospital to earn money to attend Tennessee State College in Nashville. There, he passed a national competition and went on to become one of the first 15 African-Americans to be commissioned officers in the United States Navy during World War II.
The commission, he said, changed his life because he was able to use the G.I. Bill of Rights to get a college degree in mathematics from Oberlin College in Ohio and a master's degree in journalism from the University of Minnesota.
His first job in journalism was as a copy editor at The Minneapolis Tribune, and as a young reporter, he covered the civil rights battles in the South, including the Supreme Court's decision requiring school desegregation. At the time, he wrote in his autobiography, "no more than five blacks could claim to be general assignment reporters, and few were writing anything serious about the American social, political or economic scene."
His passionate reporting on race relations made him one of the most highly visible and vocal black men in America and prompted President John F. Kennedy to appoint him deputy assistant secretary of state with the assignment to help integrate the State Department. He was also a delegate to the United Nations during the Cuban missile crisis, ambassador to Finland in the Kennedy administration and director of the United States Information Agency in the Johnson administration, which in 1964 made him the highest-ranked black in American government.
Mr. Rowan returned to journalism in Washington in 1965, making race a prominent theme of his columns and television commentaries.
"First, I see myself simply as a newspaperman and commentator," Mr. Rowan once told an interviewer. "I inform people and expose them to a point of view they wouldn't get. I work against the racial mind-set of most of the media."
He liked to describe himself as "an independent non-Republican."
In 1987, after he learned about a local high school where black students were embarrassed to stand as their names were called in an honor roll ceremony, he created a scholarship program called Project Excellence to encourage blacks to finish high school and go on to college. Over the years, the program disbursed millions of dollars in scholarships and teamed up with the Freedom Forum to award additional "instant scholarships" worth millions more.
Among his eight books are biographies of Jackie Robinson ("Wait Till Next Year") and Thurgood Marshall ("Dream Makers, Dream Breakers") and "The Coming Race War in America," a book that was praised when it was published in 1996 for its predictions about the disastrous state of race relations in America.
In 1988, Mr. Rowan, in his columns a firm advocate of strict handgun control, found himself in the center of a gun controversy when he fired a shot using an unregistered pistol to wound a teen-age intruder in his backyard. He was arrested and tried, but argued that he had the right to use whatever means necessary to protect himself and his family. The jury deadlocked and the judge declared a mistrial.
Three years ago, his columns denouncing financial malfeasance on the part of Benjamin Chavis, then national chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, contributed to Mr. Chavis's resignation and a change in leadership at the organization.
Mr. Rowan's column, published three times a week, was nationally syndicated by King Features and appeared in about 60 newspapers. The winner of many major journalism awards, he retired in 1996 from the Washington public affairs program "Inside Washington" after 29 years.
He is survived by his wife, Vivien; two sons, Carl Jr., a lawyer, and Jeffrey, a clinical psychologist, both of Washington; a daughter, Barbara Rowan Jones of Clifton, Va., a former journalist; and four grandchildren.
In a 1997 interview with The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Mr. Rowan said, "Racism is still very much a factor in America." It "is part of the American culture," he added."And there are still millions of Americans who believe blacks are inferior."
Asked which of his accomplishments made him most proud, Mr. Rowan replied, "Well, the thing I am most proud of is that if I walk down the street and meet somebody who is poor, black, Hispanic, they say, 'You never sold out.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carl T. Rowan (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); WRITERS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); CHRONIC & INFECTIOUS DISEASE HOSPITALS (72%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (72%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); NAVIES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); COAL MINING (56%); TUBERCULOSIS (54%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (51%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



584 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Attempt for the Euro Falls Short of Bankers' Hopes

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Sept. 23

 BODY:
One day after the world's major central banks announced a startling rescue attempt for the euro, Europe's struggling currency, the effort showed signs today of being more modest and tentative than it first appeared.
To the disappointment of some European bankers, American officials refrained from speaking out robustly in support of a stronger euro and raised doubts about their willingness to intervene forcefully in currency markets by selling dollars or buying euros. 
 Central bankers also made it clear today that their intervention was over, at least for the moment. Although both European and American officials said they might well intervene again on behalf of the euro, they also cautioned that there was no reason to assume that they would do so.
"There is no strategy to continue and continue," Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, said today after a meeting here of central bankers and financial ministers from the Group of 7 industrialized nations. "Intervention will take place when we deem it appropriate."
Mr. Duisenberg electrified financial markets on Friday by arranging and announcing a coordinated intervention supported by central banks in the United States, Japan, Britain and Canada.
By far the biggest surprise was the participation of the United States Treasury, which had been icily indifferent to the seemingly endless decline of the euro from about $1.17 against the dollar in January 1999 to 84 cents last week.
Yet after an original jolt, when the euro surged to 90 cents, it settled back to 88 cents.
The European Central Bank has offered no hint of how much money it used to buy up euros on Friday, but experts and traders say it appears to have been no more than $6 billion or $7 billion. It could be less. Dow Jones Newswires, quoting an anonymous official at the European Central Bank, said the actual amount of the intervention was in the "low single digits" -- perhaps $2 billion or $3 billion.
Mr. Duisenberg said he wanted to achieve an "orderly reversal" of the euro's decline, suggesting that the European Central Bank is seeking to do more than simply prevent the euro from losing more value.
But many experts and bankers are far from sure that the rescue attempt will be enough to overcome the skepticism of institutional investors, many of whom were badly burned by buying euros that fell, rather than rose, in value.
"The market badly needs a statement from the Americans that the euro is substantially undervalued and the dollar is substantially overvalued," said Klaus Friedrich, chief economist at Dresdner Bank A.G. He added, "There has to be bucks behind it."
American officials were far more circumspect. Lawrence H. Summers, the United States Treasury Secretary, said American officials were genuinely concerned about the decline of the euro, but he reiterated that American policy was to support a "strong dollar."
In a communique issued by the Group of 7, the finance ministers merely repeated their "shared concern" about the "potential implications of recent movements in the euro for the world economy."
By all accounts, European finance ministers and the European Central Bank scored a surprising coup by persuading the United States Treasury to cooperate in a rescue attempt at all.
Until Friday, the Treasury had been generally opposed to calls for intervention. That view reflected a strong skepticism about the effectiveness of interventions in general as well as a belief in the benefits of a strong dollar -- cheaper imports that ease inflationary pressures.
Today, American officials were ready to lend the name of the United States to a rescue attempt, but it was much less clear how much money they were ready to commit or how enthusiastic they were for the dollar to sink against the euro.
Psychology and timing may ultimately be more important than the amounts of money used by the world's central banks on the euro's behalf. After announcing the intervention, officials at the European Central Bank emphasized their interest in refuting the widely held conviction that they could not enlist American cooperation. They say they wanted to send a signal that the euro was important enough as a global currency to receive support from other big central banks.
European finance ministers expressed their general support for intervention at a meeting in Versailles this month. But Mr. Duisenberg said the discussions with American and Japanese officials did not begin until Thursday, after the euro had tumbled to its record low of 84 cents against the dollar.
He and the presidents of national banks in Europe then carried on what appear to have been a multitude of telephone conference calls with their counterparts in Tokyo, Washington and London.
American officials today likened the efforts to those in 1998 to shore up the yen. The Japanese currency did reverse its tailspin against the dollar, but the dollar has remained very strong against the euro and roughly stable against the British pound.
Deutsche Bank A.G., in an early assessment, said the European Central Bank had at least established a "solid floor" for the euro. But it cautioned that the euro would recover only if investors' shed their overwhelmingly negative opinions of the currency's prospects.
Thomas Mayer, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Frankfurt, is dubious about that prospect. "I am doubtful about their ability to make a real difference here," he said today. "They are up against very skeptical sentiments to the euro across a broad range of investors." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); DRESDNER BANK AG (61%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (53%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CENTRAL BANKS (93%); EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



585 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: In Big Offshore Oil Discoveries, Frail Visions of a Redeemed Angola

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: ABOARD THE PRIDE ANGOLA, off Ambriz, Angola, Sept. 19

 BODY:
A mile beneath the emerald waves lies some of the hottest real estate in the world. Next year Angola hopes to pump a million barrels of oil daily from the ocean floor. By 2010 rigs like this one in the South Atlantic may export more crude than Kuwait.
Twenty-five years ago, Angola's first black government dreamed of harnessing this energy to improve the lives of its desperately poor people. But if the gods rained gold on Angola, the wealth has been largely consumed by the government and its war machine, fueling the continent's longest-running civil conflict. 
 Yet Angola, a symbol of the worst kind of subversion of natural riches, now teeters on the brink of fresh opportunity. With the civil war ebbing and oil prices soaring, the government is taking tentative steps to redirect its vast oil revenues toward rebuilding the country.
In a detailed agreement with the International Monetary Fund made public last month, the government has promised to increase spending on health and education nearly threefold and to allow independent auditors to scrutinize its figures on oil profits, which make up 90 percent of export income and have not previously been fully disclosed.
The government apparently hopes to gain access to the fund's low-interest loans and to shed its image of callous corruption that has allowed a generation to grow up with only faint memories of electricity or running water or houses without bullet holes.
Angola's history is littered with broken promises and squandered opportunities, and whether President Jose Eduardo dos Santos will make good on his commitments remains unclear. But the government's shift corresponds with strong signals that the public is increasingly unwilling to keep enduring misery.
For the first time, people have stood up by the thousands to protest the endless war, corruption and wasted revenues in a country that is at once the eighth-largest supplier of oil to the United States and one of the world's poorest nations.
In June, in the largest of a series of protests that began eight months ago, about 6,000 people walked through the cracked and buckled streets of the capital, Luanda, to a stadium to call for peace.
This week, Catholic leaders met in the provincial town of Uige to press the government to respect human rights and to begin a dialogue with the rebels, who have been considerably weakened by government soldiers in the past year.
They are small but significant steps for a people who have shied from challenging a government that often arrests and jails journalists and demonstrators who question the status quo. But it only takes a visit to Angola's crumbling cities to understand the discontent.
So far this year, as the country marks a quarter-century of independence from Portugal, at least eight people have starved to death in prison because the government did not provide enough food, the state-controlled newspaper reported.
More than a third of the children admitted to the country's best pediatric hospital die, partly because they get inadequate care there, the hospital's annual report concedes. And while oil revenues have surged, the government investment in health has dropped from 8 percent of total spending in 1991 to 2.8 percent in 1999, according to the International Monetary Fund and health experts.
Still, the unusual convergence of recent events has ignited unexpected flickers of optimism. An international campaign against diamond smuggling, the primary source of income for the rebels who have opposed the government for virtually the entire period of independence, has made it difficult for them to rearm.
The government no longer threatens to kill the rebel leader, Jonas Savimbi, and promises pardons to rebels willing to lay down their guns.
Over the last four years, more oil has been found in Angola than in any other country, and companies are expected to offer millions just to peek below the waves. This month, the world's biggest oil companies began frenzied bidding for the right to explore the latest underwater expanse opened by the government.
And these days, some dare to dream that this bountiful oil -- which has increased profits of American companies like Chevron and Texaco, helped buy government tanks and AK-47's and reportedly lined some official pockets -- may someday end up helping the hungry.
"Just a few years ago, this hope we have now would have been unthinkable," said Luis Maria Perez de Onraita, the bishop of Malanje Province and one of the most outspoken Catholic leaders in the fledgling peace movement, which held its first national congress in July.
He has seen two peace accords collapse over the past ten years. He has watched children die from malnutrition in a country that once exported food to the world. He is 67 now, and creases line his forehead and silver glimmers in his hair. He has grown old waiting for peace.
"At times we feel like voices in the desert, worthless," the bishop said. "Perhaps we are fighting for a utopia. But we cannot continue as we are. Angola is rich, but what good is that if the Angolan people themselves do not benefit?"
The Portuguese, who began exporting oil in the 1950's, made no pretense of sharing the wealth. And after independence in 1975, Angolans watched their own leaders turn on one another in cold war battles.
On one side was Mr. dos Santos's party, the Marxist Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, backed by the Russians and the Cubans. On the other was the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, led by Mr. Savimbi and supported by the United States and the apartheid regime of South Africa.
When the cold war ended, the fighting continued, financed with the profits from diamond and oil sales. Mr. Savimbi violated both peace treaties of the 1990's and returned to war, most recently in 1998.
But even during a period of relative peace from 1994 to 1998, the government accomplished little, despite huge oil revenues. Today, fewer than 5 percent of municipalities have functioning justice systems and fewer than half of school-age children attend school, according to the United Nations.
And without the World Food Program, about 1.5 million people would be at risk of starvation. Yet the nation's oil accounts have remained largely secret until now.
"People talk about corruption, and I think there is corruption here and there," conceded Hendrik Vaal Neto, the minister of communications, who works in a shabby office where the elevator seems permanently frozen between floors. "But I don't think this a corrupt government or a corrupt country, no. There is corruption everywhere in the world. People seem to forget there was a need for rapid re-equipping of the army and air force, and you don't get that for nothing."
The situation now is different, he continued. "We are in a better position, and the economy and social problems of the people are our main concern. Can we miraculously solve our problems? No, no one can do that. But now you will see the government doing more."
In fact, as he was speaking earlier this month, government officials were scrambling to meet the International Monetary Fund's December deadline.
The United States needs Angola's oil, and some American officials concede that this need dampens their willingness to chastise Angola or demand too much, too quickly. The government, which has billions of dollars in bad debts, needs the fund's seal of approval to restore its creditworthiness.
And while it is unlikely that officials will meet that December deadline, economists familiar with the negotiations said it would probably be extended to allow the government more time to redirect its spending and to carry out reforms.
"This is the best chance at the moment that we have of any leverage on the government," said Alex Vines, the Angola researcher for Human Rights Watch, who has been critical of the government.
"There is a possibility, a glimmer of hope," Mr. Vines said in a telephone interview from London. "They understand they have to improve their image. But whether their action is very cosmetic and superficial is the question."
In their report last month, officials of the fund said they were "encouraged by the authorities' commitment to the reform program." But the disparity between oil revenues and the lives of ordinary people is still enormous.
On the Pride Angola, the deep-water drill bores through the seabed, using technology unavailable even 10 years ago. The British oil company BP-Amoco has been exploring this stretch of water known as Block 18 for more than two years now. So far, every place it has drilled it has hit gold.
Interest among foreign oil companies is so intense that the government plans to inaugurate direct corporate jet service between the oil capitals of Houston and Luanda by the end of the year.
"There are not many places around to make these kind of discoveries," said Martin Eldon, the managing director of Texaco's Angola office. "That's what all the excitement is about."
But that means nothing in Uige, where the town clock is stuck at 3 o'clock and the only oil anyone seems to know about are the metal cans of kerosene and gasoline sold in the state oil company shop.
There was a time when electricity and piped water coursed through the town, and the authorities lined the avenues with street lights and installed faucets and sinks in hospitals and schools. These days, hospital orderlies lug in sloshing jugs and buckets of water to bathe patients and flush latrines. And at night, the town sinks into a smoky haze of charcoal fires and candlelight.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Angolan oil wealth may improve schools like this one in Kuito, which has been scarred by a long civil war. In an detailed agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the government has promised to increase spending on health and education almost threefold. (Paulo Oliveira for The New York Times)
 
Map of Angola shows the location of Ambriz: Drilling off Ambriz could yield one of the richest oil fields.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CORRUPTION (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); HISTORY (77%); STARVATION (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); ACCOUNTING (67%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



586 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 4606 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: BREAKING INTO BASEBALL;
Road to Politics Ran Through a Texas Ballpark

SERIES: GOVERNOR BUSH'S JOURNEY: Breaking Into Baseball

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Tex.

 BODY:
For those who mock George W. Bush as a daddy's boy who slouched through life reaping the dividends of his name, the lovely Texas Rangers baseball stadium here is a useful rebuttal.
Walking around the Ballpark in Arlington as it was under construction in 1993, Mr. Bush explained proudly to a Texas reporter, "When all those people in Austin say, 'He ain't never done anything,' well, this is it." 
 This stadium is the house that Bush built -- and the one that allowed him, in a sense, to become a presidential candidate. As the owner of a baseball team in Arlington, a Dallas suburb, Mr. Bush laid the groundwork for his race for the governor's mansion, and that in turn may prove his steppingstone to the White House.
As an owner, Mr. Bush proved himself an outstanding manager, still remembered fondly by the players who pitched and batted for him, by the fans he wooed, even by the executives he fired. Mr. Bush helped turn the Rangers into a greatly improved team, and he presided over the complex arrangements for the new ballpark, one of the finest in major league baseball.
Mr. Bush became a multimillionaire in the process, setting himself up financially for his run for the presidency. In one blow, he acquired not only wealth but also the resume he would need to triumph in politics.
Yet a close look suggests that Mr. Bush got the opportunity to be a baseball owner mostly because of his connections. Moreover, his investment was immensely profitable in part because he and his co-owners were shrewd bargainers who charmed and bullied the city of Arlington into giving them a great deal, with the local taxpayers paying more than $135 million to help build the Rangers a stadium.
"The largest welfare recipient in the state of Texas is George W. Bush," said Mark S. Rosentraub, a sports economist who formerly taught in Arlington and is now at Indiana University. "The numbers speak for themselves. You cannot accept $135 million from the taxpayers of Arlington and then be against welfare."
Mr. Bush and his fellow owners even got the local government to seize the property of other landowners and, in effect, hand it over to the Texas Rangers so that they could make a profit on it. All this was shrewd business and a tribute to Mr. Bush's savvy and vision, but critics complain that it is hard to reconcile with his speeches about limited government and private property rights.
"If a conservative is one who believes in limited government, this whole transaction shows how hypocritical it is for Bush to claim to be a conservative," said Jim Runzheimer, a lawyer in Arlington who opposed the public subsidy to build the stadium. "He got the government to pay his expenses, and that flies in the face of capitalism."
Yet Mr. Bush was simply doing, exceptionally successfully, what sports franchises everywhere have frequently tried: getting taxpayers to swallow some of their business costs. And to the extent that Mr. Bush's job at that time was to make money for the team's owners, he was eminently successful.
A longtime friend of Mr. Bush's and a fellow Rangers' owner, Roland W. Betts, noted that the criticisms in effect confirm Mr. Bush's success in doing his job.
"Didn't he profit off Arlington?" Mr. Betts asked. "Is it politically right to pit one community against another? Well, you have to say that at that point, George wasn't the governor of Texas. He was a general partner, he was a fiduciary, and a fiduciary's obligations are to perform well for investors. And that's what he did."
 
'I Just Grabbed On to It'
George W. Bush has frequently claimed to have cobbled together the deal to buy the Rangers in 1989.
"I was like a pit bull on the pant leg of opportunity," Mr. Bush said in a long interview about his past. "And I just grabbed on to it. I was going to put the deal together. And I did."
But that is a bit like Vice President Al Gore claiming to have taken the initiative in creating the Internet: there is something to it, but it is also an exaggeration.
The initiative, Mr. Bush acknowledges, came from Bill DeWitt, a businessman and friend of the family. Mr. DeWitt had heard that the Rangers were on the market and wanted to recruit Mr. Bush as a partner to buy the team.
The attractiveness of Mr. Bush as a partner had little to do with his business ability; at that time, his business record was a bleak one involving faltering oil companies. Rather, Mr. Bush was useful because his father was then the president and because he and his parents were longtime friends of the seller, Eddie Chiles. If anybody could get a good deal buying the team from Mr. Chiles, it would be Mr. Bush.
Sure enough, Mr. Chiles said he would be delighted to sell the team to Mr. Bush. So Mr. Bush, always a brilliant fund-raiser, persuaded a group of relatives and acquaintances to invest in the team. But most were not from Texas, and the baseball commissioner, Peter Ueberroth, wanted the teams to have local owners.
Mr. Bush was flummoxed.
At this point, Mr. Ueberroth and other baseball executives persuaded a Texas financier, Richard Rainwater, to help buy the team. By all accounts, the attraction of Mr. Bush in the deal was his name and connections.
"It certainly helped," Dr. Robert W. Brown, then the president of the American League, said of Mr. Bush's status as First Son. Dr. Brown, a former Yankee third baseman better known as Bobby, added: "He came from a very prominent group. I was very friendly with his father. So it wasn't just a strange happenstance."
Mr. Bush's path to becoming a baseball owner was remarkable because at first he did not put up a cent of his own money. Instead, he borrowed $500,000 from United Bank of Midland, a Texas bank of which he had previously been a director, and used it to buy a stake in the team.
Wayne Merritt, who was then the president of the bank (it has since been merged out of existence), said he could not discuss the loan because it was "Mr. Bush's private business." But Robert A. McCleskey, Mr. Bush's longtime accountant, said that as collateral for the loan, Mr. Bush had pledged oil company stock then worth more than $900,000.
In any case, a year later Mr. Bush sold the stock and paid off the loan. He also raised his investment in two stages to a total of $606,000, or 1.8 percent of the team.
Mr. Bush himself seemed to acknowledge the advantage that came with his name.
"Being the president's son puts you in the limelight," he told a reporter for Time magazine after buying the team. "While in the limelight, you might as well sell tickets."
 
A Passion for the Game
Throughout his life, baseball has been one of Mr. Bush's truest loves. As a child, he collected baseball cards and was a catcher on the all-star Little League team in Midland, Tex. As governor, he decorated his office with his collection of baseballs autographed by the likes of Ted Williams and Joe DiMaggio. And even these days on the campaign plane, he perks up when baseball teams are mentioned and seems more intimate with the fine print of the sports pages than of the foreign news pages.
Mr. Bush's passion for baseball and his deep understanding of it helped him as he settled into his new role as an owner. While he initially grated on some Texans who saw him as a spoiled rich kid playing on his connections, he worked hard and impressed people in the baseball world.
Instead of watching games from an enclosed suite, as many owners do, Mr. Bush sat and ate peanuts in Section 109, Row 1, behind the Rangers' dugout. He got to know all the hot dog vendors and ticket-takers by first name, tirelessly introduced himself to fans and aggressively cultivated reporters.
Jim Reeves, a sports columnist for The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, recalled that he had initially been skeptical of Mr. Bush, thinking that he had gotten the opportunity to be an owner simply because of his name. But Mr. Bush then wooed him, golfing with him twice and stopping frequently to chat, and Mr. Reeves changed his views.
"I saw him as a down-to-earth guy," Mr. Reeves recalled. "He would come to spring training and do his running and hang around the weight room or the clubhouse and stop and chat about the team."
"He was," Mr. Reeves added, "excellent with the media."
Mr. Bush also worked to charm the players, dropping by the clubhouse and socializing easily with them. He came across as the direct opposite of the stereotype of an imperious, pretentious owner.
"From the get-go, I liked him," said Kenny Rogers, who pitched for the Rangers then and rejoined the team this season. In particular, Mr. Bush became friendly with Nolan Ryan, the legendary pitcher who had just agreed to sign with the Rangers when Mr. Bush's group bought the team.
Mr. Ryan had been expected to play just one year with the Rangers before retiring. But he ended up playing five years, and when he was inducted into the Hall of Fame last year, he wore his Rangers cap, even though he had played more seasons with other clubs.
The Rangers had ranked sixth in the American League's Western Division the two years before Mr. Bush came on board; they clawed their way up to second place by his last year of full-time involvement. Since then, they have won the division three times, although it's not clear how much credit if any Mr. Bush should get for that.
Mr. Bush had a particular knack for getting media attention, beginning when he got his mother, then the first lady, to throw out the first ball in a game. He also managed to get his father photographed wearing a Texas Rangers cap, and he took advantage of his family's prominence by giving speeches throughout the region proclaiming the virtues of baseball and urging people to go to games.
All this promotion paid off. The Rangers had never drawn as many as 1.8 million fans in a season in previous years, but attendance exceeded 2 million each year of Mr. Bush's stewardship.
It was less obvious to the fans, but Mr. Bush also proved an astute businessman and a first-class manager. In his presidential campaign, he sometimes describes leadership using the model of a chief executive in business, and that is what his colleagues remember him as: a leader who set an agenda, inspired those around him, acted predictably and was comfortable delegating authority.
Owners in baseball are notorious for being haughty and difficult, but Mr. Bush cultivated the opposite image. Instead of micromanaging -- suggesting a pitching change during a game, for example -- Mr. Bush proved then (as now) relatively uninterested in details and happy to delegate to those beneath him. It is hard to find anybody who worked in the ballpark who did not like him and did not periodically chat with him.
"He always picked my mind about what Latinos went through in baseball and, indirectly, what Latinos went through in the U.S.A.," said Luis Mayoral, who was then the Latin American liaison for the Rangers. "We'd kid a lot in Spanish. He'd see me in the distance and raise his arms and say 'a la victoria.' "
It helped that Mr. Bush came across not as a rich boy but as a notorious cheapskate. He regularly wore shoes with holes in the soles, until a fellow owner, Edward W. Rose III, bought him a $150 pair of fancy Italian shoes at Neiman Marcus.
"And then he took them back," Mr. Rose laughed. "The way he remembers it, with his convenient memory, is he traded them in for two shirts. But that's not the way it really was. Actually, he traded them in for cash."
Sometimes Mr. Bush made management mistakes -- the Rangers traded away Sammy Sosa on his watch, although Mr. Bush simply approved a decision that had been made well below him -- but his management style also won him fierce loyalty. Tom Grieve, then the Rangers' general manager, says that owners typically try to tell tales of their old college baseball days to show off, but Mr. Bush won his heart by doing the opposite.
"George came in here and said, 'Tommy boy, let me tell you about my days with the Yale freshman team,' " Mr. Grieve recalled with a chuckle. "You know it's going to be funny, because that's like a high school junior varsity team down here. And he was the relief pitcher! And he says how one day the pitcher really screwed up, and the coach decides to pull him, and George is really excited and thinks he's got his big chance.
"And then the coach calls in a second baseman even though he'd never thrown a pitch. And Bush says, 'That's when I figured my aspirations of becoming a major league player might not be achieved.' "
Although he charmed people, Mr. Bush was not a patsy. In the end he fired three key people: Mr. Grieve as general manager, Bobby Valentine as manager, and Mike Stone as president. Mr. Stone declined to talk about it, but Mr. Valentine and Mr. Grieve rave about the man who fired them.
"If I'd been him, I'd have done the same thing," said Mr. Grieve, who is now one of the Rangers' television announcers. "It was the logical thing to do, based on the baseball facts."
"The way they handled the whole thing made me feel better about them after it was all done with," he added.
Mr. Valentine, who has been the manager of the New York Mets since late in the 1996 season, said of Mr. Bush, "Once the emotion was out, I still really liked him."
While in baseball, Mr. Bush demonstrated a grasp not just of tactics but also of strategy. His central strategic goal was to get a new stadium for the Rangers without making the owners pay for all of it.
 
A Huge Public Investment
The old Arlington Stadium was a mess.
Built in the early 1960's as a minor league ballpark and later remodeled with extra seating, it lacked the scale -- and the lucrative extras like sky boxes -- that these days help generate revenue for a professional baseball team. The previous owners had spoken with the city of Arlington about renovating the stadium, but studies had suggested that would be prohibitively expensive.
On the other hand, a new stadium would cost close to $200 million, and the owners were already saddled with debts and did not want to inject more capital into the franchise.
So what could they do? Get the people of Arlington to build them a new ballpark.
The efforts to get public financing have raised eyebrows because they seem to conflict with much of what Mr. Bush has stood for as a politician. While running for office, he has always called for limited government and low taxes, and the 2000 Republican Party platform in Texas (which he does not publicly embrace) explicitly states, "Public money or public powers should not be used to fund or implement any private projects such as high-speed rail or sports stadiums."
Yet the Rangers negotiated a huge public investment of taxpayer money, largely by hinting that without it they might leave. To a place like Arlington, already overshadowed by neighboring Dallas and Fort Worth, the Rangers were an emblem of local pride, and the possibility that it might lose the franchise was shattering.
In addition, there was an awkwardness in the negotiations: Arlington Mayor Richard Greene, who negotiated the deal with the Rangers, was a defendant in two civil suits with federal regulators involving his former activities as a savings-and-loan executive. He settled one, in the middle of the stadium debates, by paying $40,000, and he later settled the other by paying $125,000.
"How can you negotiate on behalf of the city when you've got a lawsuit against you from the administration of the father of the guy across the table?" asked Mr. Runzheimer, the stadium critic. "Bush had him over a barrel."
Mr. Greene dismisses the criticism. "George had no knowledge of my problems; there is no connection," he said.
In the end, the two sides in Arlington agreed on a deal in which the city would put $135 million into building a stadium; the Rangers would get $17 million in cash to pay off a debt, while giving the city land worth considerably less than that; the Rangers would get virtually full control over the project but be exempted from obligations of ownership like paying school taxes; and the Rangers would have the right to get the entire stadium complex for nothing after 12 years of paying a modest rent. (It would have been foolish for the Rangers to take the stadium, even for nothing, because then they would have had to pay taxes, and the later owners of the team gave up that option to buy the stadium.)
The Rangers also contributed a sum to the ballpark that was originally put at $90 million. But this was arguably illusory, and the owners were not asked to invest a penny of fresh capital. Instead, the team raised its share by dedicating future revenues from seats, luxury suites and concessions -- in the stadium that the city was building for them.
"The taxpayers took it in the shorts," said William M. Eastland, an accountant in Arlington who studied the agreement and came to oppose it. Mr. Eastland, a lifelong Republican, emphasizes that he supports Mr. Bush in the election -- indeed, he was a Bush delegate at the Republican National Convention -- but he still objects to public financing of the stadium.
"You can call it anything you want, but it's corporate welfare," Mr. Eastland said. "And I don't like corporate welfare."
Still, whatever one thinks of such deals for sports complexes, they have become frequent.
"It's one thing to say, 'Why are we building this for owners and for right fielders who get $14 million a year?' " said Jeff Smulyan, who owned the Seattle Mariners when Mr. Bush ran the Rangers. "But the reality is that if you want a ball team in a place like Arlington, there has to be a public-private partnership."
Mr. Smulyan describes himself as a lifelong Democrat, but he has nothing but praise for Mr. Bush. And he adds that the kind of stadium arrangement Mr. Bush worked out is almost inevitable.
Indeed, Professor Rosentraub calculates in his book about stadium economics, "Major League Losers," that governments in two places, Seattle and Cleveland, provided more than $500 million in subsidies for sports, and four others provided subsidies of more than $300 million. St. Louis was so desperate to get a football team that in the mid-1990's it built a $280 million stadium to attract any football team that might be feeling restless. It worked: the Rams moved in from Anaheim, Calif.
On the other hand, after voters rejected a series of four proposals for public financing of a new stadium for the San Francisco Giants between 1987 and 1992, the team went ahead with a new $320 million ballpark that was privately financed, and that has been widely praised.
In Arlington, there was plenty of controversy about the subsidies for the Rangers, but the verdict that really mattered came from the voters in January 1991. The city's contribution was to be paid by an increase in the sales tax, and that had to be approved in a referendum. With a huge turnout, voters endorsed the agreement and the sales tax increase by almost a two-thirds majority.
"Who is the final judge of whether you made money on the backs of the city of Arlington?" asked Mr. Rose, Mr. Bush's fellow owner. "Is it some journalist who wants to sell papers, or the people who think or know that they made a good deal?"
While the stadium is clearly popular, there is disagreement about the economic outcome. Supporters note that the local economy is booming and credit the ballpark.
"There's no question that the ballpark made a huge difference for this franchise," said J. Thomas Schieffer, who succeeded Mr. Bush as general partner of the Rangers. "But we think the citizens of Arlington benefited as much as the owners did."
Professor Rosentraub, in contrast, attributes the boom to the vibrant metropolitan area and new malls. The stadium itself, he asserts, was a losing economic investment, although he adds that he has nothing against voters who want to lose money as a way of boosting civic pride.
"I'm not saying I don't like it," Professor Rosentraub said of the stadium. "I like it. I'm a baseball fan. It's just that it's a regressive tax taking money from the poor and middle-income people and shifting it to a very wealthy group of people. It's a redistribution of wealth upward."
 
Questions About Fairness
Aside from the public subsidy, another aspect of the ballpark project angers some people.
While the Rangers' owners arguably had enough land for the new ballpark and parking lots, they foresaw that one way to make money would be to own and develop property around the new stadium. Over time, a popular stadium could make the surrounding land more desirable so that it could be profitably transformed into strips of hotels, restaurants, gas stations, office buildings or even houses.
The owners always tried to keep their partnership agreement secret, but a copy of the 110-page document, obtained recently, lists among the purposes of the partnership not just profiting on baseball but also "owning, managing, operating, exploiting, selling or disposing of real estate."
As Mr. Bush told a local reporter after buying the team, "The idea of making a land play, absolutely, to plunk the field down in the middle of a big piece of land, that's kind of always been the strategy."
The problem was that some of the land belonged to other people.
As a politician, Mr. Bush has repeatedly sided with the property rights movement, which aims to protect property owners from government attempts to take land or limit its use. Often this issue comes up in environmental cases, and the national Republican platform this year -- which Mr. Bush's aides helped mold -- has an entire section titled "Protecting Property Rights."
"In Texas, in my first term, we enacted one of the strongest property rights laws in the nation," Mr. Bush declared in a speech on the environment late last year. "As president, I would follow the same policies."
But when Mr. Bush was running the Rangers, the team got Arlington to use its power of eminent domain to seize private land for the new stadium complex. At one level, this was simply one more way for Arlington to give the Rangers an incentive to stay. But the practice raised questions about fairness.
Confidential memos among the Rangers owners became part of the public record in subsequent litigation, and they paint a picture of the owners casting a proprietary eye over the area and then telling the city what land to seize. In one internal memo, for example, an owner referred to a privately owned parcel and told the other owners that it "sounds like another condemnation candidate -- if you want to work the site into your master plan."
Judging from the memos, Mr. Bush was not directly involved in the mechanics of the condemnation. But he supervised those who were, and the process reflected his own philosophy of how to make money in baseball: move beyond tickets and hot dogs to seek new sources of revenue.
The Mathes family was one of those that tangled with the Rangers when they were under Mr. Bush. The family, the heirs of a television tycoon named Curtis Mathes, owned a piece of land near the stadium, and agreed to sell if the price was fair.
What would be fair? The city had previously paid $10 a square foot for a sliver of that same property to expand a road, Horace B. Kelton, a family member and spokesman, said. But in the end, court documents show, the city warned off another potential buyer and seized the property for less than $1.50 a square foot.
The Matheses went to court, and a final settlement gave the family more than $11 per square foot.
"It took us seven years and we spent millions of dollars on legal costs," Mr. Kelton said. "It was grossly unfair, until it was rectified by the courts."
The Rangers see it differently. Mr. Schieffer notes that property values had fallen in Texas and insists that it was the Matheses' lawyers who hijacked the process and got more than the land had been worth.
After the settlements, the Rangers, tough bargainers to the end, refused to pay, noting that the legal obligation to pay lay with the city of Arlington. It was only last year, after Mr. Bush and his group had sold the Rangers, that the new owners agreed to repay the city for the losses.
"They made a heck of a deal," Glenn Sodd, the lawyer who represented the landowners against the Rangers, said of Mr. Bush and his fellow owners. "If he was the architect of it, it indicates some brains on his part."
But Mr. Sodd, who said he had voted Republican in every presidential election since 1968, added that he would not vote for Mr. Bush this time around because of what he said was his repugnance for the "dirty pool" played by the Rangers owners.
"My concern is whether billionaires and powerful people are going to run the government the way they ran that deal," Mr. Sodd said. "Otherwise I'd be voting for the guy. If it weren't for this nightmare we went through, I'd be voting for him."
 
The Road Not Taken
One of the skills Mr. Bush demonstrated with the Rangers was an ability to disagree with people without coming across as disagreeable.
It was that talent that almost led his career in a different direction, one that would have kept him in baseball and out of politics. There had been a bitter dispute among major league owners about Fay Vincent, the baseball commissioner and an old friend of the Bush family. Mr. Bush had been Mr. Vincent's most vocal supporter, but in the end the other owners -- led by Bud Selig, the owner of the Milwaukee Brewers -- forced Mr. Vincent to resign.
Even though Mr. Bush was on the losing side, he was widely respected among the owners for his conciliatory style and commitment to baseball, and some suggested that he be appointed to replace Mr. Vincent as a way of healing the rift among the owners. Several friends say that in early 1993 Mr. Bush was very interested in the job.
"George wanted to be commissioner, and Selig said he'd support him but didn't," Mr. Vincent said. "And if George had become commissioner, he wouldn't be running for president. So if he's elected, he'll owe the job in some way to Selig."
Mr. Selig, who was then acting commissioner and eventually was given the job permanently, has a different memory. He said he recalled no specific discussions with Mr. Bush about him getting the job, adding that in any case a decision on a new commissioner was put off until long after Mr. Bush had decided to run for governor.
When he began campaigning for governor, Mr. Bush's full-time involvement in baseball came to an end. But he retained his financial interest until 1998, when he and his fellow owners sold the Rangers -- very shrewdly, at the top of the market -- for $250 million.
It was a good deal for all the owners. The limited partners, who had leveraged their capital with loans, made a 450 percent profit on their investment. And Mr. Bush did far better.
As general partner of the Rangers, Mr. Bush was paid $200,000 a year. But, more important, he was rewarded with a provision that after the investors got their money back plus 2 percent interest per year, he would get a gift of a 10 percent share of the remaining profits.
The result was that his investment of $606,000 turned into $14.9 million. In addition, he is likely to receive a final distribution of another $1 million or $2 million over the next year. That will amount to at least a 2,500 percent profit.
 
Governor Bush's Journey
This is the 15th article of a series about the lives of the presidential candidates. Future installments will look at Al Gore and religion and George Bush's political revival.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: George W. Bush, former President George Bush and J. Thomas Schieffer, who succeeded George W. as general partner of the Texas Rangers, at a ballgame in 1994. (Texas Rangers Baseball Club); The Texas Rangers' stadium, known simply as the Ballpark in Arlington, opened in 1994 and was built during George W. Bush's tenure as one of the team's owners. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 37); The pitcher Nolan Ryan with George W. Bush, Rangers owner, in 1992. (Louis DeLuca)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (82%); NEW YORK RANGERS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (82%); NEW YORK RANGERS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); GOVERNORS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); PROPERTY LAW (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



587 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Memo;
With the Soft-Money Issue, Lazio Becomes a Player

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Representative Rick A. Lazio made no mention of campaign finance reform in his speech accepting the nomination as the Republican Senate candidate on May 30. In eight years in Congress, he was never closely identified with the issue, although he did vote on House bills advocating it. And he barely mentioned the subject until August, after two months of aggressive and fruitful fund-raising showed him catching up to his rival.
But in the last few weeks, he began talking like a crusader about rooting out soft money, which political parties and interest groups use to allow candidates to skirt legal limits on political fund-raising. It is, Mr. Lazio said, "the kind of money that has distorted the political process, the kind of money that has kept young people from having more confidence in the political system, the kind of money that is unregulated, unlimited and creates a great deal of cynicism for the public." 
 Six weeks before Election Day, Mr. Lazio's advisers believe they have finally found the issue that gives their candidate a recognizable public profile.
The advisers, and some outside strategists, say Mr. Lazio's embrace of campaign finance reform has given him a way to stand toe-to-toe with Mrs. Clinton, to put her on the defensive and show, despite his obscurity as a little-known Long Island congressman, he can play in big league politics. There is also a practical side; Mr. Lazio is outraising her in strictly regulated hard-money contributions and stands to benefit financially from an agreement, which the two candidates tentatively reached yesterday.
But Zenia Mucha, senior adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki, a patron of Mr. Lazio's candidacy, said Mr. Lazio stood to gain even without an agreement. Merely raising the issue plays into Mr. Lazio's line of attack that Mrs. Clinton, any Clinton, cannot be trusted. His advisers say polling shows that a key weakness for Mrs. Clinton is her trustworthiness, not only stemming from association with White House scandals but also from the belief she is in this race more out of self-interest than out of concern about New York.
But it is also true Mr. Lazio has made his boldest strokes on the issue at times he or his campaign came under scrutiny. His only appearance with Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has championed campaign finance reform, came Aug. 4, a few days after Mr. Lazio's brief appearance at the Republican National Convention fed a round of "Where's Rick?" articles (not offered a prime-time speaking role, he turned down an opportunity for a short daytime speech).
He initiated his soft-money pact at a news conference at Planet Hollywood in Manhattan 10 days later -- the day Mrs. Clinton appeared at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, where Hollywood fund-raisers were held on her behalf.
And he brandished the pact again a month later at the candidates' first debate, on Sept. 13 in Buffalo, with his actions seen as a pivotal opportunity to make a stamp on voters' minds after Republican murmurs about a lethargic campaign had grown worrisome.
From that point on, Mr. Lazio has pushed the issue relentlessly, raising it to deflect questions about whether he was too aggressive with Mrs. Clinton during the debate.
Some analysts believe that whatever the motive, Mr. Lazio has finally demonstrated an ability to stand up to Mrs. Clinton, to cast off questions over whether he belongs in the same arena as the first lady.
"He is showing he is as big as she is," said Rick Wilson, a Republican consultant who advised Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani on his aborted Senate bid. "He is showing he can take on a national issue and be a national player. He has not been able to score on her with anything else."
But few see Mr. Lazio, who stepped into the race after Mr. Giuliani quit, as morphing into Mr. McCain, who reserved judgment on how this issue might affect Mr. Lazio's standing. "I can't make the argument if this helps or hurts his political campaign, although I am a supporter of his," Mr. McCain said Friday in an interview. "I believe this is the highest-visibility race in two centuries, and it would be great if both candidates say, 'We won't have anything to do with this dirty money.' But whether it helps or hurts Rick, I just don't know."
A number of people from Mr. McCain's staff joined Mr. Lazio's campaign, notably Michael Murphy, Mr. Lazio's senior strategist.
Still, Mr. Lazio is somewhat of a latecomer to Mr. McCain's signature issue, which played into the senator's maverick style. And although campaign finance reform is closely identified with Mr. McCain, whatever campaign success he garnered stemmed from a variety of factors. Mr. McCain's war record -- he was a prisoner of war in Vietnam -- and his swashbuckling reputation deeply impressed voters, some say more so than his talk of political reform.
Even absent the style, Mr. Lazio's aides believe the issue can give his campaign some of the verve by pushing the Clinton camp's buttons.
As Mrs. Clinton addressed editors and reporters Wednesday at a conference in Albany, Mr. Murphy, who had attended Mr. Lazio's speech to the group an hour earlier, sat a couple of rows away. When Mrs. Clinton said she was encouraged by Mr. Lazio's producing signatures from outside groups promising to stay out of the race, Mr. Murphy had a brainstorm. He picked up his cell phone and called his communications director to find out whether Bill Dal Col, Mr. Lazio's campaign manager, would be available to go over to Mrs. Clinton's Manhattan office that night to press for a meeting.
He was and he did, facing off with Bill de Blasio, Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, before a gaggle of reporters.
Whether the theatrics of confrontation will sway voters, or whether the issue is a touchstone for voters, is debatable.
Up in Erie County, and many other parts of the upstate battleground, it is improving the economy, not banishing soft money that voters want to hear about, said James E. Campbell, a professor of political science at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
"Soft money is probably an issue not really highly salient for voters, but on the other hand it doesn't divide voters," Mr. Campbell said. "Everybody is for cleaner campaigns. And so it is kind of a no-lose issue for Lazio, and it also provides a chance to bring up the character issue. If Mrs. Clinton is not forthcoming on this, her image will be hurt with swing voters. It's going to be an extremely close election, so anything that puts a dent in Mrs. Clinton's public image is helpful to Lazio." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



588 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Makes Further Moves To Lower Cost Of Heating Oil

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The Clinton administration took several additional steps today to cushion the oil market against shortages this winter and to soften the shock of higher prices on consumers. Like the temporary release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, announced on Friday, the new measures are intended mainly to ease tight supplies of heating oil, President Clinton said.
Environmental regulators are to explore ways to permit more varieties of heating oil to be burned, the government will try to smooth out the effects of its own fuel purchases, and the administration will ask state utility regulators to keep a sharp eye on fuel inventories at power plants and factories, he said. 
 At the same time, Mr. Clinton directed the Department of Health and Human Services to release $400 million in aid to poor families to help them buy fuel, a record allocation for this annual disbursement.
"The overriding purpose for our action is to increase supply and help consumers make it through the cold winter," Mr. Clinton said. He defended as "plainly a prudent thing to do" his decision to release crude oil from the reserve, which had been recommended by Vice President Al Gore but was denounced by Gov. George W. Bush as a political ploy.
But despite the avowed focus on home heating oil, the broader effects of the intervention in energy markets will be felt by consumers whenever they fill up at a gas station, pay for an airline ticket, or even pay the family's bills for electricity or natural gas, according to energy experts.
Of the 30 million barrels that the government will lend to refineries in the next several weeks from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, 85 to 90 percent will be turned into products other than home heating oil, Energy Department officials said. Fixing a shortage of heating oil is like confronting a shortage of brisket, they said; you have to kill the whole steer, which will also produce hamburger and sirloin, along with leather.
Refineries will vary the proportions slightly, depending on market prices for products, but in general half of each barrel of crude oil becomes gasoline, a quarter becomes heating oil or diesel fuel (which are nearly identical) and a tenth becomes jet fuel. The rest goes to everything from lubricating oils to asphalt to floor wax.
Because of futures markets, which send price signals faster than oil can flow physically through pipelines, consumers can expect to see prices declining across the spectrum fairly soon. But because the oil that will be released must be paid back later by oil companies, prices may rebound later, experts say.
Even before the announcement on Friday, which came after futures markets closed, heating oil for delivery in October fell by 4.41 cents a gallon, to 95.48 cents.
But only about 10 percent of households use heating oil or kerosene as their primary fuel, according to the Energy Department's most recent survey, in 1997. (That is down from 22 percent in 1978.)
Philip K. Verleger Jr., of the Brattle Group, an economic consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said that the gush of oil onto the market would probably push the price of crude down by $5 to $7 a barrel, which comes to 10 to 15 cents a gallon.
That could be enough, depending on such factors as the weather, to save a typical oil-heated household up to $100 over the winter, and a family might well experience similar savings for gasoline over several months of driving.
The price of goods transported by trucks would also be held down. And because oil and gas are sometimes substituted for each other -- in electricity generation and various other industrial uses -- a decline in the price of one fuel would hold down the price of the other, experts said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEATING OIL (92%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); FUTURES (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); MARKET INCIDENCE (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); JET FUEL (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); FAMILY (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); WAXES (71%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



589 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-23
 
Industrial Powers Push For Cut in Oil Prices
Top American financial officials, fresh from parallel plunges into world oil and currency markets, joined Group of 7 allies in promising to fight what they labeled twin threats to the record-breaking American economic expansion. The allies negotiated a joint communique calling on oil-producing nations to cut prices, saying a reduction was "crucial for the world economy." 1 

Angolan Oil Offers Hope
Next year Angola hopes to pump a million barrels of oil daily off its coast, and the government is taking tentative steps to redirect its vast oil revenues toward rebuilding the shattered country. The government has promised to increase health and education spending and to allow independent auditors to scrutinize its figures on oil profits, which have not previously been fully disclosed. 14
 
Yugoslavia's Vote and Beyond
The people of Yugoslavia will vote on Sunday in what everyone agrees is a watershed election for the future of President Slobodan Milosevic, who trails his main challenger, Vojislav Kostunica, in the opinion polls. But no one knows how Mr. Milosevic and his government will react to the vote, or how the people of Serbia will respond. 6
 
Peru's Complex Power Reality
President Alberto K. Fujimori has promised to dismantle the powerful National Intelligence Service, prompted by the broadcast of a video late last week that shows his security adviser apparently offering a bribe. But experts say that even if he means what he says, a complete purge may be extremely difficult. 14
 
NATIONAL 24-38
 
A Political Career Built at the Ballpark
As an owner of the Texas Rangers, Gov. George W. Bush helped improve the team and build a new ballpark. He also acquired wealth and a resume he would need to succeed in politics. 1
 
Mr. Bush is now spending an unexpected amount of time and money campaigning in Florida. And Republicans have begun to second-guess the Bush campaign, saying it took the state for granted and failed to see signs of Vice President Al Gore's potential to win. 32
 
Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate, is struggling in the polls, but he has been attracting huge and adoring crowds on the campaign trail. 32
 
States Forfeiting Aid
Forty states will soon lose hundreds of millions of dollars of federal money that was supposed to provide health insurance to children in low-income families, officials say. 1
 
Houston's Smog Problem
Houston now narrowly leads Los Angeles as the nation's smog capital, and the Environmental Protection Agency is threatening sanctions. 24
 
More Steps on Oil Prices
The administration took several more steps to cushion the oil market against shortages and to soften the shock of higher prices on consumers. In addition, President Clinton called for $400 million in aid to help poor families buy fuel. 29
 
Hollywood Facing the Senate
Hollywood studios are in the throes of deciding how to defend themselves in hearings on the marketing of R-rated entertainment to children. 30
 
NEW YORK/REGION 41-50
 
Mrs. Clinton and Lazio Reach Tentative Deal on Soft Money
Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio reached a tentative agreement to forgo the use of millions of dollars in soft money for advertising in the New York Senate race, but the deal included several conditions and provisions that could derail it and came just a day after talks on a similar proposal collapsed. Both sides would place a ban on television and radio advertisements paid for by political parties with so-called soft money. 1
 
Migrants Find Suburbs Hostile
When two Hispanic immigrants seeking work were lured to an abandoned building in Farmingville, N.Y., and attacked by two white men wielding a knife, a crowbar and a shovel, the assault was a sobering reminder of the lives of the unwanted strangers. Emotions are raw, it is estimated that in the summertime, one in 15 residents is a migrant worker. 1
 
OBITUARIES 53-54
 
Dawn Langley Simmons
An author whose tumultuous life included a sex change operation and an interracial marriage that scandalized her adopted hometown, Charleston, S.C., she was 77. 54
 
Carl T. Rowan
The crusading journalist, best-selling author and defender of affirmative action was 75. 53
 
Chess 53
Weather 55
Cong. Vote 50 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); PERU (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (58%); NEW YORK SENATE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SENATE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); PERU (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES VOTERS & VOTING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POLITICS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ACCOUNTING (69%); BASEBALL (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); US GREEN PARTY (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); SMOG (63%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); AL GORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



590 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Others Press for Cuts In Price of Oil

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The top financial officials of the United States, fresh from an unprecedented synchronized plunge into world oil and currency markets, joined other rich nations today in vowing to fight what they described as double jeopardy for the global economy.
In a communique issued after Group of 7 financial leaders met here, ministers said they would monitor currency markets to see whether they needed to follow Friday's coordinated central bank action to shore up the euro, Europe's battered common currency, with further interventions. But they used stronger language on oil prices, saying it was "crucial for the world economy" that oil-producing nations take steps to reduce prices, which have tripled since early 1999. 
 "Oil prices are the largest dark cloud in the blue sky of the global economy," Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said after the Group of 7 meetings, speaking of a recent run-up in the price of crude oil to a 10-year high of more than $30 a barrel. "Prices need to return to a more historical range."
The Clinton administration's decision on Friday to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help dampen oil prices won praise in the communique. Other Group of 7 nations are considering releasing oil from their reserves, and ministers discussed ways of breaking oil distribution bottlenecks and ways of putting diplomatic pressure on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, officials said in describing the talks.
The attempts to correct currency and oil prices cast the United States, which often argues that such markets should take care of themselves, as an aggressive interventionist, evoking expressions of surprise from other Group of 7 ministers. Several said Friday's concerted buying of euros and selling of dollars, yen and other currencies had gone smoothly, though some traders expressed doubts that the American, British, European, Canadian and Japanese central banks would continue to do whatever it took to push the euro up against the dollar if sentiment turned negative again. "It was surprising how well the action went," said Germany's finance minister, Hans Eichel. "Especially before the U.S. election, it was surprising the U.S. even participated."
The high-level talks on how best to corral market prices underscored how officials had come to view the euro's weakness and oil's strength as major inflationary threats that pose an immediate and largely unanticipated danger to global growth, which according to recent forecasts was keeping the fastest annual pace in more than a decade.
Broad political considerations also played a role. The relentless decline of the euro challenged the concept of European integration generally, especially as Denmark prepares to vote on Thursday on whether to join the euro zone.
Longer term, Europe faces a paradox: Its drive to expand both the geographical and political reach of the European Union depends in good measure on the euro, the showpiece of the region's economic common interest. But currency traders increasingly lost faith in the euro, European Central Bank officials argued to their Group of 7 counterparts, because they saw insufficient political weight behind the currency, which was introduced 21 months ago.
American officials largely accepted those arguments when discussing whether to join the European Central Bank in defending the currency in the open market, a decision that Mr. Summers and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, made in the middle of last week. It was the first such intervention the United States has undertaken since it helped Japan raise the value of the yen in 1998.
The United States has long lent its support to European integration because it is seen as a way of ensuring stability in a region where America has fought two world wars.
The attempt to rescue the euro was closely intertwined with the Clinton administration's decision to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Several European nations, including Britain and France, have had sustained protests by truck drivers and others hurt by oil prices.
Prices at the pump, already far higher in Europe than the United States because of heavy tax, have risen even more sharply here than across the Atlantic because oil is bought and sold in dollars, which have been rising in value against the euro almost in tandem with the oil price spike. American officials were counting on an uptick in European growth rates to extend the American-led economic expansion of recent years, something that seems less likely if Europe is hit by an inflationary shock.
There was also growing trans-Atlantic concern that the weakness of the European currency and the inflationary impact of high-priced oil gave Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, his best opportunity since the Persian Gulf war to wreak havoc on his Western adversaries. With oil supplies already short, the Western world depends on Iraq continuing crude production, something he could cut off at any time.
Group of 7 ministers in effect dismissed a French proposal to organize a summit meeting between the Western powers and OPEC. But they agreed to pursue bilateral contacts with OPEC counterparts, including a coming French session with Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Summers said he hoped that the United States' decision to provide 30 million barrels of oil from its reserves would persuade traders to stop snapping up forward contracts for oil in anticipation of severe winter shortages, a key factor behind the rising price.
In comments the currency markets will have to decipher this week, Mr. Summers also stressed that there was "no contradiction" between his decision to sell dollars to buy euros and his oft-repeated view that a strong dollar is vital to American interests. His insistence that America has not changed its currency policy suggests that Mr. Summers does not foresee the euro's rising sharply against the dollar -- and, further, that any continued United States intervention in currency markets would be limited unless the euro resumes its plunge.
Meanwhile, as the Group of 7 ministers met in private sessions, President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic invited about 100 people representing charity and pressure groups concerned about globalization to debate the heads of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund at Prague Castle. The officials and protesters have gathered here for the annual meetings of the Washington-based lending agencies, which will continue for several days.
During the two-hour session, followed by a walk through the gardens of the sprawling Prague Castle, many environmental and social activists peppered the World Bank president, James D. Wolfensohn, and the International Monetary Fund managing director, Horst Kohler, with an extensive list of demands.
Several called for the complete abolition of the two Washington-based lending agencies, which were founded just after World War II to finance the reconstruction of Europe and stabilize world currencies. They have recently been under heavy pressure to improve the economic performance of poor and middle-income nations that receive most of their loans.
On the streets, where protest organizers have vowed to stage major demonstrations beginning on Sunday, the biggest march today was by some 500 anarchists, many dressed in black with black masks.
The crowd briefly blocked a highway. There was also a skirmish between anarchists and neo-Nazi skinheads, who were staging a rival demonstration near Prague's main railway station. At least one person was injured before the police arrived.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anarchists paraded through downtown Prague yesterday in protest against the policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.; James D. Wolfensohn, left, president of the World Bank, and Jim Barnes, of Friends of the Earth, discussed the World Bank's support of renewable energy during a walk in the Prague Royal Gardens yesterday. (Photographs by Julie Denesha for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (59%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (56%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EURO (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



591 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO;
Gore Takes an Approach Both Risky and Calculated

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
They are bad. Really bad. Malevolent even. And not just bad. They are big. Big and bad, like those nightmarish, saw-toothed meanies that lurk beneath the bed.
They are Vice President Al Gore's bogeymen -- big oil, big drug companies, big health insurers, big polluters. For good measure, Mr. Gore still throws in big tobacco from time to time. They are out there, threatening America's prosperity. And like politicians before him, Mr. Gore hopes to ride the public's trepidation about them all the way to the White House. 
 America has a tradition of populist politics, and in most cases the strategy has worked best when the enemy has been given a face. For William Jennings Bryan it was the banks. For Theodore Roosevelt it was the railroads and other "malefactors of great wealth." William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt busted the trusts. John F. Kennedy took on U.S. Steel.
But it has been decades since a politician denounced such a broad array of corporate targets with such pointed language. For Mr. Gore, it is all part of the broader positioning of his campaign as "for the people," and the other side -- Gov. George W. Bush and the Republicans -- as "for the powerful."
"I have never hesitated," Mr. Gore said on Friday, "to take on big oil or the big pharmaceutical companies or the H.M.O.'s or whoever was operating in a way that was not in the best interest of the middle-class families of this country."
Like most campaign messages these days, Mr. Gore's assault is rooted in extensive polling and focus-group surveys that suggest deep public frustration with rising prices and, in the case of health maintenance organizations, confounding red tape. Populism has proven most effective, historians say, in times of economic inequality, and Mr. Gore's target audience includes those who feel they have not shared in the good times.
But Mr. Gore's tactic is not without risk. Another important component of his message is the taking of credit for the country's economic health, including the 22 million jobs created in the Clinton years. By setting his sights on central industries, Mr. Gore may create the perception that he is fighting the very businesses that have generated those jobs.
Then there is the risk of being branded a hypocrite. One major industry that Mr. Gore does not group with his litany of corporate offenders is big entertainment, which he condemns separately in speeches for marketing violence to children even as he solicits its executives for hefty campaign contributions.
Because it has been so long since any prominent politician tried Mr. Gore's approach, it is hard to predict how it will be received, said Alan Brinkley, a presidential historian at Columbia University.
"Gore is using it very carefully, making attacks against specific targets and not more broadly against concentrated economic power," Mr. Brinkley said. "I don't see how he could be perceived as antibusiness given the very centrist economic policy he's promoting and has been identified with over time."
But Jerry J. Jasinowski, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said Mr. Gore had convinced the business sector, particularly leaders of small companies, that he is against private enterprise.
"We know in an election that things are said and done that wouldn't happen in normal times," Mr. Jasinowski said. "But words mean something, and these words are irresponsible."
Clearly, Mr. Gore long ago discarded any instinct to soft-pedal his message. In speeches about oil pricing on Thursday and Friday, he pledged to "work toward the day when we are free forever of the dominance of big oil and foreign oil."
Because Mr. Bush and his running mate, Dick Cheney, both served as executives in the oil business, Mr. Gore said the Republican ticket was "of big oil, for big oil and by big oil."
When Mr. Gore turns his sights on managed care, he laments that doctors' decisions are being "overruled by some bean counter" who "doesn't have a right to play God." When the target is the prescription drug manufacturers, he describes them as having "so much power and so much wealth -- by all odds the most profitable industry in America."
That claim is true, according to a Fortune magazine survey that placed pharmaceutical profits in 1999 at 18.9 percent. The industry responds that it spends a hefty portion of profits on developing new drugs, though studies show that a larger share is devoted to marketing.
"While this pattern of attack may be good politics for the vice president," said Alan F. Holmer, president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, "it misleads the public about the industry that continues to develop important new medicines."
Oil industry officials and analysts said this week that they were distressed by Mr. Gore's offensive because, they maintain, domestic petroleum pricing is primarily a product of foreign supply. Profits are up this year, but the industry was battered last year by plummeting prices. Oil profit rates for the first half of this year were 6.8 percent, according to Business Week, compared with 7 percent for all United States industries.
"Mr. Gore is either extremely badly informed or he's being extremely disingenuous," said J. Robinson West, the chairman of Petroleum Finance Company, which provides strategic advice to oil companies.
Karl Rove, the chief strategist for the Bush campaign, said the primary effect of Mr. Gore's "screechy left-wing populism" was to stem the flow of liberal support to Ralph Nader and the Green Party. And he pointed out that Mr. Gore's running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, had received heavy campaign contributions from the insurance and pharmaceutical industries, and that Mr. Gore's family had profited from Occidental Petroleum mineral leases.
But Mark D. Fabiani, Mr. Gore's deputy campaign director, said the vice president had credibility because he fought against price-fixing in the oil and natural-gas industry in Congress and was an early supporter of generic drugs.
"In good times," he said, "you have economic power built up and sometimes it builds up to excess. Now it's time to make sure that elements of the economy that are blocking the prosperity of others, primarily families, is brought under control." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HISTORY (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



592 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
TUCKER, RALPH W.

 BODY:
TUCKER-Ralph W., 56. Died on Feb. 26, 2000, at Mt. Sinai Hospital of complications of multiple myeloma. A free-lance writer, director and producer of industrial films, he learned film-making at the Army Pictorial Center in Astoria after a year's tour of duty in Vietnam. He was born in Bradenton, Fla, graduated from Maryville College in Tennessee, and lived all over the U.S. and in Europe and Asia before settling in New York in 1967. Tucker worked in New York and the U.S. on hundreds of sponsored theatrical films, prizewinning corporate videos, multimedia shows & business theater. Abroad he worked for the Truk Red Cross in Chuuk, Micronesia, and for the Association Internationale des Etudiants en Sciences Economiques et Commerciales. Among his personal works in progress when he fell ill were a play based on Huckleberry Finn, a science-fiction novel and a photojournalism book about the great harbor explosion in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He had planned to begin a book called "Spine" about his adventures as a multiple-myeloma patient. The New York Women in Film and Television screenplay reading committee staged a reading, on February 28 at the Cherry Lane Theatre, of "The History of an Unremarkable Life." The play, based on the novel "Ships That Pass in the Night" by Beatrice Harraden, was written by Tucker and Heather M. Winters and directed by John Steber. Tucker is survived by his wife, Helen Anne Easterly, and son, Guy, both of New York; his parents, LTC (Ret.) Walter F. and Roberta P. Tucker of St. Petersburg; a sister, BethAnn of Atlanta; and two brothers, Kenneth of St. Petersburg and Robert of Anchorage. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (90%); VIET NAM (90%); ASIA (72%); EUROPE (71%); CANADA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: HALIFAX, NS, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); AIESEC INTERNATIONAL (83%); AIESEC INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIESEC INTERNATIONAL (83%); AIESEC INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (90%); VIET NAM (90%); ASIA (72%); EUROPE (71%); CANADA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (54%); HALIFAX, NS, CANADA (52%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); BLOOD DISORDERS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (68%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: TUCKER, RALPH W. TUCKER-RALPH W (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



593 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 3;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Poaching May Kill Fish That Lay the Golden Eggs

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: ASTRAKHAN, Russia

 BODY:
On a dusty finger of land in the sprawling delta where the Volga River drains into the Caspian Sea, Vera Visokogorskaya is a Mary Poppins figure in a white smock, hovering and fussing over 75,000 baby sturgeon she is raising in a rundown state hatchery.
On another finger of the Volga delta, a fisherman named Aleksei is knocking back shots of vodka at the table of his friend, Boris, describing their lives as poachers. Like tens of thousands of other fishermen in the hinterland of the delta, they slaughtered a mountain of sturgeon this spring under the cover of darkness to eat the meat and sell caviar ripped from the females to black marketeers. 
 These two residents of Russia's caviar-producing region represent the intensifying clash of interests among Russians and their newly independent neighbors: along the shores of the Caspian, the world's largest inland sea, competition for resources threatens extinction of the last great sturgeon population on earth. Just two centuries ago, sturgeon were abundant throughout the Northern Hemisphere.
Aleksei -- who would only give his first name -- admits that he is part of a problem that no one in Russia is doing much to solve. "I am not Greenpeace," he said with mock bravado. "My anxiety will not change the fate of this fish."
Ms. Visokogorskaya is proud to be a nurturer, part of the solution. But the destroyers are legion, and the damage they are inflicting may soon be irreversible.
After a century of supplying the world with caviar, which fetches as much as $2,000 a pound in Geneva, Paris and New York, the Caspian sturgeon population, 70 percent of the world's reserves, is being harvested at a rate that can be sustained for only a few more years, experts and law enforcement officials say.
Though Russia and Iran have been stocking the Caspian Sea with up to 100 million baby sturgeon a year since the 1960's, the fish population is plummeting. This spring's official sturgeon catch of 400 tons was the lowest in a century and represented a 60 percent drop from 1999, the State Fishing Committee said. Scientists estimate that the adult sturgeon population, which numbered 1.5 million in 1986, has fallen below 300,000. And the health of many fish is in decline.
Caviar production is expected to drop to 40 tons this year, down from 1,200 tons in 1985.
"No one wants to have caviar banned," said Uldry Thierry, the chief executive of the Geneva-based Caviar House, one of Europe's largest retailers, which processes 25 tons a year in a market estimated at 80 to 100 tons. (Americans consume 40 to 50 tons a year.) "But the Russian government has got to find an answer, and the only answer is stricter controls against poaching."
The illegal sturgeon catch is estimated at 5 to 10 times the official catch. Strict export licensing and DNA testing of caviar samples has led to some spectacular hauls of illegal shipments to the United States in the last year, but the black market has grown phenomenally over the last two decades.
Besides the depredations of poachers, up to a third of the female sturgeon are suffering from chemical poisoning severe enough to render them infertile, scientists report. And the proportion of female sturgeon reaching spawning grounds has also fallen, to just 20 or 30 percent.
"The situation is very serious," said John Sellar, the chief of enforcement for the secretariat of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, in Geneva. With caviar bars and restaurants multiplying in the West, Mr. Sellar suggested that "people are behaving in a very irresponsible manner."
In December, scientists from the convention that regulates trade in endangered species will meet in West Virginia to decide whether to declare the Caspian sturgeon so endangered as to warrant a total ban on trade until the species recovers.
To stop fishing would be an economic and political catastrophe feared by all the Caspian governments -- Russia, Iran, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan -- but it may be inevitable if the species is to survive.
The Soviet Union rigorously policed the fishing grounds of the Caspian, but also sowed the seeds for the current decline. Sixty years of dam building eliminated 70 to 80 percent of the sturgeons' spawning grounds along the Volga, where since prehistoric times belugas, the largest sturgeon, whose plump gray caviar is most prized, ranged 1,000 miles inland to spawn.
As Soviet planners diverted water supplies to artificial reservoirs, the level of the Caspian declined nearly 10 feet. The spread of agriculture and industrialization dealt another blow, as pesticide runoff killed thousands of fish.
The discovery of huge oil and gas reserves off Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan represents an added potential danger.
Given the general poverty, poaching sturgeon is simply a means to survive for countless thousands of families here, who send their men out in small boats at night to kill fish for the table and, with luck, sell a little caviar on the black market.
Seated at Boris's table in a rundown apartment on the outskirts of Astrakhan, Aleksei described their business.
Many of the 50,000 people in the area once worked at a paper mill, he said. "When it closed, these people had no other way to earn money or to eat, and so the river feeds them."
In wooden boats, the poachers lay submerged lines dangling hundreds of hooks to snag the migrating sturgeon.
"The night is what hides us," Aleksei said. "If you hear the sound of a motor boat, you hide among the bushes on the shore." The motorboats are usually the police, who regularly drag an anchor behind them to pull up as many poacher lines as they can. But the lines are quickly laid again.
"We keep our catch in the water on a rope and the rope is in my hand," Aleksei said. "If the police come to my side of the boat to inspect us, I just let it go. Few poachers are ever caught, and, when they are, they face a light fine and confiscation of their fish.
The damage from small-scale poachers is compounded by the organized poaching that occurs out at sea by criminal gangs with fast boats, satellite navigation systems and the protection of corrupt police or military officials.
But at Bios, a state hatchery and research center 25 miles southwest of Astrakhan, the director, Lidia M. Vassileva, is in charge of one of 13 fish farms that try to sustain the sturgeon population by releasing 60 million palm-sized fish into the Volga and the Caspian every year.
"Sturgeon are like a living relic, and the reason they are on the brink of extinction is that you have two natural resources that cannot coexist -- oil and fish," she said.
The state company for which she works has developed a modest business in selling fertilized caviar -- which is, after all, just eggs -- to fish farms in Russia, China, Europe and the United States, where the fish are raised for meat and sold to restaurants and food-processing industries.
More ambitiously, Bios is trying to raise sturgeon until they are sexually mature, a process that takes 10 to 20 years, and then harvest caviar without killing the females. The technique has been demonstrated at a handful of fish farms, but requires long investment before there is any return.
Ms. Vassileva's assistant, Ms. Visokogorskaya, each year supervises the fertilization of 20 million sturgeon minnows for release into the Volga, and helps raise 75,000 sturgeon.
Moving among their tanks like a matriarch, she snatched a six-pounder out of one tank. She looked with pride over what she calls her flock and said, "In Russia, we have an economic crisis, but in the world, they only want caviar."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A map yesterday with an article about a clash of interests over caviar production among Russia and its newly independent neighbors labeled the region just west of Iran and south of Turkey incorrectly. It is part of Iran, not of Syria.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vera Visokogorskaya holds one of the 75,000 sturgeon she is raising at the Bios hatchery and research center in Astrakhan, Russia. The once-abundant fish is facing extinction, largely because of poaching and pollution. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)
 
Map of Russia shows the location of Astrakhan: Many in Astrakhan have turned to sturgeon poaching to survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%); CASPIAN SEA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. FISHES (90%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RIVERS (78%); AQUACULTURE (77%); MARINE PRODUCTS GATHERING (77%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); RETAILERS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



594 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
As Season Ends, Some Managers Are in Danger of Losing Their Jobs

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Larry Dierker managed Houston to division championships in each of his first three seasons with the Astros. In this, his fourth season, the Astros have played badly, and Dierker is said in baseball circles to be in danger of losing his job.
Buck Showalter managed the Arizona Diamondbacks to a division championship in their second season, making them the most successful baseball expansion team in history. The Diamondbacks, however, have not only failed to repeat, but have also played too poorly to make the playoffs as the wild-card team, and Showalter is said to be in danger of losing his job. 
 Johnny Oates managed the Texas Rangers to division championships three of the past four seasons. This season, however, the Rangers are in last place, and rumors say Oates is in danger of losing his job.
As the regular season begins its final week, more than half a dozen managers, Dierker and Showalter among them, are perilously perched on the precipice of dismissal. Oates, however, is not teetering there. Tom Hicks, the Rangers' owner, said recently that Oates would continue as the manager.
Felipe Alou, the venerable manager of the Montreal Expos, is another whose status was rumored to be in question, but Jeffrey Loria, the team's managing partner, said that was news to him.
"I've never said that," Loria said. "I've never said I want to make a change. Felipe's the manager. He's under contract, an enormous contract. I've never entertained any other ideas other than saying we'll take a look at everything at the end of the season."
Loria added, "He's not in trouble."
Dusty Baker and Lou Piniella are not in trouble, either. In fact, they are managers in the enviable position of being free agents after the season. Their contracts expire, and they have not signed extensions.
San Francisco wants Baker to remain, and he most likely will stay. He has been wise, though, to see how far the Giants go in the postseason before signing. The farther they go, the higher his salary figures to go.
"Dusty has made it clear he prefers to wait until the end of the season to focus on his business issues," Jeff Moorad, Baker's adviser, said. "We're acutely aware of his attraction around the major leagues and I'm certain if he showed himself to be available that we'd have a number of teams interested. I'm not sure that's the intent. In fact, it's fair to say he's inclined to stay in San Francisco as long as the terms of a deal were fair and appropriate."
The only negative aspect of continuing the relationship was suggested by another club's executive. "I've heard rumblings that Dusty doesn't want to be with Barry Bonds," the executive said.
Piniella is not so certain to remain in Seattle, where he has managed for eight years. He has not said what he prefers, but the most popular speculation has him desiring to manage at home, meaning Tampa Bay. The Devil Rays, however, are not the contending team Piniella has become accustomed to managing.
"His focus is totally on winning the pennant and hopefully getting to the World Series," said Alan Nero, his agent. "We've all agreed not to think about it or talk about it now. Lou has incredible loyalty to the Seattle ownership and fans. He would like to hear what they have to say first and then decide what he's going to do."
Seattle's Pat Gillick sounded like a general manager who wanted to retain his manager.
"If you're grading guys on the type of season they've had," Gillick said, "Lou's had a great season, not only from the standpoint of handling players but running the games. He's had an all-star year. I've never seen him so much under control. He has mellowed and matured."
Part of the Piniella speculation involves Jimy Williams of Boston. Piniella, the scenario goes, would leave the Mariners, whose general manager, Gillick, has a good relationship from their Toronto days with Williams, who would ask out of the remaining year of his contract with the Red Sox or be fired because he and the Boston general manager, Dan Duquette, are less than friendly.
When the scenario was mentioned to Williams recently, he said he knew nothing about it. "I have a contract for next year," he said.
But the relationship between Williams and Duquette became more strained in recent days when Duquette defended Carl Everett, Boston's center fielder, after he arrived late for a game. "If I was the general manager, I would back the manager," Williams told reporters in Boston yesterday, "and if you can't, you probably need to get rid of me."
 In about every instance where a manager's position is precarious, the team owner or general manager has said the club will evaluate or address everything at the end of the season. That statement covers Dierker, Showalter, Gene Lamont of Pittsburgh, Terry Francona of Philadelphia, Larry Rothschild of Tampa Bay and Davey Johnson of Los Angeles.
Jim Bowden, the Cincinnati general manager, offered a variation on the theme when asked about Jack McKeon. "Jack's our manager, and I have no other comment," he said.
Baseball executives would consider it a major upset if McKeon, Francona, Rothschild, Johnson or Lamont survived. In Lamont's case, Kevin McClatchy, the owner, has reportedly already told him he will not remain in the Pirates' job.
"We'll address Geno's situation at the end of the season, which is not that far away," McClatchy said. "Any discussions between Gene and me are confidential."
Ed Wade, general manager of the last-place Phillies, said the club had "had high expectations coming off our offensive performance last year," adding: "Things have not developed the way we expected. We're hugely disappointed."
The situation in Los Angeles is interesting because the apparent desire of General Manager Kevin Malone to change managers is compounded by the possibility that Malone himself could be fired.
"Our situation is being evaluated at this time," Malone said. "There's been no decisions made. We're pleased with the way we've performed the last week or two. Unfortunately, we waited until this late date."
Gerry Hunsicker of Houston sounded like a general manager who wanted to keep his manager, but Dierker's future will be determined by the owner, Drayton McLane Jr.
"I think sometimes we can jump to conclusions before we know what the real issues are," McLane said. "We want to take everything into consideration. We'll make a decision very quickly, in the first week after the season."
Dierker's position could be undermined by reports that some of his players don't take him seriously and don't want to play for him.
"It's not any different from any clubhouse," Hunsicker said when asked about the reports. "I think it's the nature of the beast. These things surface when you lose."
Players do not apparently like Showalter in Arizona, even though, like Dierker, he managed them to a first-place finish. Jerry Colangelo, the Diamondbacks' managing partner, has said he will wait until the end of the season before making a decision, but the team's collapse the last five weeks can't help Showalter.
Even the elder statesman among managers is not certain of his status. Tom Kelly has managed the Minnesota Twins for 14 seasons, winning the World Series in 1987 and '91, but does not know if he will make it to 15.
"They haven't informed me if they want me to come back," said Kelly, who is in the last year of his contract and wants to stay with the Twins. "Three years ago, they asked me to stay and take on this undertaking. Now we're starting to see some light at the end of the tunnel and I feel like I'd like to do this some more. But we haven't heard anything. I'm hoping to hear something in the next few days, because I have some coaches I need to take care of. Whether we're staying or leaving, I'd like to get it resolved in the next few days or a week. If they don't want us back, fine; we'll get along. If they do, good; let's get going."
 
No In-Season Changes Yet
Barring an unexpected development, the season will end without any teams changing managers. It would be the first time since 1942 such a development occurred, and there were only 16 teams then.
Jim Bowden of Cincinnati attributed the novelty to baseball economics.
"I think a lot of it has to do with the economic disparity we have right now," he said. "The expectations for each manager are different from what they have been in the past. Small-market teams can't have the same expectations for those managers as you once did. Before, most of the teams had a chance to win, and expectations were greater for each manager. People are more realistic now."
Gerry Hunsicker of Houston said clubs might be viewing the job more rationally than before.
"Maybe they're realizing that firing managers doesn't change a whole lot of the results," he said. "It's amazing how managers become extremely smart when they have talent and extremely stupid when they don't have talent."
Doug Melvin, the Texas general manager, suggested that some clubs might not have acted because they could not come up with suitable replacements. "A lot of guys don't want to take jobs on an interim basis," Melvin said. "They want the job from Day 1 of spring training."
It is entirely possible that if one team had fired its manager sometime this season, others would have followed. Often in the past clubs wanted to make a change but did not want to be the first to do it. When another team fired its manager, those other teams then did likewise.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: How many managers will be blamed for their teams' disappointing seasons? Larry Dierker, left, of the Astros; Buck Showalter, center, of the Diamondbacks; and Johnny Oates, right, of the Rangers could pay the price. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (55%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (93%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (91%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (91%); MONTREAL EXPOS (55%); MONTREAL EXPOS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (93%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (91%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (91%); MONTREAL EXPOS (55%); MONTREAL EXPOS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (55%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LAYOFFS (58%); 

PERSON: LOU PINIELLA (90%); DUSTY BAKER (74%); LARRY DIERKER (71%); BUCK SHOWALTER (66%); JOHNNY OATES (64%); DAN DUQUETTE (59%); PAT GILLICK (59%); JEFFREY LORIA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000



595 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 5;Column 4;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
A Grunt as President? History Salutes a Few Good Men

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
MUCH has been made in the presidential campaign about Vice President Al Gore's stint with the Army in Vietnam, but one striking fact has gone largely unnoted: If elected, Mr. Gore would be the first president in a century to have served as an enlisted man and one of only four ever.
The presidency, of course, has been replete with men who served their country in uniform -- 27 of the 42 presidents -- but the overwhelming majority did so in the officer corps. 
 There have been 12 generals (Washington, Jackson, Harrison, Taylor, Pierce, Andrew Johnson, Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Arthur, Harrison and Eisenhower), though no admirals. And there has been a colonel (Theodore Roosevelt), a commander (Lyndon B. Johnson) and a lieutenant commander (Ford), a major (Truman), a captain (Reagan) and three lieutenants (Kennedy, Nixon and Bush).
But not since William McKinley, who was president from 1897 until his assassination in 1901, has there been a president who served in the humbler ranks.
McKinley enlisted as a private in the 23rd Regiment of the Ohio Volunteer Infantry during the Civil War. (He went on to receive a battlefield promotion to lieutenant after the Battle of Antietam from a colonel who went on to become a general and a president, Rutherford B. Hayes.)
In addition to McKinley, only two other presidents had served in the enlisted ranks, according to several presidential reference books.
James Buchanan served in a company of dragoons -- essentially cavalrymen -- in the defense of Baltimore during the War of 1812. And Abraham Lincoln volunteered as a private when the
Illinois militia mobilized to fight in the Black Hawk Wars in 1832. His company promptly elected him captain, but when that unit stood down, he reenlisted as a private.
As for Mr. Gore, in August 1969, he walked into a draft center in Newark, N.J. and enlisted as a private. And a private he remained through basic training at Fort Dix, a tour at Fort Rucker, and five months as an Army journalist in Vietnam. (He was granted an early discharge to attend divinity school.)
Mr. Gore, of course, was no ordinary buck private. His father was a senator, and G.I.'s
like him were on what one Army general and Vietnam veteran called "a watch list," a sort of unwritten order to keep them out of trouble.
Charles C. Moskos, a sociologist at Northwestern University who has long studied the military, said that the dearth of enlistees among the presidents reflected the social and economic backgrounds of the nation's politicians and officers, who with few exceptions were of the educated elite.
"The typical military experience is to be an enlisted man," he said. "It has not been shared by our presidents."
Mr. Gore's campaign has made the most of his military record, which starkly contrasts to the lack of service by President Clinton, but it remains to be seen how much it will help him on Election Day.
His opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, scores higher in the polls on military matters, and in recent years people in uniform, particularly in the officer corps, have tilted increasingly toward the Republican Party. The tradition in which the majority usually considered themselves independent is weakening, a trend that has raised concerns about the increasing politicization of the military.
A survey last year of up and coming officers found that 64 percent identified themselves as Republicans, compared to only 8 percent who were Democrats.
As if to underscore the point, an array of veterans, including senior officers who served under Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, last week endorsed Mr. Bush, who served as a fighter pilot in the Texas National Guard during the Vietnam War and was, for the record, a lieutenant.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last week about the military service of United States presidents included an incomplete list of those who served as officers. James Monroe was a lieutenant colonel under George Washington, John Tyler a captain in the Virginia militia, and Jimmy Carter a lieutenant in the Navy. Millard Fillmore served as a major in the New York Home Guard during the Civil War, but only after he left the presidency.
The article also misstated the number of American presidents. Because Grover Cleveland's two terms were nonconsecutive, there have been 42 presidencies, but only 41 presidents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore, during his tour of duty as an Army private in Vietnam. (Courtesy Al Gore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (88%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (64%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000



596 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: China's Threat to Labor

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It is a pity that the discussion over legislation on trade with China (front page, Sept. 20) does not distinguish between the liberalization of our trade with China and China's easing of restrictions on our investment there. The two have very different consequences.
Increasing trade is all to the good and allows both countries to specialize in what they do best. Increasing the outflow of American capital, however, can lower productivity here and cost workers their jobs. This explains the opposition to the bill by labor unions. 
 Increased investment abroad is also responsible for the mixed results of the North American Free Trade Agreement alluded to in your article. Opening up China to a flood of American investment is a daunting thought.
 
PEGGY B. MUSGRAVE
Santa Cruz, Calif., Sept. 20, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: MUSGRAVE, PEGGY B

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000



597 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Credit Offerings Planned During the Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a two-year note being auctioned on Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 5.97 percent, and the rate on the six-month issue was 5.95 percent.
In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.03 percent.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TAXABLE
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Greenpoint Bank, $200 million of 10-year subordinated debt, Baa3/BBB-/---. Chase Securities and Lehman Brothers.
M & T Bank, $350 million of subordinated notes due in 2010, A3/BBB+/---. Lehman Brothers and Salomon Smith Barney.
UBS Preferred Funding Trust I, $1.25 billion of noncumulative perpetual step-up preferred securities, Aa2/AA-/---. UBS Warburg.
 Source: MCM CorporateWatch
 Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
TAX EXEMPT
MONDAY
Shelby County, Tenn., $150 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Florida, $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Guilford County, N.C., $84.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Pinellas County, Fla., $158.1 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Anchorage Schools, $77.9 million of general obligation bonds. Prudential Securities.
Arizona Transportation Department, $115 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Broomfield, Colo., $65.8 million of debt securities. Dain Rauscher Inc.
Louisiana Housing Finance Authority, $65 million of debt securities. George K. Baum & Co.
Miami-Dade County School District, $108 million of debt securities. PaineWebber Inc.
Puerto Rico Infrastructure Finance Authority, $1.03 billion of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (71%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (65%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (65%); PAINEWEBBER INC (64%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); GREENPOINT BANK (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (71%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000



598 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
Latin America is a difficult -- but attractive -- region for e-marketplaces that are trying to enlist small businesses.

BYLINE: By Jennifer L. Rich 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
AT the recent Florida Trade Expo in the American Chamber of Commerce here, a middle-aged man in a crumpled business suit stepped up to a lectern that held a laptop computer and, with two fingers, began to tap out responses to the onscreen questionnaire. Name. Company. Number of employees.
As he filled in the form, the staff from 1hemisphere.com -- a Miami-based Internet company specializing in hemispheric trade -- explained the benefits of his free membership: free e-mail; Web service for his company's site; and a free virtual storefront to transact business. 
 With his registration complete, the small-business man, whose Brazilian company exports technological components to Europe, shrugged. "We'll see what it is going to do for me," he said.
Employees from 1hemisphere.com, along with one of its competitors, latintrade.com, had come from Florida to Brazil to participate in the trade show and try to convince the local small and midsize businesses that a revolution is afoot. Operators of these so-called e-marketplaces -- Internet portals through which companies do business with one another -- are betting on the democratizing power of the Internet to break down the traditional information and trade barriers that confine most small companies in Latin America to doing business within 30 miles of home.
The benefits of e-marketplaces for Latin America are potentially enormous. With help from the Internet, sellers could reach a significantly wider base of clients, raising profits for 10 million small companies that still serve as the main employers and drivers of growth throughout the region.
With greater access to information, buyers, in turn, might get a better price in a more globalized market, increasing competitiveness all around. And everyone could save money, compared with the costs of closing the same deals in a world based on faxes and phone calls.
But revolutions don't happen in a day. E-marketplaces are still struggling to work out the kinks that so far have impeded Latin America's small businesses from reaping the benefits of Internet-based trade. The payoff, if it comes at all, may not happen for years.
But the obstacles are not deterring Internet companies from racing to stake a claim in the market for business-to-business e-commerce in Latin America -- a market that is forecast to reach $5.5 billion a year by 2003, according to figures published in a Morgan Stanley Dean Witter report in February.
"We have just had the big bang," said Anna Giraldo Kerr, research manager for IDC Latin America, an Internet consulting firm. "Since we are still going through the whole evolutionary period right now, B to B still has a grace period," Ms. Kerr said, using industry shorthand for business to business. "Once that settles, though, there is definitely going to be a shakeout."
Some marketplaces, like adquira.com by the Spanish giant Telefonica and artikos .com by Commerce One of the United States, may have the resources to survive a shakeout. Other independent start-ups like 1hemisphere.com may be under more pressure to use revenues to pay as they go.
For the most part, hemispheric portals are following the lead of various e-marketplaces already in operation in the United States. The owner of a zipper company in Rio de Janeiro, for example, can post his products on a bulletin board on the 1hemisphere.com Web site. While surfing the site, a jeans maker in Lima, Peru, finds that the Rio zippers are cheaper than those available locally, clicks over to the zipper maker's Web site via 1hemisphere.com and places an order. From the 1hemisphere.com site, the zipper maker lines up a shipping company, calculates the price of import duties, converts the whole thing into Peruvian currency and e-mails a bill to the jeans maker.
Meanwhile, 1hemisphere.com earns a commission on the completed deal.
"Over the last two years, we have seen that small businesses in Latin America are finding out that they get a better return on their money if they export, especially if they send their products into the North American market," said Jose Matto, president and chief executive of 1hemisphere.com. "Part of what we are doing is just match-making."
But the challenges are huge, starting with the typical mind-set of the very professionals who are expected to use the service -- business executives who are battle-scarred by the region's history of economic troubles, like the sky-high inflation that once plagued Brazil.
"During hyperinflation, you had to have an accounting system that was just the basics because if you forgot to actualize a price monthly or biweekly, you could lose 20 percent," said Jose Augusto Correa, director of the technology department at the Federation of Industries of the Sao Paulo state. By comparison, he said, the 2 or 3 percent in cost savings from adopting new technology had hardly seemed worth the effort.
Mr. Correa said that greater economic stability had only recently encouraged companies to consider technical innovations. That may help explain why, among the 10 million or so small and midsize businesses in Latin America, only about a million have any kind of Internet connection.
While substandard networks and high costs can partly be blamed for the delay to adopt new information technology, much of the reticence may also be psychological. The Internet may still be seen as too cold and anonymous in a region where many people are more comfortable sealing deals with a handshake and a thump on the back.
To overcome such resistance, some portals are signing up large corporations to serve as anchor buyers. The premise is that small companies will be eager for the opportunity to land a big contract with a big customer they might not otherwise have access to. For example, Asista.com, another of the Miami crop of e-marketplaces, recently signed a letter of intent with the Mexican conglomerate Axa S.A. de C.V. to buy all its office supplies and equipment through the site.
"It is not going to start from the small guys getting religion all of a sudden," John Mein, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Sao Paulo, said of the e-marketplace movement. "It is going to push through the economy from the top down. For the small companies to compete, they are going to have to step up their investments in technology."
But even if more small Latin American companies do venture online, they will still face other obstacles to cross-border commerce. Shipping companies are few. Export financing is hard to come by. Legal issues can be confusing. And many costs remain hidden within stacks of bureaucratic paperwork. Through strategic agreements with banks and logistics companies, the region's e-marketplaces are just now starting to find ways to confront these problems.
"All these models have to be proven, and they require the backing of banks and other institutions to prove that they are going to be done in the proper way," said Jaime Vargas, chief executive of Mercantil.com. "It will require some time."
Time, of course, takes money. Which is why the region's e-marketplace players will need to fine tune their approaches and marshal their resources, if they hope to be still in business when the revolution finally catches up with them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000



599 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
Trademarks gain attention as passports to the Internet and for a critical vote ahead in Congress.

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
IN the world of intellectual property, the business of trademarks exists in the shadow of patents. Patent owners are inventors, while trademark owners are simply people who control brand names, slogans and logos.
Trademark experts -- lawyers, lobbyists and others -- think few people understand that establishing and protecting brand names is a critical part of the economic success of many patented devices or systems, and that trademarks are increasingly important to companies competing in the global, digital marketplace. 
 Some big trademark owners are particularly worried that Congress does not grasp the importance of brands. While Congress recently extended the life span of patents to conform with standards in Europe and Japan, it has not acted to adopt similar changes to trademark law contained in a 1989 international agreement known among specialists as the Madrid protocol.
That agreement which updates an international trademark treaty negotiated in 1891, allows anyone to apply for or to renew a trademark anywhere in the world by submitting one form in one country. The amendment took effect in many nations in 1995, but not in the United States because of a dispute whether the European Union should have a vote as well as each of its 15 member nations.
Last week, a phalanx of officials from the International Trademark Association went to Capitol Hill to try to persuade Congress to adopt the trademark agreement. The United States Patent and Trademark Office supports it, as does the Clinton administration. The dispute over voting rights is resolved. The trademark association officials said there was no opposition in Congress to the Madrid protocol, but they still were not sure the vote would occur. Evidently, trademark law is not a front-burner issue.
So they took to the hallways of Congress, seeking to ensure that their bill was not lost in a last-minute flurry of voting on sexier legislation. Indeed, the vote is now scheduled this week.
"We need to strike while the iron is hot and make sure it moves before the end of this session," said Michael Heltzer, the trademark association's government relations manager, just before the officials left for Capitol Hill.
The International Trademark Association was established in 1878 as the United States Trademark Association and changed its name 10 years ago to reflect its global membership. Lately, the issues that most concern trademark owners -- such as the counterfeiting of designer handbags, or determining the rights to Internet domain names -- have become increasingly international. For this reason, inducing the United States to join the 48 countries already signed onto the Madrid protocol is the group's top priority.
"Now we'll have a centralized way to submit one application, pay one fee in one currency and get quicker action," said Kimbley Muller, the trademark association's president and senior counsel for intellectual property at Shell Oil. He said the new regulations are more important for midsize and small businesses than for companies like Shell.
"If I get a trademark approved and then I change my address, I only have to send one letter instead of 180 letters around the world," he continued. "Big companies like Shell can afford those administration costs, but for a small company, that could be a life-or-death difference in their worldwide business."
If the bill passes, the trademark association would be able to focus more attention on counterfeiting and domain-name disputes, issues important to some of its largest members. Both affect brands that are worth hundreds of millions of dollars to their owners.
"For Warner Brothers, first and foremost, the concern is for the cartoon characters we protect around the world through trademark and copyright," said Nils Montan, a vice president and senior counsel for intellectual property of the studio. "We have thousands and thousands of registrations, from Bugs Bunny to Fred Flintstone and now to Harry Potter. We spend a lot of time, effort and money in the registration process around the world."
Secure trademarks are increasingly important because they are becoming the key to obtaining easily recognizable Internet addresses. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers in December began arbitrating disputes over the ownership of Internet addresses based on trademarked brands. About 1,000 cases have been heard, and 75 percent have been won by trademark owners.
Controlling a brand name is "more important when you go into cyberspace because there's no salesperson there, nobody to reassure you," Mr. Muller said. "All you have is the name."
If the United States adopts the new standards, the next goal will be to sign up as many smaller countries as possible, said Alan Drewsen, the trademark group's executive director.
"In many jurisdictions, they're just beginning to appreciate the value of intellectual property," he said. "We have to educate officials in those countries to understand how it affects their own economic development, both for local businesses and for their attractiveness to foreign investment."
If the trademark association was wooing Congress in hopes of winning a vote on the Madrid protocol, it may soon be back to battling over a perennial issue -- funds for the Patent and Trademark Office. Congress has taken a chunk of the agency's income every year for the last several years, leaving it with a budget deficit.
"They don't have enough trademark examiners, the examiners are not getting training, then you have something like the Madrid protocol which is not in the budget, so they have to divert funds," Mr. Drewsen said. "So we've made this a priority till it gets straightened out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bugs Bunny as a marine sergeant during World War II, at a time when lawyers and lobbyists seemed less concerned about intellectual property. (The Glad Trust Collection)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE SHELL OIL CO (50%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (82%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (82%); INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSOCIATION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (82%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (82%); INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSOCIATION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; TREATIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TRADEMARK LAW (98%); PATENTS (94%); TRADEMARKS (94%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BRANDING (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (88%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (60%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); WORLD WAR II (59%); 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000



600 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Hideo Sasaki, 80, Influential Landscape Architect, Dies

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER 

 BODY:
Hideo Sasaki, an internationally renowned landscape architect who was as admired for his teaching and critical abilities as for his multidisciplinary approach to design, died on Aug. 30 at a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80 and lived in nearby Lafayette, Calif.
Mr. Sasaki founded Sasaki Associates, in the Boston suburb of Watertown, in 1953 while teaching at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, where he was chairman of the landscape architecture department from 1958 to 1968. He believed in throwing his students right into the design problems of the real world, where they worked alongside civil engineers, urban planners and contemporary giants like the architect Eero Saarinen and the sculptor and landscape designer Isamu Noguchi. 
 "A lot of us were working as many hours in his office as school," said Peter Walker, who joined the firm right after earning his degree in landscape architecture from Harvard.
"He changed this field, he reinvented it," added Mr. Walker, who now practices in San Francisco. "It wasn't just loosey-goosey. He believed in theory, and you had to defend your position."
In the boom years after World War II, Mr. Sasaki's team built some of America's first corporate parks, as companies like Upjohn and John Deere moved their headquarters from city to country. As whole neighborhoods were demolished in the urban renewal fever of the 1960's -- a movement much criticized now for erasing cultural history -- Mr. Sasaki's designers produced Copley Square in Boston, Constitution Plaza in Hartford and Washington Square Village in Manhattan. The designs played with earth shapes, using hard materials, and juxtaposed what Mr. Sasaki called biomorphic shapes against geometric ones, celebrating yet set apart from the modern buildings they framed.
The firm also designed college campuses that fit the geology of their sites, mounding the land around Foothill College in Los Altos, Calif., to echo the foothills for which it is named and expanding the campus of the University of Colorado with bold modern architecture that blended with the smaller Italianate buildings of the school's early days. And the firm designed the master plan for a brand new campus for the State University of New York at Buffalo.
"As a planner he understood demographics; he knew colleges were going to grow and that people would be moving out of the city," said Gary Hildebrand, an associate professor of landscape architecture at Harvard. "And he organized his firm to match the corporate culture. They had the ability to organize, to develop ideas as research, to implement efficiently with accountability."
New Yorkers have spent many an hour in Mr. Sasaki's smaller, more intimate spaces, like Greenacre Park, on 51st Street, between Second and Third Avenues, where a stream tumbles over rocks to meet a waterfall among woodland plantings and magnolia trees; and the International Paper Plaza, where a grove of redwoods, weeping cherries and magnolias bring a breeze and welcome shade to nature-starved Midtown workers.
Such versatility came not from one man, but from the many minds Mr. Sasaki nurtured and encouraged to design collaboratively, building models in the parking lot, going back to the drawing board as the master critic made some gentle but astute suggestion.
"Hideo almost never did any of the design work himself," said Prof. Charles Harris, who has taught at Harvard for 42 years. "He was a master teacher and design critic. He was able to inspire people to pursue ideas and explore things without drawing a line."
Professor Harris first studied with Mr. Sasaki as an undergraduate at the University of Illinois, where he and other students fell in love with his international perspective.
"He was calling for the need for more contemporary design and collaboration at a time when landscape architecture was still caught up in the Beaux-Arts," Professor Harris said. "He didn't subscribe to any particular design aesthetic. He wanted people to understand the human needs and natural forces that were working on the landscape."
In the 1950's Mr. Walker was just a greenhorn when Mr. Sasaki named him principal landscape architect for the 100-acre Upjohn headquarters just outside Kalamazoo, Mich., when the company moved from town to a farmer's field. The design, with its courtyards and terraces, groves of trees and artificial lakes -- which provided water to cool the buildings -- was built in collaboration with the architects Bruce Graham, Noguchi and Gordon Bunshaft. While other factories in the country were surrounded by parking lots, this one stood in a giant garden.
"That's why they were called villas," Mr. Walker said of these new corporate Versailles.
When Stuart Dawson was still a student at Harvard in the 1950's, he was meeting with Eero Saarinen, the architect for the John Deere headquarters, which was moving from downtown Moline, Ill., to a ravine on the edge of town overlooking miles of cropland.
"Hid was back teaching at Harvard," Mr. Dawson recalled. "You'd come back and go over everything with him, and he'd say, 'That's good, maybe you should try that.' Basically, he let us hang ourselves, but I guess he figured we wouldn't."
Mr. Sasaki was honored by Harvard last year at the department of landscape architecture's 100th anniversary celebration, which featured a symposium on his work. The university awarded him the Centennial Medal, honoring extraordinary achievement in landscape architecture.
Though a longtime resident of Massachusetts, he was born on Nov. 25, 1919, in the San Joaquin Valley town of Reedley, Calif. He grew up on his parents' truck farm and worked in the beet fields in Arizona when he was relocated to a World War II internment camp there for Japanese-Americans. He eventually made his way to Chicago, where he discovered landscape architecture at the University of Illinois, and later earned his master's degree in landscape architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design.
He was appointed to the United States Commission of Fine Arts by President John F. Kennedy in 1961 and again by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965.
He was the first recipient of the American Society of Landscape Architects' medal in 1971, and in 1973 he received the Allied Professions Medal from the American Institute of Architects.
Mr. Sasaki is survived by his wife, Kisa, and two daughters, Rin and Ann, all of Northern California.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hideo Sasaki; Greenacre Park on 51st Street in Manhattan is among the jewels designed by Hideo Sasaki that enliven New York and other cities. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); SCULPTURE (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); HISTORY (70%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: SASAKI, HIDEO; RAVER, ANNE ISAMU NOGUCHI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

 
