

401 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER AIRLINE FOOD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Hungry at 30,000 Feet? Pay Up

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
THE announcement from US Airways in June that it was going to start charging coach passengers $2 for soft drinks and bottled water -- water! -- on all its domestic flights, as well as $1 for coffee or tea, is only the latest sign that when it comes to flying these days, there increasingly is no such thing as a free lunch. 
 The other major carriers have yet to follow US Airways' lead -- though it may just be a matter of time. But some airlines are finding creative ways to up the ante, by adding new nonalcoholic beverages to their offerings, like Monster Energy drinks and Vitaminwater, and charging for them. Meanwhile, all domestic airlines but Continental have replaced free meals in coach on flights in the United States with at least some food sales. 
 Buying your own food or drinks at the airport is one alternative to being held economic hostage by the airlines, but who has time to wait in line for water when you're late for your connecting flight? You can also pack a lunch at home -- but just make sure your salad dressing is in a three-ounce container, inside a one-quart, zip-top plastic bag to get through security.
 So what exactly do you get these days? What follows is a sampling of the current food and drink policies for flights within the United States, and what you can expect to shell out for a little sustenance. (The offerings are slightly better on international flights, on which most foreign carriers continue to offer free alcoholic drinks, meals and snacks. But most United States carriers do not give out alcoholic drinks on trans-Atlantic routes.) 
 American
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; beer, wine and cocktails are $6. 
 Snacks: Nuts, cookies or cheese and crackers on flights of two hours or more are $3 or $4; chips are offered after 10 a.m. for $3. 
 Meals: Light meals -- like a turkey bagel sandwich, Italian wrap or turkey-and-cheese ciabatta sandwich -- are available for $6 on flights of three hours or longer. Boar's Head sandwiches with chips are $10 on flights to and from Hawaii and on transcontinental flights. 
 Mealtimes: No specific times.
 Continental
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; for beer, wine and cocktails, $5. 
 Snacks: Free peanuts or pretzels, after 10 a.m., on one-to-two-hour flights. 
 Meals: Free on flights of two hours or more, including a muffin for breakfast, turkey sandwich with carrot sticks or chips and candy for lunch, or a meatloaf sandwich, a salad and sweets for dinner. 
 Mealtimes: Breakfast, 7 to 9 a.m.; lunch, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.; dinner, 5 to 7 p.m. 
 Delta
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; $3 for Vitaminwater; $7 for alcoholic beverages, including margaritas and pomegranate martinis.
 Snacks: Free peanuts, cookies or peanut butter crackers. Chocolate bars, potato chips and other snacks are available for $2 or $3 on flights of an hour and a half to two hours. 
 Meals: From $4 on flights of more than two hours, including a strawberry cream cheese crepe ($4), mushroom pea orzo ($8), and grilled shrimp Caesar salad ($10).
 Mealtimes: 5 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
 JetBlue
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water and Dunkin' Donuts coffee and tea; $3 for Vitaminwater; $5 for beer, wine and cocktails.
 Snacks: Free Terra Blues chips, Frito-Lay Munchies, cookies, cashews, biscotti or animal crackers. 
 Meals: None.
 Northwest 
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; $5 for alcoholic beverages. 
 Snacks: Pringles, M & M's, Twizzlers or trail mix are $3; snack boxes with crackers, cheese, cookies, trail mix and either beef sausage, chicken salad or tuna are $5. Fruit and cheese or vegetables with ranch dip, $7.
 Meals: $10 for a breakfast sandwich and fruit salad with a breakfast cookie, or for a deli meat sandwich and salad with a chocolate bar. 
 Mealtimes: Meals are available only on ''select flights'' like those from its hubs to Alaska, Hawaii, the Caribbean and Mexico. Fresh snacks are offered only on such flights as well. 
 Southwest
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; $3 for Lo-Carb Monster Energy; $4 for beer, wine and cocktails. 
 Snacks: Free peanuts or pretzels on flights about two hours long. Honey Maid Snack Bars and Cheese Nips on flights three hours or longer; Oreos, Wheat Thins or Ritz Real Cheese crackers on the longest flights.
 Meals: None.
 Spirit 
 Drinks: $2 for water, coffee or tea; $3 for soda or juice; $5 for alcohol. 
 Snacks: $2 to $4 for Pringles, animal crackers, M & M's, and other snacks.
 Meals: None.
 United
 Drinks: Free soda, juice, water, coffee and tea; $6 for beer, wine and cocktails. 
 Snacks: $5 for snack boxes with bagel chips, vegetable cheese spread, granola, diced pears, cinnamon twist pastry, toffee and mints, or other assortments. 
 Meals: $7 for salads and sandwiches like a smoked turkey chipotle wrap or a Santa Fe chicken salad. 
 Mealtimes: Breakfast is available on flights departing before 10 a.m. Lunch and dinner, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
 US Airways
 Drinks: Coffee and tea, $1; bottled water, juices, and soda, $2; beer, wine and cocktails, $7. 
 Snacks: $5 for boxes of chicken salad, crackers, trail mix, a fruit bar and cookies on flights over two and a half hours. 
 Meals: From $7 on select flights over three and a half hours, including a turkey croissant and yogurt, chef salad or chicken Caesar sandwich.
 Mealtimes: From 5 a.m. to 8 p.m. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); SNACK FOODS (86%); AIRPORTS (78%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); ENERGY DRINKS (78%); AIR SERVICE (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



402 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Tax Cuts and the Rich

 BODY:
Tax Cuts and the Rich
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Familiar Tax Tune, but It's Not Mine'' (Everybody's Business, Aug. 10), in which Ben Stein says that tax cuts for wealthy Americans fail to do what they are supposed to do: 
 Bravo to Mr. Stein. Maybe we can reach a consensus on tax policy when common sense begins to trump ideology. Supply-side economics has failed in so many ways, but it especially has weakened America's finances by putting us at the mercy of foreign investors (and their governments). It has shown that tax policies that favor the rich do not create many jobs for American workers. Harlan Green Santa Barbara, Calif., Aug. 10
 To the Editor:
 While I disagree with Ben Stein's view that we need a military buildup, how refreshing to find a conservative who contends that it's necessary to raise his taxes and those of all upper-income Americans. In fact, I'll go Mr. Stein one better. He says he doesn't care for paying taxes, but I like it. It makes me feel ''squared up with the U.S.A.,'' to quote an Irving Berlin song from 1942, ''I Paid My Income Tax Today.'' Felicia Nimue Ackerman Providence, R.I., Aug. 11
 The writer is a professor of philosophy at Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WRITERS (73%); JOB CREATION (69%); PHILOSOPHY (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (66%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



403 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; THE FACE; Pg. 170

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Nasal Passage

BYLINE: BY CHANDLER BURR

 BODY:
We departed for China not, technically, from Kennedy airport but from the New York car service, a fact I mention for the smell. There is no experience more redolent and usually more odoriferous than a New York car service. Like celebrities with licensing contracts, each Lincoln has its own peculiar odor. I have shut the door and inhaled leather with notes of cigar plus window cleaner. I have smelled decaying flora, fake pine and armpits. When I left for J.F.K., the car smelled of kimchi and dry-cleaning. 
 ''Which airline?''
 ''Korean.'' 
 ''Ah. You're going to Korea?''
 ''No, China. Shanghai.''
 ''Why Shanghai?''
 ''I'm going to a party.''
 The party was being given by Ferragamo in part to introduce a new perfume called Tuscan Soul. This fact intrigued me. No: baffled me. In 1984, when I was 20, I spent a semester at a Chinese university. In my memory, China outdid any New York car service. The only perfume I imagined there was one no one would ever voluntarily bottle.
 J.F.K., on the other hand, smelled the same as always: floor cleaner, jet fuel and cigarettes. Korean Air Flight 82 smelled, surprisingly, like little at all. I think I'm becoming anosmic to airplane smell. It used to mesmerize me. The smell of flight! Now it's background radiation, undifferentiated. I noticed they even managed to rein in the smell of Korean food. Now, that's a trick.
 We landed in Shanghai at 8:10 p.m. in the dark. As we taxied, I got ready for the transition. Everyone knows, though most people don't think about it, that travel consists of a strange kind of olfactory gate: there is a very precise point, where you pass from the plane's smell, the international sterile zone, to your destination's smell. This is the moment your brain, not just your body, actually arrives. You enter Mumbai, and you smell a humid, gaseous thickness; San Francisco, a thin, dry astringency; Tokyo, plastic and sour cherries. When our plane arrived at the terminal, I stepped into China, and what did I recognize? Nothing.
 The economic status of a country is at least as important to its scent as, say, its geography. Miami, which has a hot, humid, tropical climate, smells of suntan lotion, air-conditioning and ocean water. Manila, which has a similar climate, smells of rotting building materials, decaying fruit, cheap diesel fuel and dirty palm oil. China's olfactory fingerprint was once a classic third-world odor: petroleum exhaust + sewage + cooking smells + bad dental care + unscented laundry detergents. 
 The I.M.F. says that in 1984, when I lived in China, the country had a per capita G.D.P. of about $296. In 2007, the year before I returned, it was $2,461. Walking the streets of Shanghai, it quickly became apparent that New York now smells worse. Sure, the air was polluted, but no more than L.A.'s. The new skyscrapers don't smell; the people don't smell. More to the point, they looked better than most Americans. I walked from my hotel to where Ferragamo was erecting a gigantic tent along the Huangpu River. And the river didn't smell. Maybe China was ready for its perfume moment.
 Luciano Bertinelli thinks so. Bertinelli is the managing director of Ferragamo Parfums. Yes, he acknowledged, the Chinese have no tradition of wearing perfume. But the party wasn't really about that. ''For us, Shanghai is the center of the world,'' he said. ''I'll be very honest: to do an international launch in London or even New York doesn't have the same glamour or impact, both in sales and in media.'' Ferragamo Parfums has been in China since 2002, and its sales are 5 percent of the company's wholesale perfume business of about $97 million. Bertinelli hopes to double that in three years.
 But it won't be easy, according to Ralf Ritter, a Swiss scent expert living in China, with whom I had lunch at a crowded local restaurant. In a study of young men in Shanghai and Beijing, Ritter said, handing me some insanely spicy chicken, 27 percent use fine fragrance. ''That's huge!'' I said.
 He grinned. Then he added that in the countryside, he thinks it's probably 0 percent. And there's a lot of countryside. Ritter says that the Chinese conceive of fragrance as a gift, not something you'd buy for yourself. ''I would be surprised if even 50 percent of the perfume bought in China was actually used.''
 I went into a department store. It was spotless and beautiful. All the major brands were there: Chanel, Dior, Lauder. I asked a saleswoman if I could try one. She seemed slightly surprised. The few people there watched me smell the blotter. Interesting! They walked around in bunches, hands clasped behind their backs as if afraid they might brush against the glass counters on which the bottles sat, untouched, in perfect alignment. Replace the perfume with Monets, and you have Chinese tourists at the Met. 
 But Bertinelli was not daunted. He had hired the legendary Pierre Bourdon to come up with a scent that was the essence of Tuscany. Bourdon's olfactory sketches began with magnolia, to which he added the scent of figs, mated to an absolute of mate (a smoky Latin American tea) and lentisk (a plant that grows in Tuscany and gives off a lovely bitter green scent). He mixed in a bit of basil, the scent of the limonaia -- the Tuscan greenhouse with its huge pots of lemon trees -- lemon from Sicily, bergamot from Calabria and the scent of olive flowers. This is what I doused myself with on the night of the Ferragamo party. 
 All 1,200 guests had crowded into the giant tent along with the Ferragamo family. We sat beside a long runway and watched a parade of 6-foot models. This was followed by a killer party, with the Champagne pumping as fast as the disco fog encircling Jennifer Jason Leigh's ankles. Slightly baffled young waiters dodged the elbows of portly Italian businessmen, and at 11:30 p.m. four Asian go-go dancers began to thrash energetically to a remix of Donna Summer's ''I Feel Love.'' One of the Chinese models asked why I was there, and I said I had come to smell the new Ferragamo perfume. Oh! Could she smell it? I held up my left arm, and she leaned in. ''Lemon,'' she said. ''Fresh. Clean.''
 ''You like it?''
 ''I like it!''
 ''Do you wear perfume?''
 ''No.'' But maybe she would wear this one.
 Ask any of the Ferragamo people why they believed an Italian perfume would sell in China, and they might not be able to say. I think it has to do with a culture in transition. When I arrive back in New York after a long flight and haul open the door of the Lincoln Town Car, I love the smell of fake geranium because it means I'm home. For China, getting richer means having more options, but it also means that the smell of the old temples, the dust in the unpaved roads I once biked on, the smell of the outdoor markets, now inside and air-conditioned, no longer exist. When it's something they can see, people protest. When it's something they can smell, they don't even notice. I have the feeling I'm going to step off the plane in Shanghai in a few years, and the scent that will greet me will be a clean, cool citrus hint of Tuscan Soul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FERRAGAMO TAKES SHANGHAI: To launch its cool, citrusy Tuscan Soul, Ferragamo erected a giant tent on the Huangpu River, where it staged a runway show of its men's and women's clothes, designed by Massimiliano Giornetti and Cristina Ortiz. A killer after-party followed, with the likes of Jennifer Jason Leigh. (TOP: JENS MORTENSEN. BOTTOM: FROM SALVATORE FERRAGAMO (6))
 DRAWING (ILLUSTRATION BY LEANNE SHAPTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); CLEANERS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (76%); JET FUEL (75%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); DIESEL FUEL (65%); CLIMATOLOGY (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



404 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Give That Bus a Makeover

BYLINE: By JEFFREY M. ZUPAN. 
Jeffrey M. Zupan is a senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association.

 BODY:
THIRTY years ago the New York City transit system was in shambles. Derailments and track fires were commonplace. Graffiti covered nearly every visible surface. Canceled trains were an everyday occurrence. All of this was the result of neglect that was politely called deferred maintenance. The solution was a package of fees and taxes that rescued not only the subway, bus and commuter rail systems, but the region's economy, too. 
 Now the Metropolitan Transportation Authority faces a shortfall that could be as large as $20 billion in its five-year capital plan. The authority is having trouble finding the money not only to maintain the transit system, but also to upgrade and expand it to meet future needs. 
 What do we want our public transit system to look like? We want riders to prefer it to driving, rather than viewing the system as something to be avoided at all costs or begrudgingly accepting it as a necessary evil. We want it to be reliable and safe. We want it to be fast, frequent, nearby and uncrowded. We want it to take us to our three major airports and to emerging job centers like Downtown Brooklyn and Jamaica, Queens, and to our neighbors in White Plains, Jersey City, Newark and Stamford, Conn.
 The projects that can make this happen are not fanciful or futuristic. They are measures that are within our grasp. They include new ways of thinking (like ferries in places where ground routes are circuitous and time-consuming), but also common-sense ideas that have long been needed (like buses, with lower floors to make boarding faster and easier, in lanes that are separated from traffic).
 There are small things that would alleviate daily frustrations, like electronic signs that would tell us, in a way we can understand, exactly when the next bus or train is arriving. But there are also big things that would expand the capacity and usefulness of our transit system. 
 Among these is the long-awaited (since the 1920s) Second Avenue subway line -- persistently derided as a symbol of bureaucratic futility -- that is now under construction in Manhattan. The project could be expanded into a spine for extensions into the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens that would unclog packed trains and revive neighborhood economies. 
 Another project that is already under way will bring the Long Island Rail Road into Grand Central Terminal, easing the journey for commuters from Queens and Long Island to Manhattan's East Side. And the Hudson River rail tunnel, planned by New Jersey Transit, will ensure that an essential labor market for Manhattan -- people who live west of the Hudson -- can continue to find jobs in New York City and support its economy. 
 And there are things that can be built to make us proud, like at Pennsylvania Station, the busiest intercity and commuter rail station in the nation, which, unlike the magnificent Grand Central Terminal, has not seen an awestruck tourist since the original station was torn down almost 50 years ago. A new Moynihan Station on Eighth Avenue would be a gateway that would attract rather than repel visitors and business travelers. 
 As our transit system improves, we could devote public space now consumed by moving and storing cars to uses like walking and biking. Our transit stations should be magnets for intelligent and environmentally sensitive land-use planning.
 How can we possibly afford all this when the transportation authority is struggling to finance the basic needs of the system? Money and vision are inseparable. Riders would pay more if they got more for their money. But how do we persuade the public to spend more for transit before they have seen improvements? If we make upgrades in places that riders will notice, people will see that changes are possible. 
 The way out of the system's financial problems is not to pay more for the same, or declining, transit service. Continued maintenance for an aging system and ballooning interest payments from excessive borrowing are bills that must be paid. But while we fix and replace the mundane parts of the system like tracks, ventilation and drainage, we must also repair the visible parts of the system -- like stations, trains and buses. The current transit system must be made more attractive, even as we move to expand the network.
 A well-functioning transit system is vital to our economy. Everyone -- not just transit riders -- should help pay for it, because everyone gains from it. Fare hikes may be necessary, but so are taxes. Car drivers see less traffic. Business owners and workers receive more profits and more jobs. And everyone else breathes cleaner air.
 There has never been a more important time to improve public transit. The right question is not how we can afford a better system, but what will happen if we fail to pay for one? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSH COCHRAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AIRPORTS (71%); FERRIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



405 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Russia Marches, Neighbors Check Their Cards

BYLINE: By DAVID L. STERN

 BODY:
WHAT will be the ripple effects of Russia's invasion of Georgia?
 For the former Soviet republics, Moscow has been the default power. Even among those that have tried to get nearer to the West -- like Georgia, Ukraine and the Baltic nations -- the Russian shadow is long. On its side is proximity, size, economic and political power, and links left over from many decades of living under a single national roof.
 Moscow has been successful in a realm often associated with the United States: soft power. Russian television stations are the main source of nonlocal media throughout the former Soviet Union. ''Managed democracy,'' the Kremlin's homegrown contribution to the science of governance, has found a receptive audience in the region. 
 Western influence nevertheless has been significant. The republics welcome European and American investment and technical training, financial aid and security cooperation. They also strive for legitimacy as full members of the world community. Most of all they view Western involvement as a counterbalance to Moscow's reach. Now this could change. Russia's willingness to use overwhelming force will speak loudly. It means the Kremlin's star is rising, and in Astana, Kazakhstan, and Baku, Azerbaijan, they are taking note. Some like Ukraine may seek accelerated integration with the West. But others may sidle closer to Moscow. The reaction to the invasion has so far mostly been muted, perhaps because the former republics' governments are waiting to see the West's ultimate reaction.
 ''No one wants to back a loser,'' said Martha Brill Olcott, a post-Soviet expert with the Carnegie Endowment for Peace.
 THE BALTICS Once independent, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania rushed to throw off all vestiges of their Soviet past, often to the outrage of Moscow and their native Russian-speaking communities. Now members of the European Union and NATO, they are on the front lines of combating what they consider signs of Russian expansion. The three Baltic presidents, along with those of Ukraine and Poland, traveled to Georgia last week in a show of solidarity.
 UKRAINE After the events in Georgia, eyes turned to Ukraine. Kiev and Moscow have sparred since the 2004 Orange Revolution, which brought the pro-Western government of Viktor Yushchenko to power and was a major blow to Russian prestige. Moscow cut gas supplies to the country two years ago over a payment dispute. Ukraine and Georgia have maintained close ties since the Orange Revolution; both petitioned for NATO membership, but the alliance rejected plans to fast-track the two countries' applications last spring.
 AZERBAIJAN President Ilham Aliyev has followed in the steps of his father, Heydar, maintaining an equilibrium among Russia, the West and other major neighboring players, like Iran. Western disapproval of the country's many democracy and human rights abuses has sometimes been muted. Azerbaijan is the primary source of oil for a pipeline running from the capital, Baku, to a port on the Turkish Mediterranean. The line has been a major American foreign policy objective and will ultimately supply some one million barrels per day to Western markets.
 UZBEKISTAN Three years after ties to the West were severed following a bloody crackdown on demonstrators, Uzbekistan appears to be reaching out again. In January, Adm. William J. Fallon, the commander of the United States Central Command at the time, visited the country. President Islam Karimov runs a repressive police state, but Western governments want to remain engaged, to gain access to the country's copious gas reserves and out of fear that this nation of 28 million, the most populous in Central Asia, could destabilize.
 KYRGYZSTAN This mountainous nation of five million is strategic because it hosts a major American air base for operations in Afghanistan. It has also been traditionally viewed as the most pro-Western and open Central Asian state, though it is also home to a smaller, less strategic Russian air base. President Kurmanbek Bakiev, however, has grown more authoritarian since storming to power in the so-called Tulip Revolution in 2005, and Russian influence has correspondingly grown.
 KAZAKHSTAN Russia, China, the United States and the European Union have assiduously courted this sprawling Eurasian nation, home to some of the world's largest non-OPEC oil reserves. President Nursultan Nazarbayev, in turn, has carefully balanced his country's foreign policy interests. Mr. Nazarbayev, however, is an authoritarian leader in the mold of Vladimir V. Putin and bristles at occasional Western criticism. Western governments hope that Kazakhstan's coming chairmanship of Europe's main democracy and human rights organization, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, will help anchor the country in their camp.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Map details Russia and surrounding countries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PETITIONS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (96%); GEORGIA (94%); BALTIC STATES (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATVIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



406 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Cold Friends, Wrapped In Mink And Medals

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Bill Keller, executive editor of The Times, covered the last years of the Soviet Union for the newspaper.

 BODY:
Writing in The Financial Times last week, Chrystia Freeland recalled Francis Fukuyama's 1989 essay ''The End of History?,'' which trumpeted the definitive triumph of liberal democracy. The great nightmare tyrannies of last century -- the Evil Empire, Red China -- had been left behind by those inseparable twins, freedom and prosperity. Civilization had chosen, and it chose us.
 So much for that thesis. Surveying the Russian military rout of neighboring Georgia and the spectacle of China's Olympics, Ms. Freeland, editor of The Financial Times's American edition and a journalist who started her career covering Russia and Ukraine, proclaimed that a new Age of Authoritarianism was upon us. 
 If it is not yet an age, it is at least a season: Springtime for autocrats, and not just the minor-league monsters of Zimbabwe and the like, but the giant regimes that seemed so surely bound for the ash heap in 1989.
 The Chinese have made their Olympics an exultant display of athletic prowess and global prestige without having to temper their impulse to suppress and control. From the dazzling locksteps of that opening ceremony, to the kowtowing international V.I.P.'s, to the carefully policed absence of protest, this was an Olympics largely free of democratic mess.
 Individualism has been confined between lane markers. The pre-Olympics promises that attention would be paid to international norms of behavior went unredeemed. The New York Times's Andrew Jacobs followed one citizen who decided to take up the government's Olympic offer of designated protest zones for aggrieved parties who had filed the proper paperwork. Zhang Wei applied for the requisite license and was promptly arrested for ''disturbing social order.'' Take that, International Olympic Committee.
 The striking thing about Russia's subjugation of uppity Georgia was not the ease or audacity but the swagger of it. This was not just about a couple of obscure border enclaves, nor even, really, about Georgia. This was existential payback.
 It turns out that if 1989 was an end -- the end of the Wall, the beginning of the end of the Soviet empire, if not in fact the end of history -- it was also a beginning.
 It gave birth to a bitter resentment in the humiliated soul of Russia, and no one nursed the grudge so fiercely as Vladimir V. Putin. He watched the empire he had spied for disbanded. He endured the belittling lectures of a rich and self-righteous West. He watched the United States charm away his neighbors, invade his allies in Iraq, and, in his view, play God with the political map of Europe.
 Mr. Putin is, in this sense of grievance, a man of his people, as visitors to the New York Times Web site can see in the sampling of breast-beating commentary from Russian bloggers. It is safe to assume that Mr. Putin's already stratospheric popularity at home has grown to Phelpsian proportions, not least among the long-suffering military.
 In China, 1989 was the year that a spark of liberal aspiration flickered on Tiananmen Square, and was decisively extinguished. That was another beginning, or at least a renewal: of Chinese resolve. In May of that year, in the midst of the Tiananmen euphoria, Mikhail S. Gorbachev visited Beijing, and two visions of a new communism stared each other in the face.
 The protesters on the Chinese pavilion held banners welcoming Mr. Gorbachev as a champion of the greater freedom they sought. Meanwhile, the visiting Russian delegation marveled at the abundance in Chinese stores, the bounty of a policy that chose economic liberalization without political dissent.
 The Chinese and Russians scorned each other's neo-Communist models, but in some ways they have evolved toward one another. Both countries now tolerate a measure of entrepreneurship and social license, as long as neither threatens the dominion of the state. Both countries have calculated that you can buy a measure of domestic stability if you combine a little opportunity with an appeal to national pride. (The Chinese ''street'' felt no more sympathy for restive Tibetans than the Russian blogosphere felt for Georgia.) And both have discovered that if you are rich the world is less likely to get in your way.
 President Bush was mocked from both sides for his seeming impotence. Neoconservatives were appalled by photos of President Bush sharing a laugh with Mr. Putin in Beijing while Russian armor gathered at the Georgian border. For a president who has made the export of democracy his signature doctrine, that looked to the stand-tough crowd like a ''Pet Goat'' moment. 
 Others argued that this was a crisis Mr. Bush tacitly encouraged by talking up Georgia's rambunctious president as a friend and NATO candidate. By midweek, possibly goaded by the wailing of neoconservatives and the aggressively anti-Putin rhetoric of Senator John McCain, Mr. Bush had abruptly amped up his opprobrium and dispatched an American airlift of humanitarian aid. And by the weekend there was a cold war chill in the air.
 But Mr. Bush's predicament is not just his. The question of how to deal with these reinvigorated autocracies bedevils the Europeans and will surely rank high among the legacy issues that confound Mr. Bush's successor.
 This time it is not -- or not yet -- the threat of nuclear apocalypse that limits the West's options toward our emboldened Eastern rivals. The Chinese, in fact, are acting as if they have gotten past the saber-rattling stage of emerging-power status; they lavish diplomacy on Taiwan and Japan, and deploy the might of capital instead. The Russians may be in a more adolescent, table-pounding stage of development, but Mr. Putin, too, prefers to work the economic levers, bullying with petroleum.
 The United States, meanwhile, is mired in Iraq and Afghanistan, estranged from much of the world, and bled by serial economic crises. 
 History, it seems, is back, and not so obviously on our side.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHOWDOWN: The bodies of dead civilians lie among mangled bicycles near Tiananmen Square in Beijing in 1989. Tanks and soldiers brought a violent end to student demonstrations for democratic reform in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 COMING DOWN: A man hammers away at the Berlin Wall in 1989. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GAPS III/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT)(WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); WRITERS (79%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (94%); GEORGIA (93%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (77%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



407 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Well, a Pataki Center Would Play in Peekskill

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL 

 BODY:
 GEORGE E. PATAKI, who was New York's governor for the 12 years before Client 9, was born in this jigsaw of a city that today mixes the gritty, the bohemian and the quaint in a luminous setting on a Hudson River bay. 
 He still lives a few miles away in Garrison and comes into town to have lunch at Kathleen's Tea Room, whose floral teapots suggest it should be found somewhere closer to Edwardian Bloomsbury rather than in an industrial hub that once manufactured a sizable share of the nation's stoves, crayons and yeast. He buys used books from Bruised Apple's copious collection and artwork at the Driftwood Gallery, one of many galleries in a city that has been rejuvenated by an ingenious plan to invite artists into lofts forsaken by warehouses and factories. 
 Now some former aides want to honor Mr. Pataki in his hometown with a George Pataki Leadership and Learning Center, which would be housed in space they have leased in a two-story building on North Division Street. They want to help schoolchildren from the area understand how state government works, a topic that baffles many adult New Yorkers who are convinced that the entire apparatus comes down to three men in a room. With lessons drawn from Mr. Pataki's experiences, schoolchildren would learn how bills are passed, examine budgets and clemency requests, watch mock press briefings and get to play governor for a day.
 The center's private sponsors have filed paperwork with the State Department of Education and are trying to raise $500,000 for a start-up fund so they can open the center in the fall. Here, where George Pataki's parents operated a farm stand that sold savory ears of corn, where he was a star on the high school cross-country team and was mayor from 1982 to 1984, there is already a lot of good will toward such a project among the city's 22,000 residents.
 ''When we want to present opportunities for children, what better than an education center that says you can come from a farm in Peekskill and go all the way to the governor's mansion,'' said Kathleen Chilcott, the tearoom's exuberant owner.
 Not surprisingly, the idea for the center has already come in for some out-of-town pans. While there are many presidential monuments and libraries, New York's governors have not typically been so honored, said Peter Eisenstadt, editor of the Encyclopedia of New York State.
 ''I think it's risible,'' he said. ''Pataki's already been forgotten. You don't think of his time in office as dynamic or forceful.''
 Mr. Pataki's aides would beg to differ, citing the more than one million acres in the Adirondacks and elsewhere that he preserved and the state's general prosperity during his reign. They rebuff those who dismiss the project as a personal museum, noting that Mr. Pataki is too modest to acquiesce to such hero worship.
 ''He didn't want to be up front with it, didn't want it to be something for him,'' said Charles A. Gargano, who was Mr. Pataki's economic development czar and is chairman of the group founding the education center.
 Whatever it will be called, Mr. Eisenstadt and several others interviewed offered some cautions about monuments to politicians.
 They are prone to propaganda. Will the Pataki center, for example, teach student visitors that despite a legislature of 150 assemblymen and 62 senators, the fate of a bill often comes down to a gathering of the governor, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader? Monuments are rarely that candid.
 They are prone to celebration rather than dispassionate instruction. Institutions named after politicians seem to collect tributes the way statuettes collect dust. Education can easily turn to memorializing.
 They are prone to costing taxpayers money. While they sometimes start out as nonprofit groups, these institutions have a way of drawing earmarked spending from government officials. Moreover, if Mr. Pataki decides to deposit his gubernatorial papers in Peekskill, he might earn a tax deduction. And scholars like Kenneth T. Jackson, a history professor at Columbia, worry that important and controversial papers might not be as available to scholars as if they were in the state archives in Albany or in a library in Manhattan.
 ''They shouldn't be spirited away where you have special access,'' he said. ''They're the property of the state, and they should be accessible.'' 
 But if those pitfalls can be avoided, there is also support for such a project from politicians like Mario M. Cuomo, Mr. Pataki's Democratic predecessor, who has no monuments and hasn't even submitted to sitting for an official portrait.
 ''I have no objections to officials memorializing their work as a basis to help people understand government better,'' he said, slyly drawing a fine distinction. ''The idea is certainly virtuous.''
 In that vein, Professor Jackson too offers some backhanded praise for an education center.
 ''Anything that makes government visible and transparent is probably a good idea,'' he said. ''We probably have the most dysfunctional state government in the United States. We spend a big amount of money, and most people figure they don't get a good return. In Albany, nothing ever seems to get done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PEEKSKILL'S OWN: The proposed site of a Pataki center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (70%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (70%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (70%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



408 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: At School, Technology Starts to Turn a Corner

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
COUNT me a technological optimist, but I have always thought that the people who advocate putting computers in classrooms as a way to transform education were well intentioned but wide of the mark. It's not the problem, and it's not the answer.
 Yet as a new school year begins, the time may have come to reconsider how large a role technology can play in changing education. There are promising examples, both in the United States and abroad, and they share some characteristics. The ratio of computers to pupils is one to one. Technology isn't off in a computer lab. Computing is an integral tool in all disciplines, always at the ready. 
 Web-based education software has matured in the last few years, so that students, teachers and families can be linked through networks. Until recently, computing in the classroom amounted to students doing Internet searches, sending e-mail and mastering word processing, presentation programs and spreadsheets. That's useful stuff, to be sure, but not something that alters how schools work.
 The new Web education networks can open the door to broader changes. Parents become more engaged because they can monitor their children's attendance, punctuality, homework and performance, and can get tips for helping them at home. Teachers can share methods, lesson plans and online curriculum materials.
 In the classroom, the emphasis can shift to project-based learning, a real break with the textbook-and-lecture model of education. In a high school class, a project might begin with a hypothetical letter from the White House that says oil prices are spiking, the economy is faltering and the president's poll numbers are falling. The assignment would be to devise a new energy policy in two weeks. The shared Web space for the project, for example, would include the White House letter, the sources the students must consult, their work plan and timetable, assignments for each student, the assessment criteria for their grades and, eventually, the paper the team delivers. Oral presentations would be required. 
 The project-based approach, some educators say, encourages active learning and produces better performance in class and on standardized tests. 
 The educational bottom line, it seems, is that while computer technology has matured and become more affordable, the most significant development has been a deeper understanding of how to use the technology.
 ''Unless you change how you teach and how kids work, new technology is not really going to make a difference,'' said Bob Pearlman, a former teacher who is the director of strategic planning for the New Technology Foundation, a nonprofit organization. 
 The foundation, based in Napa, Calif., has developed a model for project-based teaching and is at the forefront of the drive for technology-enabled reform of education. Forty-two schools in nine states are trying the foundation's model, and their numbers are growing rapidly.
 Behind the efforts, of course, are concerns that K-12 public schools are falling short in preparing students for the twin challenges of globalization and technological change. Worries about the nation's future competitiveness led to the creation in 2002 of the Partnership for 21st Century Skills, a coalition whose members include the Department of Education and technology companies like Apple, Cisco Systems, Dell and Microsoft. 
 The government-industry partnership identifies a set of skills that mirror those that the New Technology Foundation model is meant to nurture. Those skills include collaboration, systems thinking, self-direction and communication, both online and in person.
 State officials in Indiana took a look at the foundation's model and offered travel grants for local teachers and administrators to visit its schools in California. Sally Nichols, an English teacher, came away impressed and signed up for the new project-based teaching program at her school, Decatur Central High School in Indianapolis.
 Last year, Ms. Nichols and another teacher taught a biology and literature class for freshmen. (Cross-disciplinary courses are common in the New Technology model.) Typically, half of freshmen fail biology, but under the project-based model the failure rate was cut in half.
 ''There's a lot of ownership by the kids in their work instead of teachers lecturing and being the givers of all knowledge,'' Ms. Nichols explained. ''The classes are just much more alive. They don't sleep in class.''
 IN Indiana, the number of schools using the foundation model will increase to six this year, and an additional dozen communities have signed up for the next year, said David Shane, a member of the state board of education. ''It's caught fire in Indiana, and we've got to have this kind of education to prepare our young people for the future in a global economy that is immersed in technology.''
 The extra cost for schools that have adopted the New Technology model is about $1,000 per student a year, once a school is set up, says Mr. Pearlman of the foundation. 
 In England, where the government has promoted technology in schools for a decade, the experiment with technology-driven change in education is further along. 
 Five years ago, the government gave computers to students at two schools in high-crime neighborhoods in Birmingham. For the students, a Web-based portal is the virtual doorway for assignments, school social activities, online mentoring, discussion groups and e-mail. Even students who are suspended from school for a few days beg not to lose their access to the portal, says Sir Mark Grundy, 49, the executive principal of Shireland Collegiate Academy and the George Salter Collegiate Academy. Today, the schools are among the top in the nation in yearly improvements in students' performance in reading and math tests.
 Sir Mark says he is convinced that advances in computing, combined with improved understanding of how to tailor the technology to different students, can help transform education.
 ''This is the best Trojan horse for causing change in schools that I have ever seen,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sally Nichols, a teacher at Decatur Central High School in Indianapolis, uses the New Technology teaching method. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CURRICULA (78%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); HOMEWORK (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (78%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); FAMILY (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



409 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 17, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 BELARUS FREES POLITICIAN JAILED FOR LEADING PROTESTS
 Belarus, considered to have one of the world's most authoritarian governments, released its most prominent opposition politician from prison, where he had been serving a lengthy sentence for leading antigovernment protests, officials said. The opposition figure, Aleksandr V. Kazulin, was freed after months of international pressure on Belarus's president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, above. PAGE 8
 FRANCE'S FAITH IN THE ATOM
 On the Normandy coast, France is building its newest nuclear reactor, its first in 10 years. President Nicolas Sarkozy has announced there will be another like it. The construction reaffirms the French choice for nuclear power, which was made in the late 1950s, intensified during the oil shocks of the 1970s and maintained despite Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. Nuclear power provides 77 percent of electricity in France, and relatively few public doubts are expressed. PAGE 6 
 SIX KILLED IN BAGHDAD
 A suicide bomber in Baghdad killed 6 people and wounded 10 in an attack near a bus pickup point for Shiite pilgrims heading to Karbala, Iraqi security officials said. The attack was the third in three days aimed at Shiite worshipers heading to the holy city of Karbala to celebrate the birthday of an imam revered by Iraq's Shiite group. PAGE 10
 METRO 
 FROM '76 TO '08 GAMES, 
 Barred Becomes Proud
 David Peng lost his chance to compete in the 1976 Olympic pentathlon when his native Taiwan was barred from the Montreal Games because of a dispute with China. Now in the United States, he watches as China plays host to its own Olympics, with athletes from Taiwan (competing as Chinese Taipei) welcome. ''So much has changed in such a short period of time,'' he says. PAGE 25
 A CITY OF OLYMPIANS
 From the gold medalist Kevin Young, whose 400-meter hurdle record set in the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona remains unbroken, to others whose Olympic performance was only a flicker and who are now anonymous, scores of former Olympians are now living and working in and around New York City. And not all of them competed for the United States. PAGE 28
 BACK TO BUSINESS
 Rudolph W. Giuliani has not spent much time pondering how he went from a Republican presidential front-runner to an afterthought in a few short months. Instead, he says, he has been busy rebuilding his business and promoting the presidential candidacy of Senator John McCain. PAGE 25
 OBITUARIES
 DOTTIE COLLINS, 84
 A star pitcher in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, created in 1943 to provide home front entertainment while many major leaguers were off to war, she dazzled opposing batters, pitching underhand, sidearm and overhand. In the summer of 1948, she pitched until she was four months pregnant. She won more than 20 games in each of her first four seasons. PAGE 22
 NATIONAL
 DEMOCRATS LOOK TO RETURN
 North Carolina to Fold
 North Carolina has not supported a Democrat for president since 1976, when Jimmy Carter, from Georgia, led the ticket. But the Obama campaign, believing the state is ripe for the picking, is conducting an intense registration drive and has reactivated the extensive volunteer network it built before crushing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton there in the May primary. PAGE 14
 LEADING THE MILITARY
 If donations are a reliable gauge, Republicans may not be able to count on the military vote in 2008. A report issued by the Center for Responsive Politics shows that troops overseas have donated more than six times as much to Senator Barack Obama as to Senator John McCain. Mr. Obama has so far raised a total of $335,536 to Mr. McCain's $280,513 among all military personnel. PAGE 21
 SPORTS
 WITH NO. 4 DEPARTED,
 No. 12 Tries to Step Up
 Following a legend is never easy, and not everyone believes that Aaron Rodgers is up to the task of succeeding Brett Favre as the Green Bay quarterback. But Rodgers has been underestimated his entire career -- coming out of high school, he didn't even have a Division I scholarship offer. ''I think he has special things inside of him,'' said defensive end Aaron Kampman, Rodgers's training camp roommate the last two summers. PAGE 14
 NORTH SIDE MAGIC
 For his first trick, the amateur magician and professional pitcher Ryan Dempster transformed himself from capable closer, his temporary role the past three years, to dominant starter. Now Chicago Cubs fans hope that he can make a century of frustration disappear by helping the team to a World Series victory. PAGE 2
 ARTS
 RUSSIAN AND RICH,
 And Art's New It Girl
 A year ago few people in the art world had heard of Dasha Zhukova. But since she helped turn the Bakhmetevsky Bus Garage in Moscow into the Garage Center for Contemporary Culture, the center and Ms. Zhukova's deep-pocketed connections have made her an art-world It Girl. Her sudden fame attests to the seismic effect that Russian money -- and in some cases Ukrainian or Georgian money -- is having. PAGE 1
 CONVENTIONAL ART
 A giant ice sculpture, karaoke-style speech-alongs and assorted other projects by artists will be popping up in both Denver and Minneapolis for the Democratic and Republican conventions. And while some artists might be tempted to insert political messages into their work, organizers are urging them to stick to nonpartisan themes. PAGE 20
 BOOK REVIEW
 ASSIGNING RESPONSIBILITY
 For Good and Bad
 In ''Credit and Blame,'' the late sociologist Charles Tilly delves into why people are inclined to assign one or the other, depending on their assessment of which needs assigning. And while giving credit would seem to need no defending, Tilly considers blaming, Alexander Star writes in his review, ''an essential habit that allows us to maintain and repair our relationships with others.'' PAGE 10
 POINTING TO THE RIGHT
 Speaking of blame, in ''The Wrecking Crew,'' the liberal journalist Thomas Frank blames conservative Republicans for creating a capital that seems to be run by lobbyists. But, Michael Lind writes in his review, Frank's portrait ''sacrifices complexity to caricature.'' PAGE 12
 T STYLE
 CAN LIZ CLAIBORNE
 Get Its Groove Back?
 The $5 billion fashion giant is being retooled, with the task falling to Isaac Mizrahi and the new chief executive, William McComb. Wall Street is sweating bullets. PAGE 250
 THE MAGAZINE
 A STORM PROVIDES
 A Teachable Moment
 Hurricane Katrina wiped out the New Orleans public schools. It also created a rare chance to build a system that might solve the biggest problem in urban education -- how to teach disadvantaged children. PAGE 30
 THE RINE IN SPINE
 Does a teacher have a Henry Higgins duty to correct mispronunciations resulting from the regional accents of fourth graders? And is it O.K. to post a video from a toddler's birthday online if the toddler isn't yours? The Ethicist. PAGE 15
 Questions for:
 Brigitte Gabriel 13
 Travel
 THE VOLCANOES ARE COLD;
 The Ice Cream Is Colder
 On the bus that travels down Ecuador's valley known as Avenue of the Volcanoes, make sure you keep an eye out the window. Not for the scenery: roving groups of food vendors work the bus routes, peddling delicacies like freshly made and familiar ice cream but also local delicacies, including a taffylike candy. Page 9 
 STRAP IN AND PONY UP
 Airline travel stands to lose yet another luxury, at least on U.S. Airways. Not that the average experience on any airline was fraught with pampering before, but now the airline has announced it is going to start charging for items like bottled water and coffee. A breakdown of the various airlines and what you get -- if anything -- with your ticket to ride. Page 8 
 Style
 LIVING BY OPRAH'S WORDS,
 But Every One of Them?
 Robyn Okrant is dressed according to Oprah Winfrey's ''Shlumpadinka Makeovers'' episode, and she made a vision board to organize her dreams. All in a day's work for the mind behind livingoprah.com, a blog documenting Ms. Okrant's experiment: to live life according to the wellspring of advice that Ms. Winfrey offers on her show, on her Web site and in her magazine. Page ST1
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 THE FINANCIAL POTENTIAL
 Of Airsickness
 Airlines have discovered that customers are willing to pay for all kinds of services that used to come at no extra charge. What's more, there hasn't been much fuss. Now marketing staffs are at work devising even more ways to raise prices aside from ticket fees in what the industry has called an ''a la carte'' approach. PAGE 1
 A DOWNSIDE OF SUBSIDIES
 Fuel subsidies offered by some countries don't just help raise costs for the rest of the world by artificially stimulating demand, Robert H. Frank writes, they are also an inefficient approach to economic incentives for the countries offering them. PAGE 6
 AUTOMOBILES
 GASOLINE MISERS
 In Larger Sizes
 As gas prices in the United States catch up to what much of the rest of the world had been paying (and prices in much of the rest of the world go even higher), fuel economy weighs on Americans' minds. And because not everyone can make do with a subcompact, some less obvious choices than the usual suspects bear consideration. SPORTS, PAGE 15 
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 TRACKING THE PROGRESS
 Of Movie Tastelessness
 Anyone trying to track how American cinema got to the level of tastelessness reveled in by ''Tropic Thunder'' -- which even favorable reviews criticize parts of as vulgar, puerile and needlessly gross -- would do well to travel back to 1977 and ''The Kentucky Fried Movie,'' then ''Animal House,'' and so on. PAGE 2
 WHAT COLOR IS WHITE?
 Among the questions raised by the mountains of data (and projections) about race and ethnicity from the Census Bureau is this: what exactly does ''white'' mean, anyway? Judging by its various applications through the years, and people's self-identification, not much. PAGE 6
 Editorial
 POLITICS AND WAL-MART
 It is hardly news that Wal-Mart will do whatever it takes to keep unions out of its stores. Facing the prospect that union-friendly Democrats could win both the White House and Congress, the retail giant is now turning its attention to this year's election. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9 
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Why is Obama not winning by a landslide? Because voters know next to nothing about his competitor. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 MAUREEN DOWD
 At the beginning of his presidency, George W. Bush thought he'd lead America on a Shermanesque march through the Middle East. Now he can only watch helplessly as Russia marches through a different Georgia. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The Chinese government has set aside protest space during the Olympics, with permits given out at police stations. This makes for impressively cost-effective law enforcement. In the old days, the police had to go out and catch protesters in the act; now they can be detained right in the station. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 The recent exoneration of Steven J. Hatfill in the 2001 anthrax attacks poses uncomfortable journalistic questions that do not have easy answers. How do you balance the interests of the public in knowing as much as possible about a major criminal investigation with the rights of innocent individuals who come under suspicion? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BASEBALL (86%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (75%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (72%); SPORTS (70%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (70%); ATHLETES (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); TRACK & FIELD (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (57%) BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



410 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Blind to Run Their Own Businesses

BYLINE: By NIKO KOPPEL

 BODY:
Inside the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse, a mural of a blindfolded Lady Justice presides over the fluorescent plexiglass of J's Candy Stand, which offers pretzels, newspapers, coffee cake and bottles of Pepto-Bismol.
 Lawyers, jurors and litigants, after passing through a maze of security checks, often pause at the stand for a snack. Ramiro Gonzalez, 72, the soft-spoken man behind the counter, retrieves packs of gum and cans of soda, palming the bills he is paid and holding them up to his left eye for identification. ''Most people see me working and they don't know,'' said Mr. Gonzalez, who has operated the stand for nearly 16 years: He is legally blind. 
 Mr. Gonzalez, who lives in Bay Shore, on Long Island, developed cataracts while in his 50s and, because of complications, had to have his right eye removed. With limited sight in his left eye, he has to use a magnifying glass for close vision. 
 He used to operate a bodega and drive a Mister Softee truck. When he lost much of his vision, he said, ''I didn't just want to pass the time, I wanted to still work and make a living.'' 
 He is one of the beneficiaries of the Business Enterprise Program run by the state's Commission for the Blind and Visually Handicapped, which has helped establish concession stands and cafes operated by the blind in state and federal buildings across New York. Federal and state legislation gives the blind preference in operating these businesses in government buildings. 
 Owen Myrie, 45, has spent the last 13 years working nine hours a day, five days a week, behind a worn stand at the top of a marble staircase in the building that houses the Summons Part of New York City's Criminal Court, on Broadway north of City Hall. 
 ''I wouldn't give this away for anything,'' he said.
 Mr. Myrie, who is from Jamaica, lost his vision to glaucoma when he was 14, and as he got older, he struggled to find work. ''I could feel the stares of some of the people,'' said Mr. Myrie, reflecting, behind dark glasses, on his experience during job interviews. After completing the state's training course, which included food safety and math, Mr. Myrie received a grant to operate his business. (The program now provides loans, rather than grants.)
 A self-described creature of habit, he organizes his store by memory, placing bananas, potato chips and mints in neat rows. Mr. Myrie does not pay rent, but he has to pay 20 percent of his earnings to the commission for health and life insurance and a pension. He said he earned $200 to $300 a week and collects Social Security disability payments. 
 The unemployment rate among blind people of working age is close to 70 percent, said Peter Crowley, assistant commissioner of the agency; some research studies put the figure closer to 55 percent.
 But blindness does not have to mean an unproductive life, Mr. Crowley said, pointing to the recent accession of Gov. David A. Paterson, who is legally blind. 
 ''What could be a better role model,'' he said, ''than a governor who is legally blind and who shows people with disabilities that they can do great things?'' 
 Mr. Crowley himself has congenital optic atrophy and gets around with help from a trained black Labrador named Trinity.
 Since 2006, the number of concession stands operated by blind vendors has grown to 98 from 86, and five more vendors are about to go into business, filling every concession stand that is set aside for blind vendors in the state. An advocacy group, the State Committee of Blind Vendors, is seeking to broaden the priority for the blind to include concessions in the State University system, the Department of Correctional Services and the Thruway Authority. 
 On a recent weekday, Patrick Piccirillo, 56, leaned on the counter of his dimly lighted, sparsely stocked newsstand, which he has operated for six years outside Brooklyn Criminal Court. Mr. Piccirillo's sight failed after he developed diabetes in the 1980s; it cost him his job at a trucking firm. 
 His stand is near a prisoner holding cell. ''I was scared to hell when I first got the place,'' said Mr. Piccirillo. He said he had been cheated by customers who demanded change from larger bills than they had handed over. To make it easier for blind vendors, the commission provides equipment like talking cash registers and automated readers that identify a bill's denomination. And, while Mr. Piccirillo has become comfortable with the environment, he still does not accept bills larger than $20. 
 Just before the lunch break, a steady stream of customers waited in line. A woman asked for aspirin and a bagel; a police officer ordered a microwavable chicken Parmesan sandwich for $4; a young man casually spit on the floor before buying a Snapple. Over the din of metal detectors going off, some of Mr. Piccirillo's regulars greeted him by name. A court officer bragged about his winning lottery ticket and a woman with a shaved head asked about the mixed nuts. 
 ''I love the people in this building; we're like a family here,'' Mr. Piccirillo said. ''They watch out for me and I watch out for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Owen Myrie, top, waiting for customers outside a court office on Broadway near City Hall. Above, Ramiro Gonzalez checking bills at his stand inside the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLINDNESS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); GLAUCOMA (75%); CATARACTS (75%); JURY TRIALS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (61%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (50%); FOOD SAFETY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



411 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Can States Pass the Testing Test?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''How Well Are They Really Doing?'' (editorial, Aug. 12):
 In discussing how some states game their student test results, you state, ''The federal government could actually embarrass the laggard states by naming the ones that cling to weak tests.'' The evidence on these states has been available for some time.
 In 2005, Tennessee tested its eighth-grade students in math and found 87 percent of students performed at or above the proficiency level, while the National Assessment of Educational Progress, or NAEP, test indicated only 21 percent of Tennessee's eighth graders proficient in math. 
 In Mississippi, 89 percent of fourth graders performed at or above proficiency on the state reading test, while only 18 percent demonstrated proficiency on the federal test. In Alabama, 83 percent of fourth-grade students scored at or above proficient on the state's reading test, while only 22 percent were proficient on the NAEP test. 
 Other states were also found guilty in their determinations of proficient when compared with the federal NAEP test. 
 The No Child Left Behind Act will never be able to realize its potential as long as entire states are left behind because of the duplicitous efforts of their state officials. If Congress adopted national standards with a corresponding set of national exams in its reauthorization of the law, it could effectively minimize or eliminate these individual state shenanigans.
 Paul Hoss Marshfield, Mass., Aug.
 12, 2008
 The writer is a retired Massachusetts public school teacher.
 To the Editor:
 National testing will never provide the results you are seeking. The economic needs of the United States will never translate into higher or better test scores, especially tests that are norm-referenced, which is the standard format for testing in the United States. 
 In mathematics, most tests, curriculums and teaching do not address divergent thinking, creativity, problem solving in a contextual situation or even higher-order thinking. There is little collaborative work, development of learning communities or mathematical proof at any grade level. 
 New York State has created standards that have pushed mathematics from 10th grade to ninth grade, ninth grade to eighth grade and so on, thinking this modification will enhance student learning.
 Teaching has not changed, a rich and deep curriculum is still missing, and schools are now teaching to the test. Need I say more?
 Linda Metnetsky Eastport, Me., Aug.
 12, 2008
 The writer is a member of the Bank Street College graduate school faculty.
 To the Editor:
 Standardized testing has become everyone's favorite punching bag. Candidates for office find that criticizing testing in stump speeches translates into cheap applause lines. 
 But opponents of using tests to ensure that all children are learning at agreed-upon acceptable levels have failed to offer reasonable alternatives that would help our nation live up to its responsibility of guaranteeing that children are not falling through the cracks.
 We've already seen what happens when no one is watching. Entire generations of our most vulnerable citizens have been hampered in their attempts to achieve the American dream because we, as a nation, looked the other way regarding their education.
 We owe it to every child to make federal education aid contingent upon meaningful student assessments. Anything short of this social compact would represent a step backward in our attempts to provide opportunities for every child who passes through the public schoolhouse doors.
 Joe Williams Executive Director Democrats for Education Reform New York, Aug.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The current uncritical preoccupation with testing as an education reform mechanism stems from the assumption that test scores provide an accurate bottom line that can be used to account for school performance.
 The psychometric reality, however, is that learning cannot be measured as a precise quantity because it is not a tangible thing. Rather, learning is a mental process that cannot be directly observed. Standardized tests indirectly assess only a small sample of any area of learning. They provide estimates from which only inferences can be drawn.
 This is why an enduring principle of educational testing holds that because of the insufficient information standardized tests provide, decisions about student learning and school performance should never be made based on test scores alone. 
 Unless and until policy makers, politicians and, yes, the press free themselves from the simplistic and fallacious notion that standardized test scores represent absolute quantities of learning, they will very likely promote miseducative practices in our schools.
 William G. Wraga Athens, Ga., Aug.
 12, 2008
 The writer is a professor of education at the University of Georgia.
 To the Editor:
 Yes, the existing system of state tests is a travesty. We do need more accurate and consistent evaluations. But the harm done by teaching to the test, taking away the time for anything besides basics and drill, is not necessary. 
 As is done with the National Assessment of Educational Progress test, only a small percentage of students need be tested, and the same students need not take every test. 
 This would alleviate the distorting effect of high-stakes testing and save a great deal of money. True, one would have to evaluate teaching in a less mechanical way than by mass tests. That is hardly a bad thing.
 One should be very cautious in approving the No Child Left Behind sort of testing. It was pushed upon us mainly by people who do not want to support public education, as one can tell from their other public statements. 
 Thomas Zaslavsky Binghamton, N.Y., Aug.
 12, 2008
 The writer is a professor of mathematics at Binghamton University, SUNY.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TESTING (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); WRITERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



412 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: A Subprime Glossary for the mortgage Scandal.

BYLINE: By JACK ROSENTHAL. 
Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundations, has pinch-hit for the vacationing William Safire since 1982.

 BODY:
Subprime was voted the word of the year by the American Dialect Society in recognition of the mortgage scandal and crisis that has for months enveloped housing and real estate around the country. But that umbrella term, describing cheap -- often suspiciously cheap -- mortgages, encompasses a whole glossary of often-colorful expressions that could be described as subsubprime. They reflect the deceit, cynicism and scandalous exploitation that are taking the homes of many thousands, perhaps millions, of families.
 Some other words, words that betoken possible rescue and relief, are also finally entering the vocabulary. Meanwhile, people everywhere -- a widow in the Bronx who needs money for a new roof or a young couple in San Diego looking for their first home -- confront an array of bewildering, often deceptive practices described by sub subprime words like the following. 
 Exploding ARM sounds violent and is for many families. It describes an adjustable-rate mortgage for which the interest rate goes up so fast that borrowers, who could afford the monthly payments for the original mortgage, are driven out of their homes. For example, a typical $100,000 loan at 4.5 percent would call for a monthly payment of $500. The same loan at 7.5 percent would cost $700. 
 Foreclosure rescue sounds benevolent but it's not, says Sarah Ludwig, director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project in New York. On the contrary. ''Typically, it's a scam to steal a home,'' in which the owner is gulled into signing over title to the house in exchange for promises to pay off the arrears.
 Jingle mail is the answer. What's the question? Listen to Gretchen Morgenson of The Times, who has written scathingly about the subprime scandal since it first surfaced: What do banks call it when troubled borrowers abandon their homes, sending them the keys?
 Liars' loans describes one form of come-on to potential home buyers. Joe Nocera, the Times business columnist, describes these as loans offered by banks that have ''practically begged borrowers to fib about their income.''
 Ninja loans, short for No Income, No Job or Assets, is the sardonic way people in the business describe poorly documented loans that were blithely made to high-risk borrowers. 
 No-docs loans and low-docs loans are variations on the same theme, mortgage loans made by lenders hungry to get in on the action during the real estate boom years. Another variation: stated-income loans, for which avaricious lenders simply took borrowers' claims at face value and did not even pretend to ask for documentation of their ability to pay. 
 Alt-A loans. ''A-paper'' refers to high-quality loans made to borrowers with excellent credit scores who document their income and assets. Lenders are now growing concerned about a step down, alternate-A loans, made to borrowers with good credit scores but who can't or, for whatever reason, won't fully document their finances.
 One-stop shop. Sarah Gerecke, the head of Neighborhood Housing Services in New York, calls attention to this form of sometimes-fraudulent operation, one that preys on unwary borrowers by offering, all at once, house, mortgage lawyer, inspector and appraiser. 
 Property flipping is what some real estate speculators do in neighborhoods where many houses have been foreclosed and blank windows and tall grass push down values generally. They buy them up at bargain prices and then quickly resell them, with fraudulent overappraisals, to unsuspecting first-home buyers. 
 Toxic waste. A large dimension of the subprime crisis is the bundling of many mortgages into securities that are sliced into anonymized packages and sold to investors. Michael Hickey, executive director of the new Center for New York City Neighborhoods, hears this term used to describe the lowest-rated portion of such a security, usually sold to the investor with the greatest tolerance for risk.
 Upside down is the status of an estimated nine million homeowners who bought during the boom years but now owe more than their houses are worth. Consequently, they are stuck, unable to refinance or to sell even for what they owe.
 The new nomenclature is not all negative. Public-private organizations like the Center for New York City Neighborhoods have sprung up to help innocent or unwitting families deal with the housing crisis that has crashed down on them. 
 Counseling. In some communities, consumer-assistance agencies, including legal-services offices, provide trained advisers to help families avoid foreclosure in the first place, stave it off when threatened and encourage lenders to work with families to save their homes. 
 Implode-O-Meter is a Web site that tracks ''the housing finance breakdown: a saga of corruption, hypocrisy and government complicity.''
 SAR is a Suspicious Activity Reports, sent by banks to the F.B.I. when they suspect fraudulent transactions.
 Subprime Neediest Program is the $1 million fund established by The Times Neediest Cases Fund and the seven Neediest Cases agencies to help families who have lost all other hope -- those forced by foreclosures into homelessness. The program, managed by the Children's Aid Society, hopes to assist 200 New York families this year and to provide a model for other communities. Sometimes the families are not only unwitting but blameless, having dutifully paid their rent but are being evicted nonetheless because their landlords have been foreclosed. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); WRITERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



413 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POCKETBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Report Calls New Jersey No. 1 in High Taxes

BYLINE: By NATE SCHWEBER

 BODY:
IF paying taxes were an Olympic sport, New Jersey residents would be taking home the gold, according to a new report. 
 The Tax Foundation, a nonprofit research group in Washington that has kept tabs on taxes since the Great Depression, put New Jersey at the top of per capita taxes for a third year running. 
 The report confirmed what many residents have long felt in their pocketbooks. 
 ''Really, we don't see any reason why anybody would be surprised,'' said William Ahern, a spokesman for the Tax Foundation, which favors lower taxes. 
 New Jersey residents pay an average of 11.8 percent of their income to taxes, just edging out New York at 11.7 percent, according to the report. Connecticut is third with 11.1 percent. 
 That New Jersey topped New York, which the Tax Foundation found had the highest taxes from the late 1970s through 2005, is ''a travesty,'' said Jerry Cantrell, president of the New Jersey Taxpayers' Association. 
 The national average, according to the report, is 9.8 percent. 
 New Jersey eclipsed its eastern neighbor for the third year in a row in part because this year's report factored in the amount of New York city and state taxes paid by Jersey residents who cross the Hudson for work, said Gerald Prante, the report's author and a senior economist at the Tax Foundation.
 ''The tax decisions are not being made by New Jersey residents, but they still have to pay them,'' he said. 
 A spokesman from the New Jersey Department of the Treasury called the report ''myopic'' and said it ignored statistics that suggest the state has cut taxes to promote business and help its middle class. 
 In fiscal year 2008 New Jersey cut business taxes by $275 million, reduced taxes to working-class families by $36 million through the earned-income tax credit, and cut an additional $20 million through the repeal of certain sales taxes, said Tom Vincz, a spokesman for the department. The state also budgeted $600 million in aid to school districts in fiscal year 2009 to offset property taxes, he said.
 ''The report doesn't take into account the fact that this is a densely populated region of the country where services are not inexpensive,'' he said. ''And despite that we're reducing state spending, we're avoiding tax increases to balance the budget and we're cutting taxes to the largest degree possible in this kind of an environment.''
 High taxes are to be expected in a small state with 21 counties, 566 municipalities and 615 school districts, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. He said that what could come across as premium prices are often premium services. 
 ''New Jersey has an overall excellent K through 12 school system, but the cost per pupil is the highest in the country,'' he said. ''In some respects New Jersey residents are getting what they pay for.''
 Despite some advantages, high taxes put the state at a competitive disadvantage, said Patrick O'Keefe, director of research at the accounting and consulting firm of J. H. Cohn in Roseland. 
 He said that the taxes are ''basically a surcharge placed on all activity in the region.''
 The report's findings reminded many of their frustration with trying to overhaul the state's property tax system. The state has long had the dubious distinction of having the highest property taxes in the country, and one governor after another has vowed to change that. William G. Dressel Jr., executive director of the New Jersey League of Municipalities, said he was ''greatly disappointed'' by the Tax Foundation's report and it reminded him of his time working on a state committee two years ago that unsuccessfully tried to make changes in the property tax system. 
 ''Once and for all we were finally going to put a gold stake through this monster, the regressive nature of the property tax,'' he said. ''It didn't happen.''
 He added that until the New Jersey reforms its ''colonial'' property tax laws, ''I think our state's going to have a hold on No. 1 for a while.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN HIS VIEW: James W. Hughes of Rutgers says what seem to be premium prices are often premium services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); FAMILY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



414 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Our Idea of Gold

 BODY:
Halfway into the Summer Games in Beijing, Chinese athletes had won a lot more gold medals than Americans had. It was enough to make some sports nationalists yearn for Washington's intervention -- but not this page. 
 Americans have dominated the Olympics since the demise of the cold war sports machines in the former Soviet Union and East Germany. Since the 2000 Sydney Games, China has poured billions of dollars into its state sports program to produce more athletes who can win more gold medals in a wider range of sports. 
 Of course, China has resorted to tactics that would not be tolerated here: taking young children from their families to start years of rigorous training, refusing to let medal-winning athletes retire, and, it is alleged, doctoring passports to make pliable young gymnasts look old enough for the Olympics when they are not. 
 No wonder the head of the United States Olympic Committee told The Times's Harvey Araton that he expected China to be ''the dominant team at the Olympic Games for many, many, many years to come.'' 
 So be it. We like to root for the home team as much as anyone. But with the federal budget deep in the red, the economy in the doldrums, a broken military in need of repair, and enormous unmet domestic needs, we can think of a lot better places to invest federal resources than in building a sports machine. Let some rich benefactors augment the $130-million-a-year budget of the United States Olympic Committee.
 And if international respect is the goal, a collaborative, less arrogant diplomacy would help a lot more than winning medals. 
 If we are looking to invest in sports, we would be wiser to spend money on daily gym classes and after-school athletic programs. That would not produce a large crop of Olympians, but it would help combat the growing obesity epidemic among American youngsters and yield health benefits worth more than Olympic gold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ATHLETES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FAMILY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); OBESITY (62%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



415 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: A Bond Market, Starved for Sunshine

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IF we have learned anything from this unrelenting credit mess, it is that greater disclosure is needed if investors are to regain their trust in the financial system. Nowhere is this disclosure more urgent than in the $2.6 trillion municipal securities market, an arena where information is scant and investors must pay to view the financial filings that issuers do make. 
 To its credit, the Securities and Exchange Commission late last month proposed a rule change that would open these filings to the public. (Corporations' filings, of course, already are.) 
 The commission has invited comments on the proposal, which would include the creation of a central repository of municipal issuer filings, replacing the seven public and private entities that collect and control the information today. 
 It's hard to believe that a market this big remains such a disclosure backwater. More than 50,000 nonprofit issuers offer municipal securities, including states, cities, hospitals, turnpikes and other entities. Individual investors like the securities because the income they generate is usually tax-free. At the end of 2007, retail investors directly held 35 percent of this market; mutual funds held an additional 36 percent, the S.E.C. said.
 But minimal disclosure requirements leave these investors decidedly in the dark about issuers' financial health. Exhibit A for how this can harm investors is a recent development at the West Penn Allegheny Health System, a four-hospital system based in Pittsburgh that raised $750 million in revenue bonds in May 2007. 
 West Penn, which generated $1.1 billion in patient revenue in the nine months that ended in March, was formed in 2000. Its creation followed a 1998 bankruptcy filing by its predecessor, the Allegheny Health and Education Research Foundation, or Aherf. Some $555 million in debt was affected by the bankruptcy, the largest among nonprofit health care entities rated by Moody's Investors Service. 
 The health system's default ensnared MBIA, the giant bond insurer, which had backed $256 million in Aherf securities and lost $170 million on the failure. 
 Last year, the mess resurfaced when the Securities and Exchange Commission contended that MBIA had tried to mask the loss by setting up a sham reinsurance contract after learning of Aherf's problems. Without admitting or denying the accusations, MBIA paid a $50 million penalty to settle with the commission in January 2007. 
 West Penn began talking about raising capital in 2006. It wanted to reorganize its debt to reduce its interest costs, allowing the system to make much-needed capital investments, it said. 
 All three rating agencies opined on the West Penn bond offering, which came in May 2007. Fitch Ratings assigned West Penn's bonds a BB rating, saying the system had made ''significant financial and operational progress'' since its formation in 2000. The issue sold briskly at prices as high as $1,017 a bond, or just over par. 
 MBIA, which had insured some of the old debt that West Penn hoped to redeem with the new issue, didn't insure the new bonds. Months earlier, in October 2006, West Penn had urged MBIA to support its capital push, arguing that it was a ''great business recovery story that needs to continue.'' But MBIA declined; a spokesman would not say why. 
 EVEN as West Penn was telling MBIA that it had achieved significant revenue growth since 2000, the system was encountering difficulties. Revenues exceeded expenses by only $3.1 million in the quarter that ended September 2006, down from an excess of $5.3 million generated in the same period in 2005.
 But that quarterly statement wasn't filed publicly and still does not show up in the financials that West Penn has supplied to the organizations that maintain municipal-issuer information. Indeed, between Nov. 7, 2006, when it reported its June 30 results, and July 25, 2007, well after the bond issue was sold, West Penn made no filings. 
 To be sure, the offering circular given to investors ahead of the bond deal contained some figures from 2006. But it didn't provide details on the quarter that ended in September 2006 and contained no information about results generated in 2007. 
 In any case, trouble surfaced almost immediately after the May 2007 bond deal. That July, the health system announced that West Penn's chief executive had resigned over differences with the board. A new chief executive, Christopher T. Olivia, took the job last March. 
 Then, about three weeks ago, the system said an internal review had concluded that West Penn had overstated accounts receivable by roughly $73 million over an unspecified period. It will have to restate earnings as a result. 
 Fitch downgraded the health system's bonds one notch the next day and warned of further downgrades. Moody's also dropped its ratings. The bonds tumbled in value; last week they traded at $830 each.
 Thomas G. Chakurda, a West Penn spokesman, declined to answer any questions for this article, including why the system's September 2006 financial statements couldn't be found. West Penn barred reporters from listening to a conference call with investors in early August to discuss the restatement, saying the call was invitation-only. The company wouldn't provide a transcript of the call.
 A spokesman for the S.E.C. declined to comment, as is the commission's custom, when asked whether it is examining West Penn's restatement. But a person briefed on the matter, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters, said the commission was making inquiries. 
 If the S.E.C. wants to make the case that greater disclosure should be required of municipal issuers, the West Penn matter is certainly a fine brief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); REINSURANCE (66%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (53%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (85%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



416 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Fill 'Er Up at the Deep Fryer

BYLINE: By FRAN SILVERMAN

 BODY:
IN Redding, Conn., town hall is closed on Fridays to cut energy costs. In Westchester County and on Long Island, county employees are car-pooling if they have to travel to meetings. And in Bergen County, N.J., county workers are to be issued gas cards to limit how much they can pump into county vehicles.
 Across the region, local officials are changing their routines to offset rapidly rising energy costs, making big efforts, for instance, converting diesel-guzzling trucks to biofuels, and smaller gestures, like filling car tires with nitrogen, to help increase gas mileage. 
 ''Towns are feeling the pinch and trying to figure out ways to soften the blow,'' said Kevin Maloney, spokesman for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. ''Prices have gotten to the point where towns are more motivated to take some nontraditional actions.''
 The fuel cost increases have strained budgets, causing some towns to scale back services, scour budgets to look for savings and put off development projects -- all in an effort to avoid tax increases.
 In Northern New Jersey, Bergen County had to lay off 53 employees and cut back its Meals on Wheels deliveries to once a week.
 ''We are feeling it,'' County Executive Dennis McNerney said. ''Costs are creeping up constantly.''
 By law, the county can increase the budget by only 2.5 percent per year. Yet, in the past few months, the county, which purchases gas every six months and stores it in county tanks, has had to increase its $1.5 million gasoline budget three times, with an infusion of $23,600 in June and $60,000 in July, and $30,000 set for August. For 2008-9, the county increased its allotment for gasoline by about $500,000 for a $2,043,000 contract. 
 To help lower costs, the county intends to limit, for the first time -- to 180 gallons -- the amount of gas employees with county cars can receive each month.
 Anticipating the cost increases in heating fuel, the county is also building its own generator and considering installing solar panels on county buildings.
 In Westchester, county officials have turned to electric hybrid vehicles and vegetable oil to help lower fuel costs. Officials have replaced almost 50 percent of the county's 330 cars with hybrids and converted several larger vehicles, including trucks and a commuter bus, to run on vegetable oil. The oil comes from the county's parks department food concession stands and local restaurants that leave the greasy donations at three county filtering facilities where they are cleaned and processed.
 The county has also started filling the tires of its 200 public safety vehicles and 60 county cars with nitrogen, a move some say saves gasoline by maintaining proper inflation longer.
 It costs about $3,000 to convert trucks to vegetable oil, but officials say they can recoup the costs within two years.
 ''It's a balancing act in our budget,'' said Ralph L. Butler, the county's commissioner of public works. ''There are very few items that will save you $10 million. It's a little here and a little there.''
 To save money, Mr. Butler car-pooled recently to Albany for a meeting with members of the county executive's staff, and he found that the shared ride was productive in other ways.
 ''You can go back and forth on a lot of items, brainstorm on issues while you are all in the car together,'' he said.
 Suffolk County budgeted $14 million more for fuel costs in 2009 than in 2008.
 ''It is a major wallop to our budget and despite some of the actions we've taken to mitigate its impact, it is still sudden and steep and will require cuts to other parts of the budget,'' said Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive.
 To save on fuel, the county has purchased 30 hybrid cars and four hybrid buses, although they initially cost more.
 ''We are trying to prime the pump in the market so more will be made and prices will come down,'' said Mr. Levy, saying he wants the county to be part of the increased demand for hybrids.
 The county has also cut back on the number of trips it approves for staff travel to conferences and conventions, and it is replacing county cars after 150,000 miles, not 100,000 as in the past.
 The Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County, which is expecting a 40 percent increase in energy costs, has purchased 10 electric golf carts for use in its work compounds, charging them up overnight instead of gassing them up, and has converted several recycling trucks to run on biofuels.
 The town, said Supervisor John Venditto, is changing its mind-set. ''You become more mindful of not wasting energy,'' Mr. Venditto said. ''In years past, when you got up to go to a meeting on the other end of the building, you left your lights and air-conditioning on. Now you shut the lights off, lower the air. It's nice to be cold in the summer, but you don't have to be that cold.''
 At night, the lights are now out at town parks, and Mr. Venditto said he is also considering a four-day week for town employees.
 In Redding, officials decided to shut down the Connecticut town's offices on Friday beginning in June in anticipation of a 20 percent increase in energy costs, said First Selectwoman Natalie Ketchum.
 ''By closing we save fuel and increase employee productivity,'' Ms. Ketchum said.
 Still, Redding's controller, Larry Hutvagner, said it might not be enough savings if the price of oil continues its increase.
 ''We budgeted $2.75 a gallon for heating oil and gas. Who knows what it is today?'' Mr. Hutvagner said. ''We are going to have to do more to cut costs.''
 While town tanks were filled with gas and diesel in May, it will soon be time to fill them again, he said, adding that he is urging the town to lock in a price soon.
 ''Everyone is talking that something should happen in November to lower costs, but then there is the world oil crisis, and the question is: Is Iran going to attack IsraeI?'' Mr. Hutvagner said. ''I'm not a good gambler.''
 In the meantime, he has purchased fleece jackets for his staff to wear in the winter, when the thermostats will be set lower than they were last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALTERNATIVE FUELS: The Westchester Public Works Department uses this bus, which runs on vegetable oil, to educate children about the environment. John Venditto, the town supervisor in Oyster Bay, with one of the electric carts its public works department is using. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); TIRES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); MEALS ON WHEELS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



417 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET VENTURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Acres of Farmland And, Maybe, Profits

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
LIKE many others, Charles Gracey, a computer chip designer from California, has felt the sting of losing money in the financial markets, and he has watched with trepidation as home values have skidded. But now he has found what he thinks will be a better way to build his assets while improving his family's quality of life. 
 All it takes, it seems, is water, sunlight and the right kind of soil. (Sweat equity is optional and, if he wants, he can even pass along the everyday risks to someone else, too.)
 Last spring, Mr. Gracey, who goes by Chip, and his wife, Kristin, paid $1.59 million for a 105-acre walnut farm -- complete with a 37-year-old farmhouse -- in Red Bluff, Calif., about 125 miles north of Sacramento. The farm was already in operation, so all he had to do was move the family in and hire a management company to oversee the orchards. (Mr. Gracey, meanwhile, makes a two-hour drive twice a week to his technology business in Rocklin, where he used to live, and works from home the rest of the time.) 
 In late October, at harvest time, Mr. Gracey says, he expects a yield of 170 tons of walnuts, sellable on the open market at around $1.05 a pound. After taxes, fees and expenses, there should be a profit of around $115,000, which would be reinvested in the orchard, he said. At the same time, the property continues to appreciate in value. ''I could probably sell it for $200,000 more than what I bought it for,'' he said. ''That's a lot better than most other investments.''
 Indeed, farmland in general is considered an excellent diversifier: historically, the returns are negatively correlated with stocks but tend to track inflation. And these days, as many real estate sectors languish -- nationwide, the median home price fell 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the National Association of Realtors reported last week -- agricultural land is going strong. In an annual report released just this month, the United States Department of Agriculture said property values for farmland nationwide had risen 8.8 percent, on average, over 2007. 
 Of course, that means farmland is not exactly cheap for investors new to the market. The average price for an acre as of Jan. 1 was $2,350, a record, it said. The biggest jumps last year came in the Northern Plains, which includes Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. Higher prices for corn, wheat and soybeans helped push up values there by 15.5 percent, according to the report. 
 Industry experts say they expect no major shifts in prices, amid widespread concerns about global food shortages and a growing need for biofuels like corn ethanol and soybean biodiesel. A dwindling supply of farmland has also caused values to rise. 
 ''Five years ago, we were buying high-quality soybean land for $3,000 to $5,000 an acre, and today it's going for $6,000 to $7,000 an acre,'' said Murray R. Wise, the chief executive and chairman of the Westchester Group, based in Champaign, Ill., a manager of nearly $600 million of global farm tracts for investors. Nevertheless, he added, ''we believe that today's prices are still an attractive investment.''
 Glenn Kreuder, a corn and soybean farmer from Garden Grove, Iowa, has seen a growth in demand as well. Mr. Kreuder, who is also an investor and landlord, recently sold 70 acres in Wayne County, Iowa, for about $4,000 an acre, roughly double what he paid for it two or so years ago. At the same time, he has been able to raise rents charged to farmers. 
 ''Rents have actually doubled in the last two to three years,'' he said.
 There are a few ways for average investors to try to make money in agriculture. (Forget real estate investment trusts, though: farm-focused REITs don't exist.) They can buy the land and handle all the operations and farming themselves. Or they can hire a manager to do most of the farming chores but still be responsible for whatever profit or loss the farm produces, as Mr. Gracey, the computer chip designer, does. 
 (Management fees vary. In Northern California, for instance, owners typically pay $100 to $160 per farmable acre each year, in addition to paying any expenses, according to Mr. Gracey's broker, Sam Mud of Ag-Land Investment Brokers in Red Bluff.) 
 Investors can also rent out their property to farmers. Besides earning income, they may well ultimately sell it at a profit after it appreciates in value, as Mr. Kreuder did. Many farmers prefer to rent -- sometimes by the acre per year, sometimes for a flat fee or for a share of their crop revenue -- rather than own because it frees money to invest in their farming.
 ''Most of the people who buy from me are nonfarmers,'' Mr. Kreuder said, adding that some people may be initially reluctant to invest in farmland because they know little about agriculture. ''But it's probably one of the safest properties to rent,'' he said. ''If you advertised a property today for rent, you might get 30 or 40 calls -- there's always demand.''
 Those with deep pockets can invest with an institutional manager of agriculture real estate, like the Westchester Group or the Hancock Agricultural Investment Group in Boston, which is part of the Manulife Financial Corporation, the insurance and financial service company. Hancock oversees nearly 154,000 acres in the United States and Australia. Sixty percent of its land supports ''permanent'' crops like fruit- or nut-bearing trees and various vines, with the other 40 percent focused on ''annual'' row crops like cotton, rice, corn and soybeans, according to Jeffrey A. Conrad, the group's president.
 Because of its high minimum investment -- $50 million -- most of its clients are big institutions, like pension funds looking for alternative investments, he said. Hancock said its investors had returns of 14.4 percent, after fees, for 2007 and 26.2 percent, annualized, for the last three years. Since 1991, the annualized return has been 12.5 percent. 
 Mr. Conrad says his investors have benefited from the group's diverse portfolio. ''If you buy 640 acres in the Midwest and plant one or two crops, you're exposed to the weather of that particular area, and other risks,'' he said. ''We can build a diversified portfolio by region or crop types. We have a scale advantage.''
 Still, he said, investor interest spiked only fairly recently. ''It was a hard sell to get people interested in this asset class until the last 10 or 12 months,'' he said. 
 Mr. Wise of the Westchester Group agreed. ''I remember speaking to a large investment conference in London back in the late '80s,'' he said. ''There were 400 people in the audience, and when I spoke on agriculture, I swear 80 percent of them left the room. 
 ''Just a couple of weeks ago at another conference in London, there was interest from people from every corner of the world,'' he continued. ''We're in a new paradigm.''
 Returns at the Westchester Group -- where the minimum investment is $25 million for institutional accounts and $1 million for individuals -- have been in excess of 12 percent a year over the last 10 years, according to Mr. Wise. 
 While Mr. Gracey of Northern California is looking forward to high returns, he has already discovered the less tangible advantages to owning and living on a farm. ''The suburbs can be so oppressive -- people get on each other's nerves and everyone's on edge,'' he said. ''Here, everyone is just naturally nice because they're not stressed.''
 He says his two small children also seem happier. ''They can roam around,'' he said. ''It's like a gigantic park.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Gracey, a computer chip designer, recently bought a 105-acre walnut farm in Red Bluff, Calif., left and above left. He hired a management company to handle most operations. The Westchester Group manages farm tracts worldwide, including cornfields in Illinois, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND BELOW BY MICHAEL BURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE RIGHT, WESTCHESTER GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BIOFUELS (83%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); BIOMASS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (74%); TREE NUT FARMING (74%); ALCOHOLS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); INFLATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%); ETHANOL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



418 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: What's the Matter With Washington?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LIND. 
Michael Lind, the Whitehead senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of ''The American Way of Strategy.''

 BODY:
THE WRECKING CREW
 How Conservatives Rule
 By Thomas Frank
 369 pp. Metropolitan Books/ Henry Holt & Company. $25
 In ''The Wrecking Crew,'' the liberal journalist Thomas Frank tells the story of free-market ideologues who came to Washington to start a revolution and built a lucrative lobbying empire instead. Now a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, Frank established his reputation as the editor of The Baffler and then as the author of the best-selling ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' (2004) by combining two things absent from most liberal commentary: muckraking reporting and satiric wit. 
 Frank's gifts as a social observer are on display in his description of the contemporary Washington metro area: ''The airport designed by Eero Saarinen; the shopping mall so vast it dwarfs other cities' downtowns; the finely tuned high-performance cars zooming along an immaculate private highway; the masses of flowers in perfectly edged beds; the gas stations with Colonial Williamsburg cupolas; the men all in ties and starched, buttoned-down shirts; the street names, even, recalling our cherished American values: Freedom, Market, Democracy, Tradition and Signature Drives; Heritage Lane; Founders Way; Enterprise, Prosperity and Executive Park Avenues; and a Chivalry Road that leads, of course, to Valor Court.'' 
 The growth of government as an industry, Frank notes, has transformed the capital region: ''The richest county in America isn't in Silicon Valley or some sugarland preserve of Houston's oil kings; it is Loudoun County, Va., a fast-growing suburb of Washington, D.C. The second richest county is Fairfax, Va., the next suburb over from Loudoun; the third, sixth and seventh richest counties are also suburbs of the capital. '' 
 While there were millionaires in Washington in the past, ''in those days the millions almost always came from somewhere else.'' Since the 1980s, Washington's ''millionaires were homegrown, and the template for Washington housing was ostentatious, aristocratic and gargantuan.'' Frank's Washington ''is a perfect realization of the upper-bracket dream of a white-collar universe, where economies run on the information juggling of the 'creative class' and where manufacturing is something done by filthy brutes in far-off lands.'' And in Washington the dominant white-collar figure is the lobbyist. 
 The increasing supply of lobbyists, Frank observes, ''should have driven the price of lobbying down, not up. The most credible explanation is that clients grew more and more confident that their lobbyists could deliver something of value in exchange for their fees. The reason companies started buying, in other words, was that Congress began selling.'' Special-interest earmarks in legislation by members of Congress have exploded in number, while careers in elected or appointed office are apprenticeships for lobbying jobs. 
 Frank blames conservative Republicans for the recent cancerous growth of the lobbying industry for two reasons. First, right-wingers like Tom DeLay saw K Street as another front alongside Pennsylvania Avenue in the war on liberal government. Even more important, according to Frank, is the contempt for government shared by conservatives who believe that ''the liberal state has no more claim to legitimacy than the thief who robs you at gunpoint.'' In other words, it's O.K. to steal from robbers. Treating the scandals that brought them down as an all but inevitable result of their ideological politics, Frank takes DeLay, the convicted Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff and many of their allies on a perp walk through his pages. 
 Frank's analysis of why there are so many libertarian think tanks in a country with so few libertarians is dead on: ''The reason that we have so many well-funded libertarians in America these days is not because libertarianism suddenly acquired an enormous grass-roots following, but because it appeals to those who are able to fund ideas. Libertarianism is a politics born to be subsidized.'' 
 Frank's portrait of the conservative movement, however, sacrifices complexity to caricature. ''Conservatism has always been an expression of American business.'' Conservatism equals libertarianism equals plutocracy. According to Frank, Grover Cleveland Democrats in the 1890s and Grover Norquist Republicans in the 1990s are different incarnations of the same eternal evil: the subordination of democracy to money. 
 Frank dates the beginning of the modern lobbying era to 1995 and the arrival of Gingrich Republican idealists. That may be so, but the father of Washington lobbying was Franklin Roosevelt's former aide Thomas Corcoran, known as Tommy the Cork, a private figure so powerful that President Harry Truman ordered the F.B.I. to wiretap him. Dan Rostenkowski, the powerful and corrupt Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee in the 1980s and early 1990s, preceded Jack Abramoff into prison. Frank holds up a minor Indiana congressman, David McIntosh, who pushed lobbying reforms before quitting government to become a lobbyist, as an example of conservative hypocrisy. But Fred Dutton, Robert Kennedy's campaign manager in 1968 and the champion of a ''new politics'' uniting suburban idealists, college students and racial minorities (sound familiar?), went on to become a lobbyist for Mobil Oil and Saudi Arabia, earning the nickname ''Dutton of Arabia.'' 
 Missing from ''The Wrecking Crew'' is any acknowledgment of what, from a left perspective, should be considered good news: the defeat of the antigovernment right in most major policy battles, from Social Security privatization to private school vouchers. Bush's plan for Social Security was so unpopular it never came to a vote in the Republican Congress, which enacted (to be sure, with payoffs to pharmaceutical companies) the Medicare prescription drug benefit, the biggest increase in government involvement in the health care industry in the United States since Medicare's creation. Incapable of overthrowing big government, even when they controlled all three branches, the right has been limited to tinkering with it. 
 Indeed, one might argue that the defeat of the attempted libertarian revolution puts the money-making schemes of Frank's villains in a different light. Former young conservative firebrands like Abramoff settled for enriching themselves precisely because they were unable to repeal the New Deal. 
 But ''The Wrecking Crew'' is a polemic, not a dissertation. With rare exceptions like John Kenneth Galbraith, conservatives -- from Juvenal and Alexander Pope to H. L. Mencken, Tom Wolfe and P. J. O'Rourke -- have been the best satirists. In Thomas Frank, the American left has found its own Juvenal. Consider his update of a 1945 civics primer, ''We Are the Government,'' which followed the cheerful wanderings of a dime that paid for a variety of enlightened New Deal regulations. In Frank's contemporary version, the dime travels from a private government contractor to a trade association, which ''gives the dime to a Washington consultant who specializes in fighting federal agencies, and this man launches challenge after challenge to the studies that the agency is using. It takes many years for the agency to make its way through the flak thrown up by this clever fellow. Meanwhile, with his well-earned dime, he buys himself a big house with nice white columns in front.'' On Chivalry Road or Valor Court, no doubt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (70%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Wrecking Crew, The (Book)>; Wrecking Crew, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



419 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; CITY PEOPLE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Uptown Boulevardier

BYLINE: By CAROLINE H. DWORIN

 BODY:
AT 91 years old, Dr. Samuel Dvoskin has spent the better part of a century running and walking the streets of New York. A retired physician and an amateur botanist, he leads tours at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. He walks to the garden from his home in Washington Heights.
 One recent muggy morning, a Bronx-bound Dr. Dvoskin stepped out of his apartment on his way to an exhibition on Charles Darwin. A slight, slim, tanned gentleman, he wore a white T-shirt, short shorts and a coy little pair of Chinese slippers. 
 ''It's not a very attractive walk, in many ways,'' he said, ''but if there's something -- a piece of grass, a tree!'' 
 The walk is all-weather, all-season from his home in Castle Village, a complex of cliff-side towers overlooking the Hudson, near 181st Street and just north of the George Washington Bridge. He walks through Washington Heights into Inwood (taking a subway elevator down at 190th Street to Broadway's lower level), northeast on Nagle Avenue to 206th Street, and then over the University Heights Bridge to Fordham Road in the Bronx. 
 The trip, which takes him a little more than an hour, is about three and a half miles long and includes a few steep hills and desolate blocks through which few people stroll for sport. If he takes classes at the garden, Dr. Dvoskin may make the journey several times a week.
 On hot days, he keeps in the shadow of the el, as No. 1 trains clatter high above Nagle Avenue and salsa music pumps from cars. He stops often, not to catch his breath, but to tug at a handful of leaves from overhead, or to inspect a seedpod, bestowing Latin names -- here chenopodium album, there, sophora japonica. Dr. Dvoskin's New York is one punctuated with green.
 From a grocery store in Inwood, its sidewalk stands a flush of yellow and red, he examined a yucca root, then turned his attention to a row of newly planted trees, fact-checking their name tags with the focus of an academic. 
 ''It'll be a beautiful block in 10 years,'' he said. 
 Samuel Dvoskin was born to a different New York, in 1917, at the now-defunct Fordham Hospital. He grew up poor, speaking Yiddish, moving about the borough ''one step ahead of the landlord,'' he said. Dirt roads traversed Throgs Neck, and trolley tracks etched the streets. His education -- City College, class of 1937, followed by medical school at Columbia -- was supplemented by childhood trips to the botanical gardens.
 Before retiring in the 1970s, he cared for all manner of patients, from rich politicos to the very poor. He treated presidents of the Philippines and the Dominican Republic, and he remembers Eva Peron's henchmen standing about the office, guns tucked into their pockets. As a physician for the State Department of Health, he investigated the death of Andy Warhol in 1987.
 Through all of it, he worked his body with the same fervent drive as he worked his mind.
 ''It used to be,'' Dr. Dvoskin said as a runner sped by on the University Heights Bridge, over a narrow stretch of the Harlem River, ''I could beat anybody.'' In his younger days, he ran 10 to 20 miles in a stint and embarked on monthlong escapades to the Virgin Islands to ''live off the land.'' In the Southwest desert, he biked in a sombrero beneath the white-hot sun. 
 As he started walking along Fordham Road, a heavy rain began. ''This place, at night, is a ghost town,'' he said. ''I used to move a lot faster, but even then, you can't beat the speed of a bullet. The older you are, the more pigeonlike you become.'' His protection: dress as poor as one can; keep to daylight hours; travel well-trafficked streets.
 At the Grand Concourse, the Bronx's great boulevard, he stopped and looked south through the rain. The street was iridescent, a slick sea of sound and color, and filled with the tops of many umbrellas. Along with his energy, his constant drive to move, comes a certain self-contained economy in traveling by foot rather than by train. His Chinese slippers cost $1 and will last for several months.
 ''Oh, why I need to do it, I don't know,'' he said of his frugal method of transportation and his attire. ''I like to see if I can make it, if I can survive on very little. But knowledge, you see, now that intrigues me. Once you get hooked, you become a prober of the unknown -- you find an answer -- and it's like nothing else.''
 When Dr. Dvoskin reached the garden, the rain had stopped. He walked to the LuEsther T. Mertz Library through a colonnade of tulip trees and up into an ice-cold room. Because of the weather, it was almost empty, but there he lingered, peering into glass cases at notes scrawled in Darwin's hand. 
 Dr. Dvoskin, in short shorts and slippers still moist from the rain, spoke excitedly, brilliantly, about the Madagascar orchid and pollinaria and Linnaeus and cross-pollination with the enthusiasm he might have felt when he stood there as a child, 80 years before.
 The years have done nothing to slow his mind.
 ''I must confess,'' he said, lowering his voice, ''I know places in the garden where I get the persimmons at the best time. And, sometimes, I eat them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I used to move a lot faster,'' Dr. Samuel Dvoskin, 91, said of his walk to the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); RUNNING (78%); BOTANY (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



420 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Phelps Wins Record Eighth in Relay

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Beijing 

 BODY:
 In addition to having an action-comic wingspan, Michael Phelps is wired. He knows certain things soon after they happen. They either arrive on the electronic gadget of his choice, or people tell him. Either way, this somewhat homesick young man knows what is happening back in the United States. 
 His eighth gold medal had barely been placed around his neck Sunday at mid-day when he disclosed what had happened in his home town of Baltimore an hour or two earlier. 
 On Saturday night -- there is a 12-hour time difference -- hundreds of Ravens fans had stayed around after a pre-season football game to watch Phelps's triumph in the relay race. Phelps was chortling about it, as a harbinger of swimming's growth in the United States. He had been seen in Yankee Stadium. In the ballpark in Cincinnati. He was big on the scoreboards of America.
 ''People all over the place, they're going out to eat and watching swimming,'' Phelps bubbled at a press conference at the Water Cube. 
 ''The goal I have is a work in progress, to take it where I want it to be.''
 Phelps has great hopes for increasing the visibility of his sport in the United States between Olympiads -- and good luck with that. However, he has done well with his goals so far. Although he would not proclaim his hopes for these Summer Games, he obviously came here to win eight gold medals, and he did. 
 ''Everything was accomplished,'' he said Sunday.
 The eighth gold medal arrived with Phelps, swimming the butterfly, powering the United States back into the lead in the third leg of the 4x100-meter medley relay, helping to set another world record, this one of 3 minutes 29.34 seconds. 
 Phelps is now one of a kind, breaking Mark Spitz's record of seven gold medals in swimming in Munich in 1972. No other Olympian has ever won eight, or seven, in a single Games. He has 14 career gold medals, also a record. 
 Now begins the debate. Is Phelps the greatest Olympian ever? Statistically, in terms of sheer output, of course he is. Eight is a full dinner set (as Martina Navratilova said when she came home with her eighth gold, engraved plate from Wimbledon singles; she added a ninth in case one was tarnished or lost).
 Phelps has a full set of medals, eight being the lucky number among the Chinese. Eight could also be lucky in America, what with the $1 million bonus from Speedo, one of Phelps's sponsors, and other goodies sure to fall in his lap.
 Phelps has said that if he and his coach, Bob Bowman, were in it for the money, they would have chosen a different sport. But there is considerable evidence that he is not as supple on terra firma as he is in H2O.
 Anyway, he has his eight gold medals, and this is a magnificent accomplishment. But is there any need to install him as the greatest Olympian ever, compared with Jim Thorpe or Jesse Owens or Carl Lewis or Al Oerter or Jackie Joyner-Kersee or Spitz, just to name a few Yanks who have had their moments in the sun? 
 And what about Eric Heiden, who won five gold speedskating medals in the 1980 Winter Games in Lake Placid, N.Y., at distances of 500, 1,000, 1,500, 5,000 and 10,000 meters? Having seen great athletes like Bonnie Blair and Johann Olav Koss unable to blend short and long distances, I would rank Heiden's performance right up there with Phelps's athletically. But eight beats five the last time I looked. 
 In the first eight decades of the modern Games, nobody won seven gold medals like Spitz, partially because training, schedules and incentives were not the same. Now that a television network (NBC) calls the tune on prime-time events, it is possible, and economically viable, for the greatest athlete or greatest swimmer to space out the gold medals.
 In the past perhaps there was even a lack of imagination, or gall, that might have led athletes to seek more medals, more statistical levels. In 1988, the now-notorious baseball player Jose Canseco achieved the 40-40 level of home runs and stolen bases, a monstrous blend of power and speed. At a dinner after the season, the aging Mickey Mantle drawled, ''If I knew it was going to be such a big deal, I would've done it four or five times myself.''
 Nobody would make that jest about Michael Phelps. He is where no Olympic athlete has ever been. He achieved his set of eight by tossing the desperation pass when all else failed. 
 On Saturday in the 100 butterfly, with an extra heave of his powerful shoulders, he outclawed Milorad Cavic of Serbia in the final millimeters in one of the great finishes in any Olympic event, given the stakes. Phelps had fallen seriously behind and knew he needed to do something, the way Oksana Baiul of Ukraine dared throw in extra moves to win the figure skating gold medal in 1994. 
 Phelps has already promised to keep accumulating medals in London four years from now. Right now he wants to hug his mom, go home, see his pals from junior high school, sleep in his own bed. He's that uncomplicated, although he does have grandiose hopes for making swimming more popular. He has more medals in one Olympics than anybody in history. Put that on the scoreboards of America.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 12 about the record-breaking swimming performances at the Beijing Olympics referred imprecisely to the $1 million performance bonus pledged to Michael Phelps by one of his sponsors, Speedo. While Phelps did indeed receive the money after winning eight gold medals, the benchmark Speedo set was that he would get the bonus once he tied Mark Spitz's record of seven gold medals at the 1972 Munich Olympics. The error was repeated in a sports article on Aug. 14, a Sports of The Times column on Aug. 15, a front-page article on Aug. 16, a Sports of The Times column in some copies on Aug. 17 and a sports article on Aug. 18.
An article on Aug. 12 about the record-breaking swimming performances at the Beijing Olympics referred imprecisely to the $1 million performance bonus pledged to Michael Phelps by one of his sponsors, Speedo. While Phelps did indeed receive the money after winning eight gold medals, the benchmark Speedo set was that he would get the bonus once he tied Mark Spitz's record of seven gold medals at the 1972 Munich Olympics. The error was repeated in a sports article on Aug. 14, a Sports of The Times column on Aug. 15, a front-page article on Aug. 16, a Sports of The Times column in some copies on Aug. 17 and a sports article on Aug. 18.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Phelps, left, with his teammates in the 4x100-meter medley relay, from left, Brendan Hansen, Jason Lezak and Aaron Peirsol. Three of Phelps's record eight golds came in relays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); SPORTS (74%); SWIMMING (74%); TENNIS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (69%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



421 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: A New Generation Moves On, But Not Too Far

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
THERE are some New York neighborhoods where the population is expected to be heavily Asian-American -- say, in Chinatown, or in Flushing, Queens, or in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.
 Those areas have long been defined by the first-generation immigrants from China and Korea who fill the busy streets lined with ethnic markets and restaurants.
 But developers and brokers recently have noticed that their children -- mostly young professionals -- are now at the heart of a subtle demographic shift in Long Island City and downtown Brooklyn, two rapidly changing neighborhoods on their way to gentrification.
 Asian-Americans account for 15 to 50 percent of the initial sales in some of the new condominiums under construction in those neighborhoods. The numbers are significant because Asians account for only 10 percent of the city's population. 
 At first, the numbers seemed to grow organically, but some developers are now marketing heavily in the local Chinese and Korean media to better ride the trend.
 This is not to say that satellite Chinatowns or Koreatowns are expected to emerge in either place. On the contrary, the relatively high concentrations of Asians moving to these neighborhoods may just be a sign that like their counterparts who grew up in the early-20th-century Italian and Jewish enclaves on the Lower East Side, these young Asian-Americans have more buying power than their parents' generation and they are using it to meld into mainstream New York.
 Brokers say that many of these buyers have chosen downtown Brooklyn and Long Island City because their parents still live in the immigrant Brooklyn and Queens neighborhoods where they grew up, and they can buy in high-rises and still be near family. In the case of downtown Brooklyn, some buyers have chosen it because it is just a quick trip across the Manhattan Bridge from Chinatown.
 William Lai, a buyer at Toren, a 38-story tower under construction at 150 Myrtle Avenue in downtown Brooklyn, said he had persuaded his older sister, Helen, and his younger brother, Albert, to buy there as well. But he was nonetheless surprised to learn that half the people who have so far signed contracts for apartments in the building are Asian. (Roughly half of the building's 240 units have been sold, and occupancy is expected next summer.)
 ''That's a shocker to me because it's not like Eighth Avenue in Brooklyn, where there are Chinese people everywhere, or any building in Chinatown, where it's probably 90 percent Chinese,'' said Mr. Lai, 31, who grew up in Sheepshead Bay and now lives in a Manhattan rental.
 But, Albert Lai said, ''it kind of makes sense when you think about it -- it's close to Chinatown as well as a lot of Brooklyn neighborhoods where there are a lot of Asians.'' He rents in Long Island City, but he added, ''My heart is in Brooklyn, since I was born and raised there.'' 
 All three Lai siblings were drawn to the building for probably the same reasons as non-Asians: expansive views of Brooklyn and Manhattan, high-end finishes and appliances and more space for less money than in comparable buildings in Manhattan. One-bedrooms with 738 square feet are selling for $531,000 to $631,000, and 654-square-foot studios are listed for $458,000. Similar condos in Manhattan would sell for at least 30 percent more.
 Albert Lai said his parents, who still live in Sheepshead Bay with his sister, were delighted that all three siblings would be living in the same building. He said the elder Lais, who immigrated from China and don't speak much English, seldom ventured to Queens or Manhattan to see him or his brother. ''It was more the other way around, us going to see them, which is how it should be,'' he said. ''Now we'll be a lot closer for visiting.''
 Historically, American-born Asians have been encouraged to move out of the ethnic enclaves where they grew up, said Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies at Hunter College. But they have tended to move to suburban communities on Long Island and in New Jersey, where they can find good schools, enough ethnic markets to cater to their needs and, when the time comes, enough space to accommodate aging parents, he said.
 ''Until now, buying a home tended to be very family oriented,'' he added, ''and living in a nice building with a lot of amenities was not as stressed.'' So the fact that young Asian-Americans are now buying in condo high-rises that come with fitness centers, spas and swimming pools is a shift, ''and in some ways becoming more mainstream.''
 Brokers and sales directors at these new developments said that their Asian-American buyers had tended to be singles or young couples and that they were primarily buying studios and one-bedrooms.
 ''They're generally very savvy buyers,'' said Melina Starr, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman who is handling sales for the Powerhouse in Long Island City. ''They've read all the papers, visited all the Web sites and they're very tough negotiators.'' 
 The Powerhouse will have 176 units when it is completed early next year. The building is 45 percent sold, and about 25 percent of the buyers to date have been Asian-American, even though the building has not directly marketed in the Asian community, according to Ms. Starr. 
 At Oro, a 40-story tower in downtown Brooklyn with 303 units, more than 50 percent of the units have sold, and about 15 percent of the buyers have been Asian-American, according to Samantha Behringer, also from Douglas Elliman and Oro's sales manager. ''I hate to generalize like this,'' she said, ''but they are a demographic that seems to very much know what to buy and where to buy.'' 
 She added that while other buyers might come back for several visits before making a decision, ''they do things quickly; they sign contracts immediately when they know that they want it.''
 Sales managers say that in addition to young professionals, they have encountered families who have bought multiple apartments so that more than one generation can live in the building.
 Florence Clutch, a Halstead Property broker and the sales manager at the Fifth Street Lofts in Long Island City, where about 20 percent of the buyers are Asian-American, said one young couple had bought two units in anticipation of starting a family, at which time their parents could come from Taiwan to help care for the baby and live in the second unit. In another example, an older couple bought two apartments, one for themselves and one for their children when they graduate from college.
 When Zhen Ma and her husband, Gary Lu, visited open houses at several Long Island City developments recently, they noticed many more Asians than at the open houses they had been to in Manhattan. ''It's really hard to not notice it,'' she said. But the higher ratio of Asians did not factor into their decision to buy a two-bedroom at the Powerhouse. 
 They are both immigrants from China and work at investment banks in Midtown Manhattan. They have rented apartments in Manhattan, and in Woodside and Long Island City, Queens, where they now live. ''We've gone through all the new condos in the area,'' Ms. Ma said. ''And we know in terms of price and the amount of space, this is our best shot.''
 At Toren in downtown Brooklyn, interest from Asian-Americans was ''instantaneous'' when the sales office opened, said Joseph Ferrara, a principal in BFC Partners, the developer. ''It started off almost like a karmic thing,'' he said. ''But they were exactly the target audience we were marketing to: professionals under the age of 44.''
 Many of the buyers, including William Lai, were taken thereby Vincent Wong, a fellow Sheepshead Bay native and an independent broker who later joined Toren's marketing team.
 The project has also started running large ads in the Chinese language newspaper Sing Tao and The Korea Times. Last month, the building held a reception in its sales office for about 100 members of the Chinese-American Real Estate Association. ''The event was a great way to educate a lot of our brokers about an area we're not that familiar with,'' said Kathy Tsao, president of the association and the manager of Douglas Elliman's Flushing branch.
 In Long Island City, a high-rise condominium being built by a Korean-American development company seems to have put the area on the map for the Korean-American community. Star Tower, a 25-story building billed as Long Island City's ''tallest luxury residence,'' is the latest project for the Roe Development Corporation, a real estate business started by B. J. Roe, a Korean immigrant.
 ''He's a famous person in the Korean community,'' said Julie Yi, a Douglas Elliman agent. ''And now because of Star Tower, many more Korean people know about Long Island City.'' She said she had fielded many more requests from Korean clients asking to visit Long Island City properties since Star Tower started advertising in the Korean media a few months ago.
 About half of the building's 180 units have sold, and about 25 percent of the buyers have been Asian-American, according to Roe Development. 
 Renee Lee is a 28-year-old Chinese-American who works in the fashion industry and was among the first to sign a contract at Star Tower. She said she had been looking at Fusion, another Roe project right near Star Tower, but most of its units were two-bedrooms and beyond her price range. 
 ''But I really liked how Roe Development is a family-run business and they're not as big as other companies out there,'' she said.
 Ms. Lee rents an apartment near South Street Seaport, and she described the area around Star Tower, on 42nd Road near Queens Plaza, as ''a little underdeveloped, but up and coming.'' 
 The building's Web site says that coming attractions include a large mixed-use complex by Tishman Speyer, a W hotel and a 1.5-acre public park. 
 Robert Roe, a son of B. J. Roe and a vice president at Roe Development, said that while the company had marketed Star Tower in the Korean media, it was also reaching for a much broader demographic.
 ''We're trying to create a very high-end brand and have it be like what you would find in an upscale Manhattan project,'' he said.
 He said one reason so many young Asians were buying Long Island City condos might be that ''Asian buying power has grown over time and there are a lot more professional Asian-Americans out there now.''
 Pyong Gap Min, a sociology professor at Queens College, said this in fact was the case. ''When you see census data,'' he explained, ''it shows that United States-born Asian-Americans move into the mainstream economy. They don't do small business and many of them have six-digit incomes and they want to stay close to their workplace in Manhattan.''
 Mr. Ferrara said one thing he had noticed with many of the Chinese-American buyers at Toren was that while they might have grown up in the United States, they still clung to some Chinese cultural tenets. 
 That includes, for example, avoiding floors with the number 4 because the number sounds like the word for death and is considered bad luck, and picking floors with the number 8 because it sounds like the word for fortune. ''All our apartments on the 8th, 18th and 28th floors are gone,'' he said. ''So even though they're young and very contemporary, they're still superstitious and really rooted in their ethnicity.''
 But as to whether that means downtown Brooklyn or Long Island City will soon see Asian groceries sprouting on their commercial strips, Charles Lai, the executive director of the Museum of Chinese in America, doesn't think so.
 ''Is there going to be a noodle shop opening? Maybe one,'' said Mr. Lai, who is not related to the siblings who bought at Toren. ''But they're probably going to want much more cosmopolitan Pan-Asian variety, and of course, Starbucks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BROTHER KNOWS BEST: William Lai, above right, persuaded his brother, Albert Lai, and his sister, Helen Lai (not pictured), to follow his lead and buy at Toren in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GOING UP: A rendering of Toren rising in downtown Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BFC PARTNERS)
 CAPTIVATED BY QUEENS: Zhen Ma and her husband, Gary Lu, above, bought a two-bedroom at the Powerhouse in Long Island City. Renee Lee, left, in the sales office for Star Tower in Long Island City, where she was one of the first to sign a contract.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



422 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2067 words

HEADLINE: Misers in Disguise: A Dozen Unlikely Fuel Sippers

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
IN any article about gasoline prices, the phrase ''pain at the pump'' seems unavoidable. But that cliche could use some work. ''Pain'' is stubbing your toe. A $100 fill-up for an S.U.V. is like extracting your wallet through your spinal column, using a rusty fuel nozzle as a liposuction device. 
 To relieve the pressure, Americans are feeling their way from trucks to cars, or from traditional S.U.V.'s to smaller crossovers. To help shine some light on that path, The New York Times has compiled a list of fuel-saving models that are compelling for reasons that go beyond fuel economy. 
 This is more than a roster of the highest-mileage cars, which is populated mainly by subcompacts and small hybrids. While small economy cars certainly have an appeal, especially with gas prices in the $4 range, not every family is ready to go cold turkey and trade the S.U.V. for a tiny econobox. So the mission here is to present fuel-saving options in a full range of categories. 
 In that vein, I felt no pressing need to mention the usual fuel-saving suspects like the Honda Civic and Fit or the Toyota Prius and Corolla (or the tiny Smart, which tends to get less mileage than meets the eye). Praising those economy-car kings is too easy, like hustling Derek Jeter swimsuit photos at Yankee Stadium. In addition, some fuel misers like the Prius are in such demand that potential buyers are likely to end up on waiting lists or paying the full sticker price (and possibly much more).
 But small-car buyers who don't follow the herd have a range of options, from subcompacts like the Chevrolet Aveo, Toyota Yaris and Hyundai Accent to compacts like the Chevrolet Cobalt, Ford Focus, Dodge Caliber, Kia Spectra and Subaru Impreza.
 Beyond the likely suspects, the vehicles that follow are less obvious penny-pinchers, yet each ranks at or near the top of its class in fuel economy. The picks include a hybrid and two clean-diesel models, and also conventional gasoline models that suit a range of budgets and tastes -- including a sporty coupe, a minivan, a pickup, a full-size S.U.V. and even a surprisingly efficient 430-horsepower sports car. 
 The figures are from a Web site operated by the Environmental Protection Agency, fueleconomy.gov. Vehicles are equipped with automatic transmissions except as noted. Annual fuel costs are based on 15,000 miles a year at prices of $3.96 a gallon for regular gasoline, $4.21 for premium and $4.60 for diesel.
 SENSIBLY SENSUOUS 
 HONDA ACCORD COUPE 
 BASE PRICE: $23,330
 M.P.G. RATING: 21 city, 30 highway, 24 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $16.48 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,477 
 Of families, it's sometimes said that one sibling got all the looks. A callous assessment, but it describes the Accord coupe, whose alluring profile only accentuates the warty visage of the Accord sedan. 
 Styling aside, the two-door Accord lets a driver present a sporty, devil-may-care face while hiding his inner cheapskate. With the base 4-cylinder engine (2.4 liters, 190 horsepower), the Accord attains 30 m.p.g. on the highway with room for four adults and their gear. Sure, a Ford Mustang V-6 will go faster, but at 24 m.p.g. on the highway, it's a relative guzzler.
 THE ANTI-MINIVAN
 MAZDA 5 
 BASE PRICE: $18,645
 M.P.G. RATING: 21 city, 27 highway, 23 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $17.20 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,584 
 While the sporty Mazda 3 sedan and hatchback have received plenty of attention, the 5 is often overlooked. But this compact Euro-style van stretches a gallon further than any sliding-door rival. The affordable Mazda carries six people in three rows and neatly outhandles a maxi-size minivan. 
 When the 5 first went on sale, mileage was a bit disappointing. But for 2008 Mazda retuned the engine and added a five-speed automatic, raising fuel economy by 2 m.p.g. -- even as the ratings for most '08 models dropped under the E.P.A.'s revised test procedures.
 UNDERCOVER HYBRID
 TOYOTA CAMRY HYBRID
 BASE PRICE: $26,310
 M.P.G. RATING: 33 city, 34 highway, 34 combined 
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $11.64 (regular fuel) 
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $1,746
 The Prius may be the mileage champ and a rolling billboard for its owners' green attitude, yet I'd argue that the low-profile gas-electric Camry sedan is the best all-around hybrid for price, roominess, mileage and performance.
 The Camry cuts the fuel bill better than any car in this group; the owner who drives 15,000 miles a year will spend just $35 a week on gas. 
 With the hybrid system's net combined gas-electric horsepower of 187, the Camry goes from a stop to 60 miles an hour in a snappy 7.7 seconds. That's a full second quicker than a 4-cylinder gasoline Camry and nearly three seconds quicker than a Prius.
 LONG-DISTANCE RUNNER
 CHEVROLET CORVETTE
 BASE PRICE: $46,950
 M.P.G. RATING: 16 city, 26 highway, 19 combined 
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $22.16 (premium fuel) 
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $3,322 
 In this group, the Corvette stands out like Ted Nugent in a fur loincloth at an animal-rights rally. But for those seeking near-supercar performance, the Corvette can burn rubber without shredding your conscience. 
 For barely $50,000, 'Vette buyers get a Ferrari-fighter than hits 60 m.p.h. in just over four seconds and tops out at a cool 190 m.p.h. Yet burbling along with the manual transmission in sixth gear, the lightweight 'Vette can genuinely cover 26 miles on a gallon of gas. 
 Of course, if you regularly summon the car's 430 horsepower you'll pay for the pleasure. But when the road is long and your credit-card limit is short, it's good to know that a Corvette can serve the cause of conservation.
 CONSERVING CROSSOVER
 TOYOTA RAV4 V-6
 BASE PRICE: $22,245 
 M.P.G. RATING: 19 city, 26 highway, 24 combined.
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $16.48 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,935 
 For S.U.V. owners eager to downsize, but who still want a vehicle with reasonable utility, the RAV4 may be a smart place to land.
 Those who recall the original RAV4 as a cute trucklet for college sophomores may not realize how roomy and grown-up the third-generation model has become. The base RAV4 has a 4-cylinder engine, but even the conservation-minded might consider Toyota's 3.5-liter V-6, which not only produces 269 horsepower but is one of the most fuel-efficient 6's available. The 19/26 mileage rating for a RAV4 with all-wheel drive virtually matches the 19/27 of the 4-cylinder RAV4, yet the V-6 pumps out 103 more horsepower. 
 The V-6 RAV4 zips from a stop to 60 m.p.h. in just 6.4 seconds. That kind of performance, combined with surprisingly gung-ho handling, makes the RAV4 one of the most entertaining models to wear a Toyota badge. 
 RETRO ROLLER SKATE
 MINI COOPER
 BASE PRICE: $18,700
 M.P.G. RATING: 26 city, 34 highway, 29 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $14.52 (premium fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,179 
 Since its debut in 2001, the BMW-designed Mini Cooper reminded people that small cars don't have to be dull boxes of high-fiber virtue: its British-retro style is aging well, and its cheeky handling is like a balm of youth. 
 While a well-optioned Mini can get expensive, keeping it fueled is relatively cheap, especially for the 118-horsepower nonturbo model. (The manufacturer's recommendation of premium-grade gas casts a small shadow, though, over the sunny picture.) 
 For 2008, the latest Clubman model opens a rear-hinged door (and an expanded rear space) to new Mini fans. 
 EFFICIENT ATHLETE
 BMW 328i 
 BASE PRICE: $33,175
 M.P.G. RATING: 19 city, 28 highway, 22 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $19.12 (premium fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,873
 As with Honda's legendary command of 4-cylinder engines, BMW is known for its mastery of the in-line6, from which it extracts maximum performance, smoothness and efficiency. 
 Offered as a sedan, coupe, convertible or wagon, the 328i can't match the rocket-sled sensations of the twin-turbo 335i. But the 328i feels stronger than its 230 horsepower suggests, and returns 2 m.p.g. more than its brawny brother.
 In a world teeming with 400- to 600-horsepower performance guzzlers -- including a few from BMW -- the 328i is a reminder that a great sport sedan doesn't have to swill to thrill.
 BOX SEATS
 FORD FLEX
 BASE PRICE: $28,995
 M.P.G. RATING: 17 city, 24 highway, 19 combined 
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $20.84 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $3,124
 In photos, the Ford Flex's mild resemblance to the tiny Mini Cooper can fool the eye: the Flex is a stretch-sized three-row crossover wagon ready to substitute for a family minivan or a conventional S.U.V. 
 The boxy eye-catching shape hides another attribute: wind-cheating aerodynamics that help to give the Flex the best mileage in its class. 
 The Ford is also cleaner at the pump, both for an owner's hands and the environment: there's no fuel-filler cap, only a receptacle that accepts the filling station's pump nozzle; the system has less evaporative emissions.
 JOLLY GREEN GIANT
 MERCEDES-BENZ GL320 BLUETEC
 BASE PRICE: $57,625 
 M.P.G. RATING: 17 city, 23 highway, 19 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $24.15 (diesel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $3,582 
 On a recent family trip to North Carolina, a diesel GL delivered a stellar 25 m.p.g. over 500 miles of highway driving -- the best economy of any full-size S.U.V. I've tested. 
 The GL also traveled from New York to the Outer Banks on a single tank. And the sumptuous diesel Mercedes demonstrated other big advantages: it actually did better than its E.P.A. ratings, and it costs $1,000 less than the gasoline V-8 GL. Now compare that with hybrid S.U.V.'s that cost thousands more than their conventional gasoline siblings.
 SPACE SHUTTLE JR.
 NISSAN VERSA
 BASE PRICE: $13,990
 M.P.G. RATING: 24 city, 32 highway, 27 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $14.68 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,198
 The Honda Fit may be the subcompact choice for sporty drivers, but the Versa is the pick for those who are thinking small but worry that a pint-size car won't fit their quart-size lifestyle.
 Whether in the form of a sedan or a hatchback, this is the clown car of subcompacts -- yes, that's a compliment -- with the biggest back seat in its class and an impressive 50.4 cubic feet of cargo space when the back seat is folded down. One letdown: the most frugal version of the Versa is also the most expensive: the 1.8 SL hatchback with a continuously variable transmission (27 m.p.g. city, 33 highway, 29 combined) starts at $16,210.
 EUROSTYLE SIPPER
 VOLKSWAGEN JETTA TDI 
 BASE PRICE: $23,740 
 M.P.G. RATING: 29 city, 40 highway, 33 combined 
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $13.92 (diesel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,099
 VW's first 50-state entry in the new diesel sweepstakes is the Jetta TDI, bound for showrooms in sedan and SportWagen form later this month. (In recent years, most diesel cars could not be sold in states that adhere to California's emissions rules.) 
 Their 2-liter turbocharged diesel produces 140 horsepower and a strong 236 pound-feet of torque. Both models deliver an impressive 40 m.p.g. on the highway and 33 m.p.g. over all. AMCI, a vehicle testing company, found the Jetta actually beat that E.P.A. rating, achieving real-world mileage of 44 m.p.g. 
 The Jetta also delivers an 11 m.p.g. improvement over its sibling with a 2.5-liter gas engine. A typical driver will save $500 a year at the pump, even accounting for today's high price of diesel. That means the diesel will pay back its additional cost in four years or less, at which point the owner begins pocketing the savings. 
 HIGH-MILEAGE HAULER
 TOYOTA TACOMA
 BASE PRICE: $16,815
 M.P.G. RATING: 19 city, 25 highway, 21 combined
 COST TO DRIVE 100 MILES: $18.84 (regular fuel)
 A YEAR OF FILL-UPS: $2,827
 As urban cowboys flee from their demonically thirsty full-size trucks, they may find that today's midsize pickups can make more sense at the pump. Already the class of its field, the freshened 2009 Tacoma adds electronic stability control to a standard features list that includes antilock brakes, a limited-slip differential and a full complement of air bags.
 In recent years, truck buyers have gravitated to large engines, especially V-8's. But penny-pinching shoppers would do well to consider the 2.7-liter 4-cylinder (159 horsepower) in the Tacoma. Its highway rating of 25 m.p.g. handily beats the 21 rating of the 236-horsepower V-6.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN: Gas-saving alternatives include, from top, 4-cylinder Honda Accord coupe, Mazda 5 van, Toyota Camry Hybrid and the surprisingly frugal Chevrolet Corvette. (AU1)
Mini Cooper
Ford Flex
Volkswagen Jetta TDI SportWagen
Toyota RAV4
Toyota Tacoma
BMW 328i Sports Wagon
Nissan Versa
 Mercedes GL320 Bluetec (AU12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); SPORTS CARS (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



423 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Settle, or Go to Trial?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 We are concerned that a study previewed in ''The Cost of Not Settling a Lawsuit'' (Business Day, Aug. 8) reinforces ingrained negative misperceptions of how our legal system works. 
 As reported, the study presents a mechanistic picture of why it is economically advantageous to settle cases in lieu of less favorable monetary outcomes in court. Equally simplistic, the study underscores the economic incentives of lawyers to protract cases through trial.
 Such oversimplifications do not take into account the decision-making that actually governs in a predominant majority of instances. In fact, the decision to settle or not to settle often has nothing to do with the specific case itself. The overriding responsibility of the defense team is to see beyond the immediate effect of that single case and to calibrate litigation-related decisions to the long-term business interests of their clients.
 Decisions might be guided by their effect on the defendant's reputation or the future marketability of a product. Equally important, does going to trial deter others from similar actions? Would a settlement communicate weakness?
 The study as reported also fails to appreciate the role of the clients themselves. At day's end, they are the ones who say yea or nay to settlement or trial. Lawyers provide all the insight and information possible, but the final decision is not theirs, nor should it be.
 John H. Martin Marc E. Williams Huntington, W.Va., Aug. 15, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, president and president-elect of DRI, the Voice of the Defense Bar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



424 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2110 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times Along Gasoline Alley

BYLINE: By JAMES ANGELOS

 BODY:
THEY can be seen all along Atlantic Avenue -- urban foragers of a sort, often bedraggled and always in search of a dollar. Many of them pump gas, but that is not the only hustle along the strip.
 As one regular walks on sections of Atlantic, a traffic-clogged 10-mile road that runs from the Brooklyn waterfront to the Van Wyck Expressway in western Queens, he holds a bottle of glass cleaner and offers to wash car windows. Outside an auto parts store, street mechanics replace brake pads and tune transmissions, using tools hauled around in shopping carts.
 One recent evening, opposite a BP station at Vanderbilt Avenue in Prospect Heights, a taxi with smoke pouring from under its hood pulled over to the sidewalk, and a burly man ran over and lifted the hot, browning hood to expose flames rising from the engine's alternator. 
 After patting the flames with a rag, the man poured water on the fire. With steam still rising from the engine, the man demanded of the cabby, ''Where's my tip?'' The driver forked over five singles, which apparently were not enough. ''The engine could have exploded!'' the man protested. The cabby pulled out two more singles. 
 But pumping gas is the most common hustle along Atlantic Avenue. Men, and often teenage boys, stand next to self-service pumps and, at a time when it can easily cost $60 to fill a tank, offer their services in exchange for pocket change, asking, ''May I pump your gas for you?''
 Whatever the hustle, as the road travels east and the neighborhoods along it get poorer, the number of self-styled entrepreneurs only grows. At three stops along the way, they can be seen making a living, or at least a few extra dollars, off the endless rumble of cars and trucks that pummel the avenue's rutted surface.
 The Hess Station
 Beneath the peeling roof of a Hess station at Ralph Avenue in Stuyvesant Heights, framed on the north by the Brevoort housing project and on the south by Kingsborough Houses, are eight self-service pumps -- and often just as many hustlers who come and go as their economic needs dictate. The competition can be fierce; one hustler, called DMX by other gas pumpers, described it as a battle between lions and tigers.
 ''Coming in! White truck!'' DMX yelled one afternoon as he sought to claim an S.U.V. even before it turned into the station. 
 DMX, who was a station regular earlier this summer, is tall and wears a white headband. On his cheek is a three-inch scar, which he said was carved into his face during a fight in a prison upstate.
 Like several other people interviewed for this article, many of whom lead cryptic lives, he declined to give his full name. But like nearly all the hustlers in the neighborhood, he has a nickname; he earned his because he can make his voice sound as raspy as that of the rapper of the same name.
 Street etiquette dictates that once a hustler claims a car, he has exclusive rights to approach it. But sometimes this arrangement breaks down, as it did recently.
 ''Yo, why you step in front of me like that?'' a gas pumper yelled to another as passengers in a sedan that had pulled up to a pump looked out the windows with stunned expressions. 
 Amid such competition, the gas pumpers sometimes turn to intimidation.
 ''I'm going to get every car that gets in here,'' DMX announced loudly at one point. ''I got to eat.
 ''If they get in my way, I'm going to cut somebody.''
 Such hostility is in sharp contrast to the fawning attentiveness that DMX showers on customers. Smiling broadly, he refers to them as ''my sister'' or ''my dude.'' For babies in the back seats, it's ''Hey, cutie!'' 
 ''Once you get them smiling,'' he said, ''you don't know what may come out of their pockets.'' 
 When a woman in a cream-colored PT Cruiser pulled up to Pump No. 2, DMX gazed into her eyes. ''You all right?'' he asked. ''You look good.'' After pumping her gas, he received a dollar.
 In this respect, the gas pumpers are not like the squeegee men, who were ubiquitous in the city during the 1980s and were notorious for intimidating drivers stopped at red lights by demanding payment for unsolicited services like wiping dirty rags across windshields. The hustlers of Atlantic Avenue approach customers with careful hesitance and usually accept rejection politely, often with a guilt-inducing ''God bless you.'' 
 The station's employees work in a little white hut equipped with bulletproof windows. They have become accustomed to the gas pumpers, and have even developed a rapport with the regulars. The station manager, who said his name was Tony, said that he had called 311 a few times to shoo the hustlers away, but that he no longer bothered. 
 Police officers come and hand out tickets. But once they leave, the hustlers return. ''It's unstoppable,'' Tony said.
 An eight-hour workday can land a gas pumper about $50, and for the more energetic ones, maybe more. DMX, who lives nearby, said he spent his earnings on food and clothing. Other gas pumpers, some of whom have sketchier housing situations, say that they spend much of their earnings on crack cocaine. Flip, a stocky 43-year-old who habitually toots a silver harmonica, says he sometimes sleeps on the A train, keeping company with a four-inch glass pipe.
 As Flip talked about his past one recent morning over a cheeseburger at a McDonald's next to the gas station, his eyes watered as he described what he called ''all the positive things I was supposed to be.'' As a child, he enjoyed acting, and he said he was an extra on ''The Magnificent Major,'' a 1977 children's special on NBC about a little girl who didn't like to read. 
 Mr. B, a skinny, 29-year-old regular at the station, also has a crack habit, though he says he is not addicted. ''Psychology of the mind,'' he says, keeps him from being dependent on the drug. His glassy eyes roll slightly upward, and he often looks as if he is trying to suppress a grin. He likes to mention his grandmother. ''Today is my grandmother's 90th birthday,'' he told two customers, each on a different day. ''I'm going to see her later.''
 Both Flip and Mr. B take 30-minute breaks, drifting away from the station and returning dazed and sometimes a little paranoid. When Flip returned from one such break, he said, ''I went to go see Oz.'' In fact, he had made his way to Kingsborough Houses, where, he said, he took the elevator to the fifth floor of a building, puffed on his glass pipe and then rode back down.
 The same afternoon, Mr. B left the station and began walking along Atlantic Avenue toward the sunset, passing the weeds that grow through the cracks in the sidewalk. ''He won't be back for a long time,'' Flip said with a laugh.
 But Mr. B returned about an hour later. He stood silently next to Pump No. 8, looking lost in a tangle of dismal thoughts. Asked where he had gone, Mr. B flashed his famous grin and replied, ''Eat, eat, eat, eat.''
 AutoZone
 While the gas pumpers rely on a mixture of intimidation, charm and charity to make a living, other Atlantic Avenue hustlers sell their automotive skills.
 Outside an AutoZone store near Washington Avenue in Clinton Hill, several street mechanics work under cars parked on the side of the road, installing parts purchased by the store's customers.
 On a hot spring day, a 36-year-old street mechanic named Matthew Joseph lay precariously on the baking asphalt of Atlantic Avenue, near three lanes of westbound traffic that whizzed by as he jacked up the left front side of a Hyundai sedan. Mr. Joseph wore a black do-rag and a white tank top that exposed his muscular arms. After a few years of working on the side of the road, he is used to the traffic being only a few feet away.
 Pulling off the tire, Mr. Joseph released a cloud of dust that looked orange in the sunlight, and began replacing the car's brake pads. Doing this sort of work, he usually earns about $150 a day, which helps him pay the $950 monthly rent for his one-bedroom apartment nearby. For this job, he charged the car's owner $40, about half what a garage would charge, he said.
 Mr. Joseph is enthusiastic about fixing cars, and he likes to explain automotive problems to his customers, though his explanations are sometimes dizzying in their complexity.
 ''You have to see if your injector has an injector control module,'' he told a driver in a red minivan that afternoon. ''If your injector has an injector control module, then you check to see if the control module for the injector maybe isn't firing.'' 
 ''I feel you,'' the driver replied, though he looked confused.
 Later that day, Mr. Joseph sat in the passenger seat of a blue Jeep, the brakes of which he had just replaced. The driver sped up and down Atlantic Avenue, testing the work.
 ''The front brakes is good,'' Mr. Joseph announced. ''Beautiful. Beautiful delay. Hard and sturdy.'' 
 Mr. Joseph offered his cellphone number to the car owner in case there were any problems. ''You could call me, too, all right,'' he said. ''You'd be driving, even at nighttime, call me. I'm official.'' 
 Walter Malone also works near the AutoZone. He is in the auto body repair business, which he conducts on the sidewalk outside an old muffler garage. In addition, he lives in the garage, sleeping on a makeshift bed of mats and cushions protected from leaks in the roof by tarps. Mr. Malone, who often wears a red hard hat and silver chains around his neck, is deaf and speaks only in grunts.
 One afternoon, a man who identified himself as Broadway pulled up to the garage in a rusty green pickup. Mr. Malone examined the truck carefully.
 He pointed to the dented hood, making a hammering motion with his large hands, indicating that he would pound the dent out. He walked around the truck, making a ''bah'' sound when he found a problem and pantomiming how he would fix it. After the inspection, Mr. Malone rubbed together his thumb and index finger to indicate that this job would be costly. Using pen and paper, the two men eventually agreed to a price of $300. Broadway promised to bring back the pickup the next morning.
 As it turned out, Broadway did not return. But before driving off, he explained that he had bought the truck for $200, and he planned to use it for, among other things, picking up mattresses left on the street and delivering them to a refurbishing business that would pay him $15 for each one. 
 ''Everybody's got a hustle,'' Broadway said. ''You can make a dollar in this here New York City.''
 Mobil
 The gas pumping hustle at a Mobil station at Bedford Avenue, near the Bedford-Atlantic Armory and its homeless shelter, is a lot less cutthroat than the one at the Hess station a mile and half to the east. One day not long ago, a student from the nearby Science Skills Center High School named John Greene could be seen wandering among the station's 16 pumps after school. John, who was wearing a Bob Marley T-shirt, was craving a snack of nachos, but first he needed to raise the money.
 ''Can I pump your gas for you?'' he asked over and over.
 A large man who calls himself Big Earl pulled up to Pump No. 13 in a minivan that blared R & B music. ''It's cool,'' Big Earl said in response to the boy's offer. John filled the tank with regular, and Big Earl handed him a fistful of change, nearly $2.
 ''Children are our resources,'' Big Earl said. ''If we don't take care of our resources, we don't take care of our future.'' 
 Once John had collected $4, enough for two servings of nachos, he headed for the nachos machine in the station's convenience store. ''It's my favorite,'' he said as he pressed the buttons that released chili and cheese from the plastic tubes of the dispenser. Two days later, he said, he would be back for more.
 A more familiar face at the Mobil station belongs to a skinny and mysterious man with a graying beard who has been pumping gas and acting as the convenience store's de facto doorman for five years. Vishal Khosla, the station's manager, calls the man ''Green'' -- no relation to the student John Greene -- and says he likes having him around because he keeps an eye out for thieves and troublemakers.
 Most days, Green arrives at the station at 7 a.m. He earns more than enough to pay his $10 daily rent for a room nearby, he said. When the weather gets too hot, he quits early, and is happy to be able to come and go as he pleases.
 ''I be good here,'' he said one afternoon, his linen polka-dot shirt rippling in the warm breeze. ''I don't try to get over on anybody. Everybody gets to like me because I do good.''
 As he spoke, he opened the door for customers, receiving a dollar from one.
 ''If you do good,'' he said, ''you shall prosper.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A gas pumper who calls himself Flip, above, at a Hess station in Stuyvesant Heights, and a pumper known as Green, below and bottom, at a Mobil near the Bedford-Atlantic Armory. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES )(CY1)
Walter Malone, above and below, an auto body worker who operates on the street outside an AutoZone store in Clinton Hill.
 Matthew Joseph, a street mechanic who works near AutoZone.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (75%); CLEANERS (71%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



425 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 3110 words

HEADLINE: Dr. Doom

BYLINE: By STEPHEN MIHM. 
Stephen Mihm, an assistant professor of economic history at the University of Georgia, is the author of ''A Nation of Counterfeiters: Capitalists, Con Men and the Making of the United States.'' His last feature article for the magazine was about North Korean counterfeiting.

 BODY:
On Sept. 7, 2006, Nouriel Roubini, an economics professor at New York University, stood before an audience of economists at the International Monetary Fund and announced that a crisis was brewing. In the coming months and years, he warned, the United States was likely to face a once-in-a-lifetime housing bust, an oil shock, sharply declining consumer confidence and, ultimately, a deep recession. He laid out a bleak sequence of events: homeowners defaulting on mortgages, trillions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities unraveling worldwide and the global financial system shuddering to a halt. These developments, he went on, could cripple or destroy hedge funds, investment banks and other major financial institutions like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 The audience seemed skeptical, even dismissive. As Roubini stepped down from the lectern after his talk, the moderator of the event quipped, ''I think perhaps we will need a stiff drink after that.'' People laughed -- and not without reason. At the time, unemployment and inflation remained low, and the economy, while weak, was still growing, despite rising oil prices and a softening housing market. And then there was the espouser of doom himself: Roubini was known to be a perpetual pessimist, what economists call a ''permabear.'' When the economist Anirvan Banerji delivered his response to Roubini's talk, he noted that Roubini's predictions did not make use of mathematical models and dismissed his hunches as those of a career naysayer.
 But Roubini was soon vindicated. In the year that followed, subprime lenders began entering bankruptcy, hedge funds began going under and the stock market plunged. There was declining employment, a deteriorating dollar, ever-increasing evidence of a huge housing bust and a growing air of panic in financial markets as the credit crisis deepened. By late summer, the Federal Reserve was rushing to the rescue, making the first of many unorthodox interventions in the economy, including cutting the lending rate by 50 basis points and buying up tens of billions of dollars in mortgage-backed securities. When Roubini returned to the I.M.F. last September, he delivered a second talk, predicting a growing crisis of solvency that would infect every sector of the financial system. This time, no one laughed. ''He sounded like a madman in 2006,'' recalls the I.M.F. economist Prakash Loungani, who invited Roubini on both occasions. ''He was a prophet when he returned in 2007.''
 Over the past year, whenever optimists have declared the worst of the economic crisis behind us, Roubini has countered with steadfast pessimism. In February, when the conventional wisdom held that the venerable investment firms of Wall Street would weather the crisis, Roubini warned that one or more of them would go ''belly up'' -- and six weeks later, Bear Stearns collapsed. Following the Fed's further extraordinary actions in the spring -- including making lines of credit available to selected investment banks and brokerage houses -- many economists made note of the ensuing economic rally and proclaimed the credit crisis over and a recession averted. Roubini, who dismissed the rally as nothing more than a ''delusional complacency'' encouraged by a ''bunch of self-serving spinmasters,'' stuck to his script of ''nightmare'' events: waves of corporate bankrupticies, collapses in markets like commercial real estate and municipal bonds and, most alarming, the possible bankruptcy of a large regional or national bank that would trigger a panic by depositors. Not all of these developments have come to pass (and perhaps never will), but the demise last month of the California bank IndyMac -- one of the largest such failures in U.S. history -- drew only more attention to Roubini's seeming prescience.
 As a result, Roubini, a respected but formerly obscure academic, has become a major figure in the public debate about the economy: the seer who saw it coming. He has been summoned to speak before Congress, the Council on Foreign Relations and the World Economic Forum at Davos. He is now a sought-after adviser, spending much of his time shuttling between meetings with central bank governors and finance ministers in Europe and Asia. Though he continues to issue colorful doomsday prophecies of a decidedly nonmainstream sort -- especially on his popular and polemical blog, where he offers visions of ''equity market slaughter'' and the ''Coming Systemic Bust of the U.S. Banking System'' -- the mainstream economic establishment appears to be moving closer, however fitfully, to his way of seeing things. ''I have in the last few months become more pessimistic than the consensus,'' the former Treasury secretary Lawrence Summers told me earlier this year. ''Certainly, Nouriel's writings have been a contributor to that.''
 On a cold and dreary day last winter, I met Roubini over lunch in the TriBeCa neighborhood of New York City. ''I'm not a pessimist by nature,'' he insisted. ''I'm not someone who sees things in a bleak way.'' Just looking at him, I found the assertion hard to credit. With a dour manner and an aura of gloom about him, Roubini gives the impression of being permanently pained, as if the burden of what he knows is almost too much for him to bear. He rarely smiles, and when he does, his face, topped by an unruly mop of brown hair, contorts into something more closely resembling a grimace.
 When I pressed him on his claim that he wasn't pessimistic, he paused for a moment and then relented a little. ''I have more concerns about potential risks and vulnerabilities than most people,'' he said, with glum understatement. But these concerns, he argued, make him more of a realist than a pessimist and put him in the role of the cleareyed outsider -- unsettling complacency and puncturing pieties.
 Roubini, who is 50, has been an outsider his entire life. He was born in Istanbul, the child of Iranian Jews, and his family moved to Tehran when he was 2, then to Tel Aviv and finally to Italy, where he grew up and attended college. He moved to the United States to pursue his doctorate in international economics at Harvard. Along the way he became fluent in Farsi, Hebrew, Italian and English. His accent, an inimitable polyglot growl, radiates a weariness that comes with being what he calls a ''global nomad.''
 As a graduate student at Harvard, Roubini was an unusual talent, according to his adviser, the Columbia economist Jeffrey Sachs. He was as comfortable in the world of arcane mathematics as he was studying political and economic institutions. ''It's a mix of skills that rarely comes packaged in one person,'' Sachs told me. After completing his Ph.D. in 1988, Roubini joined the economics department at Yale, where he first met and began sharing ideas with Robert Shiller, the economist now known for his prescient warnings about the 1990s tech bubble.
 The '90s were an eventful time for an international economist like Roubini. Throughout the decade, one emerging economy after another was beset by crisis, beginning with Mexico's in 1994. Panics swept Asia, including Thailand, Indonesia and Korea, in 1997 and 1998. The economies of Brazil and Russia imploded in 1998. Argentina's followed in 2000. Roubini began studying these countries and soon identified what he saw as their common weaknesses. On the eve of the crises that befell them, he noticed, most had huge current-account deficits (meaning, basically, that they spent far more than they made), and they typically financed these deficits by borrowing from abroad in ways that exposed them to the national equivalent of bank runs. Most of these countries also had poorly regulated banking systems plagued by excessive borrowing and reckless lending. Corporate governance was often weak, with cronyism in abundance.
 Roubini's work was distinguished not only by his conclusions but also by his approach. By making extensive use of transnational comparisons and historical analogies, he was employing a subjective, nontechnical framework, the sort embraced by popular economists like the Times Op-Ed columnist Paul Krugman and Joseph Stiglitz in order to reach a nonacademic audience. Roubini takes pains to note that he remains a rigorous scholarly economist -- ''When I weigh evidence,'' he told me, ''I'm drawing on 20 years of accumulated experience using models'' -- but his approach is not the contemporary scholarly ideal in which an economist builds a model in order to constrain his subjective impressions and abide by a discrete set of data. As Shiller told me, ''Nouriel has a different way of seeing things than most economists: he gets into everything.''
 Roubini likens his style to that of a policy maker like Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman who was said (perhaps apocryphally) to pore over vast quantities of technical economic data while sitting in the bathtub, looking to sniff out where the economy was headed. Roubini also cites, as a more ideologically congenial example, the sweeping, cosmopolitan approach of the legendary economist John Maynard Keynes, whom Roubini, with only slight exaggeration, calls ''the most brilliant economist who never wrote down an equation.'' The book that Roubini ultimately wrote (with the economist Brad Setser) on the emerging market crises, ''Bailouts or Bail-Ins?'' contains not a single equation in its 400-plus pages.
 After analyzing the markets that collapsed in the '90s, Roubini set out to determine which country's economy would be the next to succumb to the same pressures. His surprising answer: the United States'. ''The United States,'' Roubini remembers thinking, ''looked like the biggest emerging market of all.'' Of course, the United States wasn't an emerging market; it was (and still is) the largest economy in the world. But Roubini was unnerved by what he saw in the U.S. economy, in particular its 2004 current-account deficit of $600 billion. He began writing extensively about the dangers of that deficit and then branched out, researching the various effects of the credit boom -- including the biggest housing bubble in the nation's history -- that began after the Federal Reserve cut rates to close to zero in 2003. Roubini became convinced that the housing bubble was going to pop.
 By late 2004 he had started to write about a ''nightmare hard landing scenario for the United States.'' He predicted that foreign investors would stop financing the fiscal and current-account deficit and abandon the dollar, wreaking havoc on the economy. He said that these problems, which he called the ''twin financial train wrecks,'' might manifest themselves in 2005 or, at the latest, 2006. ''You have been warned here first,'' he wrote ominously on his blog. But by the end of 2006, the train wrecks hadn't occurred.
 Recessions are signal events in any modern economy. And yet remarkably, the profession of economics is quite bad at predicting them. A recent study looked at ''consensus forecasts'' (the predictions of large groups of economists) that were made in advance of 60 different national recessions that hit around the world in the '90s: in 97 percent of the cases, the study found, the economists failed to predict the coming contraction a year in advance. On those rare occasions when economists did successfully predict recessions, they significantly underestimated the severity of the downturns. Worse, many of the economists failed to anticipate recessions that occurred as soon as two months later.
 The dismal science, it seems, is an optimistic profession. Many economists, Roubini among them, argue that some of the optimism is built into the very machinery, the mathematics, of modern economic theory. Econometric models typically rely on the assumption that the near future is likely to be similar to the recent past, and thus it is rare that the models anticipate breaks in the economy. And if the models can't foresee a relatively minor break like a recession, they have even more trouble modeling and predicting a major rupture like a full-blown financial crisis. Only a handful of 20th-century economists have even bothered to study financial panics. (The most notable example is probably the late economist Hyman Minksy, of whom Roubini is an avid reader.) ''These are things most economists barely understand,'' Roubini told me. ''We're in uncharted territory where standard economic theory isn't helpful.'' 
 True though this may be, Roubini's critics do not agree that his approach is any more accurate. Anirvan Banerji, the economist who challenged Roubini's first I.M.F. talk, points out that Roubini has been peddling pessimism for years; Banerji contends that Roubini's apparent foresight is nothing more than an unhappy coincidence of events. ''Even a stopped clock is right twice a day,'' he told me. ''The justification for his bearish call has evolved over the years,'' Banerji went on, ticking off the different reasons that Roubini has used to justify his predictions of recessions and crises: rising trade deficits, exploding current-account deficits, Hurricane Katrina, soaring oil prices. All of Roubini's predictions, Banerji observed, have been based on analogies with past experience. ''This forecasting by analogy is a tempting thing to do,'' he said. ''But you have to pick the right analogy. The danger of this more subjective approach is that instead of letting the objective facts shape your views, you will choose the facts that confirm your existing views.'' 
 Kenneth Rogoff, an economist at Harvard who has known Roubini for decades, told me that he sees great value in Roubini's willingness to entertain possible situations that are far outside the consensus view of most economists. ''If you're sitting around at the European Central Bank,'' he said, ''and you're asking what's the worst thing that could happen, the first thing people will say is, 'Let's see what Nouriel says.' '' But Rogoff cautioned against equating that skill with forecasting. Roubini, in other words, might be the kind of economist you want to consult about the possibility of the collapse of the municipal-bond market, but he is not necessarily the kind you ask to predict, say, the rise in global demand for paper clips.
 His defenders contend that Roubini is not unduly pessimistic. Jeffrey Sachs, his former adviser, told me that ''if the underlying conditions call for optimism, Nouriel would be optimistic.'' And to be sure, Roubini is capable of being optimistic -- or at least of steering clear of absolute worst-case prognostications. He agrees, for example, with the conventional economic wisdom that oil will drop below $100 a barrel in the coming months as global demand weakens. ''I'm not comfortable saying that we're going to end up in the Great Depression,'' he told me. ''I'm a reasonable person.''
 What economic developments does Roubini see on the horizon? And what does he think we should do about them? The first step, he told me in a recent conversation, is to acknowledge the extent of the problem. ''We are in a recession, and denying it is nonsense,'' he said. When Jim Nussle, the White House budget director, announced last month that the nation had ''avoided a recession,'' Roubini was incredulous. For months, he has been predicting that the United States will suffer through an 18-month recession that will eventually rank as the ''worst since the Great Depression.'' Though he is confident that the economy will enter a technical recovery toward the end of next year, he says that job losses, corporate bankruptcies and other drags on growth will continue to take a toll for years.
 Roubini has counseled various policy makers, including Federal Reserve governors and senior Treasury Department officials, to mount an aggressive response to the crisis. He applauded when the Federal Reserve cut interest rates to 2 percent from 5.25 percent beginning last summer. He also supported the Fed's willingness to engineer a takeover of Bear Stearns. Roubini argues that the Fed's actions averted catastrophe, though he says he believes that future bailouts should focus on mortgage owners, not investors. Accordingly, he sees the choice facing the United States as stark but simple: either the government backs up a trillion-plus dollars' worth of high-risk mortgages (in exchange for the lenders' agreement to reduce monthly mortgage payments), or the banks and other institutions holding those mortgages -- or the complex securities derived from them -- go under. ''You either nationalize the banks or you nationalize the mortgages,'' he said. ''Otherwise, they're all toast.''
 For months Roubini has been arguing that the true cost of the housing crisis will not be a mere $300 billion -- the amount allowed for by the housing legislation sponsored by Representative Barney Frank and Senator Christopher Dodd -- but something between a trillion and a trillion and a half dollars. But most important, in Roubini's opinion, is to realize that the problem is deeper than the housing crisis. ''Reckless people have deluded themselves that this was a subprime crisis,'' he told me. ''But we have problems with credit-card debt, student-loan debt, auto loans, commercial real estate loans, home-equity loans, corporate debt and loans that financed leveraged buyouts.'' All of these forms of debt, he argues, suffer from some or all of the same traits that first surfaced in the housing market: shoddy underwriting, securitization, negligence on the part of the credit-rating agencies and lax government oversight. ''We have a subprime financial system,'' he said, ''not a subprime mortgage market.''
 Roubini argues that most of the losses from this bad debt have yet to be written off, and the toll from bad commercial real estate loans alone may help send hundreds of local banks into the arms of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. ''A good third of the regional banks won't make it,'' he predicted. In turn, these bailouts will add hundreds of billions of dollars to an already gargantuan federal debt, and someone, somewhere, is going to have to finance that debt, along with all the other debt accumulated by consumers and corporations. ''Our biggest financiers are China, Russia and the gulf states,'' Roubini noted. ''These are rivals, not allies.''
 The United States, Roubini went on, will likely muddle through the crisis but will emerge from it a different nation, with a different place in the world. ''Once you run current-account deficits, you depend on the kindness of strangers,'' he said, pausing to let out a resigned sigh. ''This might be the beginning of the end of the American empire.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE GILDEN) (pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); MODELING & SIMULATION (64%); MATHEMATICS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



426 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; OBJECT LESSON; Pg. 204

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Jagged Edge

BYLINE: BY ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
The economy is on the skids. Oil prices are soaring. A humanitarian crisis looms. A new president promises to restore America's confidence. Salman Rushdie's new novel is a hit, and Indiana Jones scores at the box office. A blockbuster video game is a pop culture phenomenon. The fashion pages are filled with goth black layers in the same jaggedy shapes as the coolest new furniture.
 Sound familiar? Try swapping early reports of AIDS for the Myanmar cyclone; Ronald Reagan for whoever wins in November; ''Midnight's Children'' for ''The Enchantress of Florence''; ''Raiders of the Lost Ark'' for ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull''; Donkey Kong for Grand Theft Auto IV; and it could just as easily be 1981. As for recession, oil shock and jaggedy design (by that I mean clothes and chairs made in straight lines jutting out at odd angles), they were there, too. 
 It was back in 1981 that the Japanese labels Comme des Garcons and Yohji Yamamoto took Paris by storm, with the staccato black layers that became the fashion intelligentsia's uniform for the rest of the decade. That was also the year when furniture was dominated by the geometric forms of Memphis and the Brutalist pieces made by the Israeli-born designer Ron Arad from scaffolding and concrete.
 You can spot the same silhouette in some of this fall's fashion. Exhibit A: the jutting peplums on Prada's lace dresses. Exhibit B: Yves Saint Laurent's sharply angled tailoring. There's also a lot of jagged furniture out there; at this spring's Milan furniture fair, it seemed like every other young designer showed what could be described politely as an ''interpretation'' (impolitely as a ''knockoff'') of the German designer Konstantin Grcic's angular aesthetic. Similar forms appeared in the Resilience concrete table made by his compatriot Julia Lohmann, and in the Memphis-inspired objects devised by young Dutch designers like Studio Job and Maarten Baas. 
 Why are so many designers working the angles? Rewind through design history and you'll see that changes in shape are generally triggered by a confluence of timing and technology. Strong geometric forms are popular in extreme eras, when we feel the need to 
 assert ourselves against whatever's threatening our well-being, like in the early 1980s, whereas we're drawn to curves when we're feeling introspective: as we were in the 1950s after the horror of World War II, and in the 1970s, after Vietnam and Watergate.
 There's a cyclical element, too. After a few years of straight lines, designers grow bored and are eager to experiment with curves again. More important, they wish to put their stamp on whatever new shapes the latest technology has spawned. 
 Take the 1990s. We began with the blob -- that improbably perfect oval. Designers hadn't been able to make shapes like that before, and jumped at the chance to do so. For the rest of us, the blob evoked the early days of the Internet, when we were excited by digital technology but still wary of it. It was unmistakably digital, but not intimidatingly so.
 Then came the digital ripple: the three-dimensional version of the spirals that quiver across our computer screens. It was the shape of the mid-oughts, when design software had become sophisticated enough to create it and we'd lost our fear of technology. One example is the rippling wooden Cinderella Table made by the Dutch designer Jeroen Verhoeven. Another is the French designer Patrick Jouin's eerily futuristic Solid C2 chair.
 So I guess we're feeling embattled again, and designers are not so wowed by technology that they're allowing it to dictate their shapes. They want to be hands-on in modeling their work, which is good news for all the rest of us who have been craving the human touch.
 Few designers are better at it than Grcic. He begins every project by building a cardboard model and develops his ideas while making it, rather than sketching on paper or doodling on a computer. He then translates that model into a digital one, but the end result is still shaped by flat planes of cardboard and never loses the sense of having been made by hand -- literally.
 That's why his designs are angular; why so many other designers are drawn to similar shapes; and why, however unforgiving those straight lines and sharp angles might look, they somehow seem right to us. At least they do now. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANGLEMANIA: From left, Patrick Jouin's Solid C2 chair
fall looks from Prada and Yves Saint Laurent
Julia Lohmann's Resilience table. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT: FROM PATRICK JOUIN
GETTY IMAGES (2)
 FROM JULIA LOHMANN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (72%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



427 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Digital Designers Rediscover Their Hands

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
GEVER TULLEY has only one qualification for training software designers how to become more creative. He teaches children how to build objects like gravity-powered wooden roller coasters with their hands, at his Tinkering School in Montara, Calif., south of San Francisco.
 Now Mr. Tulley does the same thing for dozens of adults who are in the front ranks of software design at Adobe, the big software supplier based in San Jose, Calif. In daylong workshops, about 100 Adobe designers wrestle with plastic beads, small electronic displays, Ikea water glasses and tiny sensors to create wacky motion games. Usually, about the only thing these folks touch on the job is a computer mouse. 
 ''Some people thought we were crazy to do this,'' says Michael Gough, a vice president for design at Adobe. ''But for others, the experience has started to inform how they work,'' giving them a better appreciation of how customers experience Adobe's programs. 
 ''So we're going to keep pushing it,'' Mr. Gough says. 
 Mr. Tulley's transformation highlights a little-noticed movement in the world of professional design and engineering: a renewed appreciation for manual labor, or innovating with the aid of human hands.
 ''A lot of people get lost in the world of computer simulation,'' says Bill Burnett, executive director of the product design program at Stanford. ''You can't simulate everything.''
 Using computers to model the physical world has become increasingly common; products as diverse as cars and planes, pharmaceuticals and cellphones are almost entirely conceived, specified and designed on a computer screen. Typically, only when these creations are nearly ready for mass manufacturing are prototypes made -- and often not by the people who designed them.
 Creative designers and engineers are rebelling against their alienation from the physical world. ''The hands-on part is for me a critical aspect of understanding how to design,'' said Michael Kuniavsky , a consultant in San Francisco who for three years has convened a summer gathering of leading designers, called ''Sketching in Hardware.'' 
 At last month's session, at the Rhode Island School of Design, attendees broke into small groups, wielding soldering irons and materials their grandfathers probably knew more about. 
 Such experiences hone instinct and intuition as opposed to logic and cognition, advocates say, and bring the designer closer to art than science.
 ''I'm not sure employers are recognizing the importance of hands-on,'' Mr. Kuniavsky says.
 Mr. Gough began to appreciate the possibilities of Mr. Tulley's ''learn by making'' idea for Adobe only after his own children attended the Tinkering School.
 Part of corporate resistance to experimenting with hands-on activities comes from the difficulty of measuring the value of paying employees to, say, build a go-cart or a radio set while in the office. Yet educators say the benefits, even if intangible, are clear. ''All your intelligence isn't in your brain,'' Mr. Burnett says. ''You learn through your hands.''
 At Stanford, the rediscovery of human hands arose partly from the frustration of engineering, architecture and design professors who realized that their best students had never taken apart a bicycle or built a model airplane. For much the same reason, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology offers a class, ''How to Make (Almost) Anything,'' which emphasizes learning to use physical tools effectively. 
 ''Students are desperate for hands-on experience,'' says Neil Gershenfeld, who teaches the course.
 Paradoxically, yearnings to pick up a hammer -- or an oscilloscope -- may deepen even as young people immerse themselves in simulated worlds. ''People spend so much time in digital worlds that it creates an appetite for the physical world,'' says Dale Dougherty, an executive at O'Reilly Media, which is based in Sebastopol, Calif., He manages a magazine, Maker, that is devoted to building digital-era gear.
 Fifty years ago, tinkering with gadgets was routine for people drawn to engineering and invention. When personal computers became widespread starting in the 1980s, ''we tended to forget the importance of physical senses,'' says Richard Sennett, a sociologist at the London School of Economics.
 Making refinements with your own hands -- rather than automatically, as often happens with a computer -- means ''you have to be extremely self-critical,'' says Mr. Sennett, whose book ''The Craftsman'' (Yale University Press, 2008), examines the importance of ''skilled manual labor,'' which he believes includes computer programming.
 EVEN in highly abstract fields, like the design of next-generation electronic circuits, some people believe that hands-on experiences can enhance creativity. ''You need your hands to verify experimentally a technology that doesn't exist,'' says Mario Paniccia, director of Intel's photonics technology lab in Santa Clara, Calif. Building optical switches in silicon materials, for example, requires engineers to test the experimental switches themselves, and to build test equipment, too. 
 Bringing human hands back into the world of digital designers may have profound long-term consequences. Designs could become safer, more user-friendly and even more durable.
 At the very least, the process of creating things could become a happier one. While working in simulated computer worlds has undeniable appeal, Mr. Tulley says, ''the physical act of making things helps the whole person.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Ping column last Sunday, about the effect of digital design on hands-on innovation, misstated the title of a magazine that focuses on do-it-yourself technology projects. It is Make, not Maker.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A hands-on experience: Adobe designers use the art of soldering in a competition to build creative devices. The exercise was part of a workshop at the company's headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB MURATA/ADOBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (92%)

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (92%); ADB (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



428 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING VLADIVOSTOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Extravagance at Russia's Edge

BYLINE: By ROBERT REID

 BODY:
ANCHORING the far end of the 5,757-mile Trans-Siberian Railway, the Russian port city of Vladivostok did not exactly welcome visitors during the Soviet era. Despite its strategic position -- near the Russian border with China and North Korea -- Vladivostok occupied its own world during the cold war and was off limits to everyone, even Russians, since it was also home to the Russian Pacific Fleet. 
 But its ports have swung open in recent years, not just as a thriving trading post at the edge of Asia, but also as a surprisingly picturesque city of hillside mansions, scenic bays and, these days, extravagant night life fueled by the booming shipping and commercial fishing industries.
 Numerous airlines now fly into Vladivostok. Low-cost carriers like S7 (www.s7.ru) have softened the distance from Moscow, while airlines like Vladivostok Air (www.vladivostokavia.ru) fly from regional hubs including Hanoi, Beijing, Seoul and Osaka. This summer even saw new flights from the United States, with service on Vladivostok Air from Anchorage, Alaska.
 More change is on the way as the city prepares to host the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in 2012. About $6 billion in new hotels, highways, theaters and casinos have been proposed, although parts of Vladivostok already glitter. 
 Among the shiniest new spots is Okno (Batareynaya 3A; 7-4232-555-222; www.myspace.com/clubokno), a flashy Moscow-style nightclub that occupies the top floor of a new office complex on Sportivnaya Harbor. On a recent night, young professionals in designer halter tops and stilettos were lounging on gold Baroque-style armchairs, sipping vodka-and-Red Bulls and dancing to a cover of ''I Will Survive.'' Price of admission? A whopping 3,000 rubles, or about $125 at 24 rubles to the dollar. 
 ''People come here to feel like they have the luxury life, even if they're spending their last ruble,'' said Okno's manager, Evgeni Park, 30, who was dressed in Prada and Gucci and who drives around the city's hilly streets in a 2005 Bentley Continental GT. 
 A similar aesthetic informs the city's dining scene, nouveau riche establishments that take the form of dacha-style microbreweries and 24-hour pizzeria lounges you're expected to dress up for. 
 The money crowd heads to the Syndicate (Komsomolskaya 11; 7-4232-469-460), a cavernous steakhouse that is set up like Al Capone-era Chicago, with homegrown blues bands and painted storefronts that look right out of ''The Untouchables.'' The menu includes a dish of grilled tiger prawns called Clan Soprano (550 rubles).
 Also popular among the catwalk-ready crowd is Grand Cafe (Morskoi Vokzal, 7-4232-302-722; www.grand-cafe.ru), a split-level nightclub atop the former Morskoi Vokzal, or maritime terminal, on Golden Horn Bay. By day, it's a quiet lunch spot to do business over salads and sandwiches; at night, boozy dance parties take over, spilling over to the large roof deck.
 ''Vladivostok used to have nothing,'' said Mr. Park, ''so now people want the best.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vladivostok, now a thriving, bustling port city with glittering nightclubs, was long closed to the West. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY ADAMS/POLARIS) MAP: Vladivostok, Russia 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (86%); CURRENCIES (75%); AIR SERVICE (75%); COLD WAR (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

COMPANY: JSC S7 AIRLINES (90%); MYSPACE INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (66%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) ALASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



429 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Lack Direction Even as Oil Declines

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The price of oil fell during the week while inflation in July rose to a 5.6 percent annual rate, a 17-year high. There was no clear direction for the stock market. 
 General Motors shares gained 11.47 percent for the week, the best in the Dow industrials. American International Group lost 7.6 percent, the worst. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 74.42 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 11,659.90. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.88 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,289.20. The Nasdaq composite index rose 38.42 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 2,452.52. 
 Oil futures in New York settled at $113.77 a barrel, down from $115.20 the previous week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.84 percent from 3.93 percent a week earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); FUTURES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



430 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8113 words

HEADLINE: A Teachable Moment

BYLINE: By PAUL TOUGH. 
Paul Tough is an editor at the magazine and the author of ''Whatever It Takes: Geoffrey Canada's Quest to Change Harlem and America,'' to be published next month.

 BODY:
When Tony Petite enrolled in elementary school in Denver in the fall of 2005, he quickly discovered that he was the only kid in fourth grade who didn't know how to write in cursive. In the four years he spent in the New Orleans public school system, no one ever taught him how. ''In my third-grade school,'' he told me recently, ''they just sit you in the class, and they just tell you to do this, and tell you to do that. In Denver, they help you, and they show you how to do your work.''
 Tony arrived in Denver along with his parents and younger brother, Troy, as part of the epic exodus of hundreds of thousands of people, including tens of thousands of public-school students, driven from their homes in New Orleans by Hurricane Katrina and scattered to every corner of the country. At first, Tony felt out of place -- he and Troy were among the only black students in the school -- and academically, he started off well behind most of his classmates. But he got a lot of special attention from his teacher, and when he and his family returned to New Orleans a year later and he started fifth grade in Jefferson Parish, just west of the city, he was an above-average student. 
 Over the next two years, though, things slipped. His grades fell from A's and B's to C's, D's and F's, and last semester, he was suspended five times, mostly for fighting. When the school year ended, Tony had failed sixth grade, and his mother, Trineil Petite, went looking for a different option.
 I met Tony and his mother last month, when I arrived on the doorstep of their home in Gentilly with Tiffany Hardrick and Keith Sanders, the principals of a brand-new boys-only New Orleans charter school called Miller-McCoy Academy for Mathematics and Business. Gentilly, a quiet neighborhood of mostly single-story homes, was badly flooded after Katrina. The Petites' current home, which belongs to Trineil's 83-year-old grandmother, had been filled with about five feet of water; the front of the house is still marked with a blue X and a zero, spray-painted by a rescue crew in September 2005 to show that the house had been searched and that no dead bodies had been found. (These grim reminders of the flood remain on homes all over New Orleans; down the street, a house still bore the words ''DEAD DOG IN HOUSE,'' in six-inch-high black letters, with a giant arrow pointing to the front door.)
 Petite had been searching for a school for Tony all summer, and a week earlier she heard about Miller-McCoy from the principal of a nearby charter school whose admission rolls were already full. Meanwhile, Hardrick and Sanders had been searching for Tony, or at least for boys like him; they had been in New Orleans recruiting students for almost a year at that point, running radio ads, knocking on doors, posting signs on the grassy strips that run down the middle of the city's boulevards. Miller-McCoy would be a combination middle and high school, and Hardrick and Sanders needed 108 sixth-grade students and 108 ninth-grade students, all willing to take a chance on a school with no track record. When Petite called, they had almost reached their goal; Tony got one of the last spots in sixth grade.
 Before they moved last year to New Orleans, Hardrick, who is 32, and Sanders, who is 36, were public-school principals in Memphis, graduates of a prestigious program run by New Leaders for New Schools, a nonprofit that trains aspiring principals to work in urban school districts with low test scores and high concentrations of poor and minority students. It was hard to leave Memphis, they told me -- their schools were thriving, and test scores were rising -- but they couldn't resist the pull of New Orleans.
 It was partly a desire to help right what they felt was a great wrong, a sense almost of moral obligation. After Katrina hit, Sanders told me, he spent the week glued to his television, watching one horrifying image after another. ''I remember sitting in my living room and just crying, just really feeling for the people who were involved,'' he said. ''Now we've been given the opportunity to be a part of the rebirth of New Orleans. How often do you get a chance to contribute to something like this?''
 But it wasn't only sympathy for the survivors of Katrina that drew them to New Orleans. The city's disastrously low-performing school system was almost entirely washed away in the flood -- many of the buildings were destroyed, the school board was taken over and all the teachers were fired. What is being built in its place is an educational landscape unlike any other, a radical experiment in reform. More than half of the city's public-school students are now being educated in charter schools, publicly financed but privately run, and most of the rest are enrolled in schools run by an unusually decentralized and rapidly changing school district. From across the country, and in increasing numbers, hundreds of ambitious, idealistic young educators like Hardrick and Sanders have descended on New Orleans, determined to take advantage of the opportunity not just to innovate and reinvent but also to prove to the rest of the country that an entire city of children in the demographic generally considered the hardest to educate -- poor African-American kids -- can achieve high levels of academic success.
 Katrina struck at a critical moment in the evolution of the contemporary education-reform movement. President Bush's education initiative, No Child Left Behind, had shined a light on the underperformance of poor minority students across the country by requiring, for the first time, that a school successfully educate not just its best students but its poor and minority students too in order to be counted as successful. Scattered across the country were a growing number of schools, often intensive charter schools, that seemed to be succeeding with disadvantaged students in a consistent and measurable way. But these schools were isolated examples. No one had figured out how to ''scale up'' those successes to transform an entire urban school district. There were ambitious new superintendents in Philadelphia, New York City, Denver and Chicago, all determined to reform their school systems to better serve poor children, but even those who seemed to be succeeding were doing so in incremental ways, lifting the percentage of students passing statewide or citywide tests to, say, 40 from 30 or to 50 from 40.
 In New Orleans, before the storm, the schools weren't succeeding even in an incremental way. In 2005, Louisiana's public schools ranked anywhere from 43rd to 46th in the federal government's various state-by-state rankings of student achievement, and the schools in Orleans Parish, which encompasses the city of New Orleans, ranked 67th out of the 68 parishes in the state. The school system was monochromatically black -- white students made up just 3 percent of the public-school population, most of them attending one of a handful of selective-enrollment magnet schools -- and overwhelmingly poor as well; more than 75 percent of students had family incomes low enough to make them eligible for a subsidized lunch from the federal government. The dysfunction in the city's school system extended well beyond the classroom: a revolving door for superintendents, whose average tenure lasted no more than a year; school officials indicted for bribery and theft; unexplained budget deficits; decaying buildings; almost three-quarters of the city's schools slapped with an ''academically unacceptable'' rating from the state.
 Tony's mother, Trineil, who is 31, was a product of that system. Before the storm blew her family to Denver, she had never been outside of Louisiana, even for a day, and everyone she knew had been educated in New Orleans public schools. She was familiar with schools that didn't work and educators who didn't seem to care much. So it felt more than a little strange to her to be standing in her home with Hardrick and Sanders, two highly educated, impeccably dressed black professionals, listening to them describe what Miller-McCoy had to offer her son. 
 ''Ultimately, it's my responsibility to make sure that you get to college,'' Hardrick said to Tony. ''You're a sixth grader, and I'm standing in your living room telling Mom that if she will allow you to stick with me until 12th grade, you will be accepted to a four-year university.''
 School wouldn't be easy, she told him. He'd have to arrive each morning at 7:30 a.m., he'd have to wear a blazer and a necktie every day, he'd have to do his homework every night or stay until 6 p.m. the next afternoon to complete it. Hardrick handed Tony a copy of the Miller-McCoy Family and School Covenant, which she wanted him and his mother to sign, along with his homeroom teacher and Hardrick herself. All four people, she explained, had to make a commitment to get Tony to college. 
 ''If you work hard and I work hard, we'll get you there,'' she said. ''Is that fair? Are you ready to sign and shake and be officially welcomed to Miller-McCoy?''
 Tony looked a little nervous, especially about the 7:30 part, but he nodded his head and said yes. Hardrick handed Tony a pen, and while he signed his name, she asked his mother if she had any questions.
 ''I'm excited,'' Petite said. ''This is different. Y'all are taking time with these kids.''
 What first sold her on Miller-McCoy, she said, was when the woman who answered the phone at the school told her that the boys would wear matching blazers with the school crest. ''I said, 'Blazers?' I've never seen any kids running around in blazers except at St. Augustine'' -- a nearby Catholic high school -- ''and that's where you pay to go to school. This is a public school, and they wear blazers and ties? I want that for my son. I do. I really want it for him. I know he can do it.''
 When we left, the sun was going down. It was sweltering, like every midsummer day in New Orleans, the kind of day when the only thing you want to do is sit next to an air-conditioner and drink iced tea. But all around the city, things were buzzing. Six other charter-school leaders were preparing to open their doors for the first time, training staff and arranging bus schedules. In an office park down by the Mississippi River, another crop of future principals were meeting to begin planning their own new schools, which they hoped to open in the fall of 2009. Two hundred and fifty Teach for America teachers, nearly all recent college graduates, had just arrived to complete preparations for their new positions in schools in the region. And in a converted office building across town, next to a highway interchange, 80 returning principals and other school administrators were spending the week being trained in new techniques of ''instructional coaching'' and behavioral interventions.
 For many years now, the central debate in American education has been over just how much schools can do to improve the low rate of achievement among poor children. While it is true that for decades the children of New Orleans toiled in a substandard school system, they have also continually faced countless other obstacles to success -- inadequate health care, poorly educated parents, exposure to high rates of violent crime and a popular culture that often denigrates mainstream achievement. And though the hurricane washed away the school system, it didn't wash away their other problems. In fact, for most children it compounded them with a whole new set of troubles: wrecked homes, frequent relocations, divided families, post-traumatic stress. Were public schools really the right vehicle to attack all of those problems? Were a blazer and a necktie and a lot of hard work enough to get Tony Petite to college?
 For Hardrick and Sanders and the dozens of other education reformers I spoke to in New Orleans since my first trip there in March, the answer was a firm yes. They didn't deny the daunting spectrum of problems facing the children they were trying to educate. But they said they believed they could overcome them in the classroom -- and that the new educational terrain in New Orleans had significantly increased their chances of success.
 Before Hardrick and Sanders got in their car to drive off down the potholed streets of Gentilly, I asked Hardrick what had motivated her to abandon a successful school and a comfortable life in Memphis to come to New Orleans and start all over from scratch. She thought for a moment before answering. ''I think that when we get it right, we will transform education for the nation, for urban schools everywhere,'' she said. ''We have an opportunity here to create a model that works, so we can say to other schools, other districts and other cities and states: This is what we should be doing. This is how we give all students a quality education.''
 Of course, there's also the possibility that the model they are building won't work -- and it is that thought that keeps Hardrick and many of the other new arrivals up at night. What if they don't achieve the level of success they are hoping for? What kind of lessons will people draw from the city's grand educational experiment then?
 For the first couple of years after the storm, the schools of New Orleans, like most things in the city, were a mess. Students returned to the city more quickly than state officials expected (in some cases, parents living in Houston or Baton Rouge sent their children back alone, to stay with relatives or simply to fend for themselves), and by September 2006, there were about 22,000 public-school students in New Orleans, one-third of the pre-Katrina population. Though it was more than a year after the storm, the school system wasn't ready for them: there were not enough buses, not enough textbooks; no hot lunches, no doors on the bathroom stalls. There also weren't enough teachers -- 106 positions were still unfilled on the first day of classes; at some schools, there were as many private security guards, often young and poorly trained, as there were teachers. 
 Things began to change that spring. In February, Cecil Picard, the state education superintendent, died after a long battle with A.L.S., or Lou Gehrig's disease, and Gov. Kathleen Blanco offered his job to Paul Pastorek, a former president of the state school board who had been running an educational advisory committee since the storm. Although Pastorek was not an educator, he was well acquainted with many of the leading figures in the education-reform world, and before he accepted Blanco's offer, he spent a few days calling around the country, rounding up support, asking one person after another the same question: If I take the job, will you come help?
 One call was to Paul Vallas, the head of the Philadelphia school system, who was locked in an increasingly bitter feud with the city's school reform commission over a $73 million deficit in the budget that appeared unexpectedly the previous October. After six years running the Chicago schools and five years doing the same in Philadelphia, Vallas was known nationally as a reformer. Pastorek asked Vallas if he'd be interested in leaving Philadelphia and running the Recovery School District, the state-mandated entity that controlled many of the public schools in New Orleans.
 Ever since, Pastorek and Vallas have been the odd couple at the top of the New Orleans school system. Pastorek, compact and neatly dressed, speaks softly and slowly, carefully weighing his words. Vallas, tall and rangy, is a manic talker; sentences take off in one direction and then veer wildly toward another. Pastorek sits still, his hands folded in front of him. Vallas is a compulsive fidgeter, sometimes hoisting his entire body up onto his office chair so that he is perched on the seat in a full crouch. 
 Vallas is the detail man; Pastorek is the deep thinker. Since taking the job, Pastorek has immersed himself in theories of education, consulting with scholars from Seattle to Toronto to London. His conclusion, more than a year into his work, is that fixing a public-school system is not at its root a question of curriculum or personnel or even money. It is a question of governance. It is simply impossible, Pastorek has come to believe, for a traditional school system, run from the top down by a central administrator, to educate large numbers of poor children to high levels of achievement. ''The command-and-control structure can produce marginal improvements,'' he told me when we met last month at a coffeehouse on Magazine Street. ''But what's clear to me is that it can only get you so far. If you create a system where initiative and creativity is valued and rewarded, then you'll get change from the bottom up. If you create a system where people are told what to do and how to do it, then you will get change from the top down. We've been doing top-down for many years in Louisiana. And all we have is islands of excellence amidst a sea of mediocrity and failure.''
 The theorist who has had the most influence over Pastorek is Paul T. Hill, who runs a research group at the University of Washington called the Center on Reinventing Public Education. In September 2005, while much of New Orleans was still submerged, Hill published an article in Education Week that urged state and federal officials and philanthropic foundations to resist the temptation simply to send emergency aid to whatever programs seemed most in need. ''The circumstances call for a coherent strategy, not just a round of do-gooding,'' he wrote. ''Don't spend money rebuilding the old district structure.'' 
 In 2000, in a book titled ''It Takes a City,'' Hill and two other researchers laid out a new architecture for urban school reform that they called the Diverse Providers Strategy. Under this model, local school boards wouldn't run a school system hierarchically, the way they usually did; instead, they would oversee a ''portfolio'' of schools, some run directly by the board and many run on contract by nonprofits, universities or private companies. Schools would receive money on a per-student basis, and principals could then use that money to staff their schools as they liked and pay for whatever instructional methods they chose. Each school would negotiate salaries and work rules directly with its teachers. The system's small central office would be responsible only for oversight, though it would have considerable power to hold principals accountable: schools that didn't produce results would be closed, and successful schools would be imitated and replicated.
 It is this model that Pastorek and Vallas have adapted for New Orleans. Pastorek says that he wants the state's role to be that of a ''harvester of high-quality schools'' in the city -- nurturing promising ones and weeding out failing ones. ''If schools run into trouble, you support them,'' Pastorek said. ''But if they're still failing after you support them, then you pull the plug and bring in a new provider or an experienced provider. Over a period of 5 or 6 years, 10 at the most, we'll have nothing but high-quality operators in our city.''
 For now, though, the system on the ground in New Orleans is a bewildering tangle of interlocking organizational structures administering 86 public schools, only a minority of them directly controlled by Vallas. The law that expanded the Recovery School District, or R.S.D., allowed it to take over any ''failing'' school in the city, which meant virtually every school in the city except for the selective-admission magnets. Those magnets stayed as part of the rump version of the Orleans Parish School Board, an elected group that before the flood controlled the whole system and now controls just five schools and oversees 12 independently run charters. Two charter schools that existed before Katrina are overseen by the state school board. There are 33 charters under the supervision of the Recovery School District. And finally there are the 34 schools run directly by the R.S.D.
 Looked at one way, this jumble is a classic let-a-hundred-flowers-bloom portfolio system. But in practice, the system is inherently unequal, with each network administered by different rules. Most of the Orleans Parish schools and charters admit students on the basis of test scores and writing samples with, in some cases, preference given to residents of the well-off neighborhood surrounding the school. As a result, they include the only public schools in the city with any significant population of middle-class white students. (Those are also the best-performing schools, by a considerable margin.) Recovery School District charters are ''open enrollment,'' meaning they are required to accept students from anywhere in the city, regardless of academic performance. But the charters can apply some degree of selectivity too, by making the kind of demands that Miller-McCoy's principals plan to make on Tony Petite; weaker students and students with less academically focused parents sometimes can't stand the pressure and drop out. The schools run directly by the Recovery district, as a result, are the schools of last resort, the schools required to admit every student: the kids who can't get into selective schools, the ones who get kicked out of charter schools, the ones who arrive in New Orleans in the middle of the school year, the ones whose parents couldn't get it together to find them anything better. 
 Many parents and other observers have charged that the city's current structure has recreated and, in fact, codified the unfairness of the prestorm system, which was generally perceived to operate on two separate tiers of achievement and opportunity. According to a 2007 report commissioned by a coalition of civic groups, ''Community members believe that in the current system, a select group of students has the opportunity to attend high-quality public schools, while the vast majority of students -- for the most part poor and minority students -- are stuck in low-performing schools in which they have little opportunity for growth and development.'' In the Orleans Parish charters, 19 percent of students are deemed ''talented and gifted,'' compared with 1 percent of students in Recovery School District-run schools and charters. 
 It is one of the oddities of the organizational structure that governs public-school education in New Orleans today that Pastorek and Vallas, the high-paid hotshots at the top, are responsible for the schools with the biggest problems and the worst test scores, while the schools that are doing best are the ones furthest from their control, the ones they can claim the least credit for. What the two men will tell you, though, is that this is exactly the way things should be. Under a portfolio model, successful schools can be left alone to do their own thing, while failing schools are subject to increasingly active levels of, first, support and then control.
 Pastorek and Vallas are employing two parallel strategies for the Recovery School District. First, they're instituting a series of ambitious reforms in the district-run schools. They have expanded the school day by an hour and a half and are trying to extend the school year from 173 days to 193 days. This year teachers (who are working without a collective bargaining agreement) were each given a $3,000 raise. And in every school, principals and teachers are being trained in the ''best practices'' of the country's leading charter schools. One of Vallas's first acts as superintendent was to offer a prominent position to Gary Robichaux, a Louisiana native who, two weeks before Katrina, opened the first charter in New Orleans associated with the Knowledge Is Power Program (KIPP) schools, the best-known and arguably the most successful network of charter schools in the country. 
 Last summer, Vallas persuaded Robichaux to leave his new KIPP school in the French Quarter to oversee the Recovery School District's elementary and middle schools, and Robichaux is frank now about his intentions for his new job: he wants to apply as much of the KIPP model to the Recovery schools as he can. He has brought dozens of principals to visit the school he used to run, to observe the KIPP model up close, and this summer he conducted mandatory leadership training for the top administrators in each school. 
 Although Vallas is a believer, in theory, in decentralization, he and Robichaux are providing a great deal of centralized support for the schools in the Recovery School District. They have created a ''managed curriculum'' for every school in the district to follow: detailed binders that each teacher can consult to see which skills and what knowledge they should be imparting each week and month in order to keep up with the state's standards. The R.S.D. requires its schools to administer regular ''benchmarking'' assessments to each child in the district in each core subject, to monitor how much is being learned -- and taught -- in each classroom. 
 But at the same time that Pastorek and Vallas and Robichaux are trying to improve the R.S.D.'s direct-run schools, they are also helping to create a competitive framework citywide that will most likely drive many of those schools out of existence. Part of the competition comes from a new voucher program, pushed through by Gov. Bobby Jindal, that will pay for nearly 900 New Orleans elementary-school students to attend private and parochial schools this year. But the more significant lever of change is charters -- schools that get public money and are overseen by a government entity but are managed by an independent board. Pastorek, Vallas and Robichaux all say they expect charters to expand their presence in the district, to a point where 75 percent or even 90 percent of the city's schools are charters. 
 Their evolving plan would involve both the highest- and the lowest-performing schools in the Recovery School District becoming charters, though in different ways. Principals at high-performing Recovery district schools will be encouraged to apply for a charter that would let them run their schools independently -- essentially, to ''graduate'' out of the control of the district. On the other end of the performance scale, schools that consistently fall short of state standards, even after all of the training and support that Vallas can muster, will be seized by the R.S.D., which will either hand the school over to a new or existing charter-school provider or shut it down and replace it with a new charter school. Failing charter schools will also be taken over or closed down, by having their charters revoked or transferred to another charter provider.
 ''Over the long haul,'' Pastorek explained, ''the R.S.D. becomes an instrument that evaluates existing schools, supports existing schools, recommends the closure of schools and recommends the best operator to come in and take over, or the best operator to come in in place of that school. We put people in business, and we take people out of business.''
 One obvious potential problem with this vision of an almost entirely charterized district is that charter schools are not magic; on average, nationwide, charters don't do significantly better than traditional public schools. In New Orleans, however, there are some sound practical reasons for Pastorek and his team to feel confident about the prospects of a large-scale chartering program. A powerful alliance of nonprofits has emerged in the city, supported by money from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and other philanthropies, to recruit and train new charter operators and to help provide them the support and the personnel they need to set up and run consistently high-quality charter schools.
 At the center of this alliance is a well-financed organization called New Schools for New Orleans, run by a former KIPP executive and a former Teach for America administrator. This is the group that ''incubated'' Miller-McCoy Academy for a year, recruiting Hardrick and Sanders from Memphis and providing them with office space, money and expertise during their year of preparation, as well as continuing support as the academy grows. This month, five schools incubated at New Schools for New Orleans will open their doors, including Miller-McCoy; next year there will most likely be four more. The New Orleans office of New Leaders for New Schools, meanwhile, will be training a new group of principals each year; five of the six members of this year's ''class'' are going into positions leading charters. Teach for America's regional operation in Greater New Orleans is growing quickly; its incoming class is the second-largest one in the country after New York City's. Each year, the group plans to send 50 or more teachers into charters in the Recovery district, where they will serve as a well-educated and highly motivated, if inexperienced, labor force for the start-ups. (At the same time, Teach for America is sending 75 teachers this year into direct-run Recovery schools, where it perceives a greater need.) Finally, a group called teachNOLA recruited about 100 new teachers this year, mostly career-changing professionals, and three-quarters of them will work in charters. 
 Pastorek acknowledges that for superintendents across the country, shutting down failing schools has proved to be an exceptionally difficult undertaking. Aside from politically damaging visuals -- it's never good to have adorable children marching on your office, carrying signs saying, ''Please Save Our School'' -- it's hard to shut down even the worst school if you don't have something effective to replace it with. But Pastorek says he is determined not to flinch when it comes time to ''take people out of business.'' And the combined force of those four nonprofit human-capital pipelines will make it much easier, in coming years, for him to pull the trigger. Each year, he'll have a handful of new schools ready to open, each one led by a Gates-financed, fully incubated, KIPP-marinated principal like Sanders or Hardrick -- the kind of academic superheroes who before the storm just didn't come to work in New Orleans in big numbers. Inevitably, he'll make space for them. And before long, that annual handful will add up. In a city like New York, with its 1,400 public schools, new-school innovations can seem like pebbles tossed into the ocean. But in a city with fewer than 100 schools, 5 or 6 new schools a year will have a big impact. Right now there are probably 100 great charter schools scattered across the country; in a few years, Pastorek and his allies are asking, why can't there be 100 great charter schools in New Orleans?
 Pastorek's optimism and determination can be inspiring, but he admits that for now, at least, there's no proof that a portfolio model will do a significantly better job educating poor children than a command-and-control model. When I spoke last month to Diane Ravitch, a historian of education who has spent decades studying and writing about the often dispiriting process of school reform, she said that she was skeptical that a change in the governance model would solve the problems plaguing New Orleans's schools. ''The fundamental issue in American education -- I say this after 40 years of having read and studied and written about the problems -- is one that is demographic,'' she told me. Poor children, Ravitch said, simply face too many problems outside the classroom. ''If you don't buttress whatever happens in school with social and economic changes that give kids a better chance in life and put their families on a more stable footing, then schools alone are not going to solve the problems of poor student performance. There has to be a range of social and economic strategies to support and enhance whatever happens in school.''
 Last spring, I paid several visits to a ninth-grade English class on the second floor of Rabouin High, a Recovery School District-run school in downtown New Orleans, just a few blocks from the Superdome. The class was taught by Chelsea Schmitz, a 23-year-old Teach for America corps member who was in her first year as a teacher. Demographically, Schmitz was quite a bit different than her students -- white, blond and Midwestern -- but she seemed to have built a rapport with them, in part by encouraging them to write about their lives. The students all arrived in her classroom performing well below the mean; at the beginning of the school year, Schmitz gave her ninth-grade students a set of reading-comprehension tests, and only one was able to read above a sixth-grade level, with many scoring significantly below that. But their autobiographical poems were eloquent and powerful. 
 What was most striking to me, though, reading the poems and listening to the students read them aloud, was the depth of the social dysfunction they described. I expected grisly stories about Katrina and its aftermath, but most of the students wrote about the problems that existed in New Orleans both before and after the storm: friends killed, cousins shot dead, cocaine deals, abusive mothers, fathers in prison. I was impressed with Schmitz's ability to connect with and motivate her students, some of whom were only a few years younger than she was. But the task in front of her, to turn around the lives of these wounded and poorly educated adolescents, seemed daunting -- to me, if not to her.
 The long-running national debate over the potential impact of a teacher like Schmitz on the lives of children like the ones she faced at Rabouin resurfaced in June, when on consecutive days, two new advocacy organizations announced their formation, each calling for a very different solution to the problem of underachievement in school by poor minorities. One group called itself the Broader, Bolder Approach to Education; Ravitch was a signatory to that one, and the group's declaration echoed her belief that schools alone were no match for the problems of inner-city youth. The second group, led by Joel I. Klein, the New York City schools chancellor, and the Rev. Al Sharpton, was called the Education Equality Project; its declaration blamed not social woes but a broken education system for the failure of so many of the nation's schoolchildren. In the weeks after the announcements, Pastorek and Vallas both added their names to that declaration, and when I met with Pastorek, I asked him about it. What about the other group's argument? Was it really possible to solve the problems of New Orleans's children in the classroom without involving other social services and supports?
 ''It would be convenient to say that it's a whole lot of other people who need to be part of the equation,'' he replied. ''But we have the job. And we have to do something.'' Pastorek said he didn't want to fall back on the excuse that he had heard from many other school officials, in Louisiana and elsewhere -- that it was impossible to fix their schools until other social problems had first been corrected. 
 But then he switched direction somewhat. In many ways, he said, he was sympathetic to the Ravitch position. ''If we want to really get kids to the level that we want to get them,'' he said, ''and we want to do it in a more efficient and effective way, then we would be well served if we took care of those kinds of problems -- if we provided more resources to kids from conception to early childhood, if we took care of mental-health issues and physical ailments and teeth and eye examinations. Including, you know, where these kids go home to sleep at night. I've lived in this community a long time, and I can't imagine how I could ever feel comfortable in neighborhoods that these kids live in at night. And yet they do, and we still expect them to do well.'' 
 Pastorek paused for a moment. ''So, now, can I solve all those problems tomorrow afternoon? Can I even get the attention of the people who have control over those things? Right now, in New Orleans, after Katrina, the answer is no, I can't. But I can't take the position that I can't succeed unless I have those things. I have to take the position that we're going to do it in spite of that. Now, will it be hard? Will I be less successful? Probably yes. But I have to take that approach, because I don't have really any other cards to play.''
 Ideally, Pastorek told me, he would like to go back to the governor and the Legislature and ask for financing for a more comprehensive approach to the needs of his schoolchildren, but first, he needs to deliver some results with the money he has. ''If you want to get these schools from awful to good, you don't really need to put out much money,'' he said. ''But if you want to get them from good to great, you have to start spending some money. And that's where I think we are in the Recovery School District. We've got to get our schools from awful to good, and we've got to get there on the money that we've got, knowing damn good and well that it ain't enough. But if I can get them from awful to good, then I can command more money so I can get them from good to great. And I can command other resources and other partnerships with these other people who need to be at the table.''
 For now, it falls to teachers like Schmitz to do what they can with what they have. At Rabouin, there were metal detectors at the front door and frequent fights in the hallways. The high-tech whiteboard projector, which Vallas had installed in every Recovery district middle- and high-school classroom, was out of order in Schmitz's room when I visited, and its wires hung down from the ceiling. But Schmitz had set high goals for her classes -- she wanted each of her students to move up at least two grade levels in reading scores during the school year -- and she worked hard to figure out how to make those goals a reality. She started a 7:30 a.m. ''breakfast club'' for the students who had shown the most improvement in their schoolwork or their attitude. She invented a reward system in which she handed out raffle tickets, known as Schmitz stubs, for a variety of positive behaviors, from answering a question correctly to helping another student; each Friday, she raffled off prizes like gift certificates to Subway or McDonald's. At the end of the poetry unit, she took her students out to the Sound Cafe, a coffeehouse in the Bywater District, where they listened to slam poets and performed their own poems for an audience. She wasn't able to hold on to all of her students; some moved away from New Orleans, some dropped out. But some flourished.
 One Sunday afternoon in May, one of Schmitz's students, Ronnie Stewart, took me out to see the ruins of the B. W. Cooper public-housing complex, known more commonly as the Calliope projects, where he grew up. He and his family spent seven days trapped in their third-floor apartment by the flood that followed Katrina, until finally they were rescued by a Coast Guard boat. At one point, Stewart told me, when it looked as if help would never come, he and a couple of his cousins had to swim through the oily water that covered Martin Luther King Boulevard to get food and water and diapers for their family from a flooded convenience store. Now the projects are abandoned, surrounded by a tall barbed-wire fence and marked for demolition.
 Stewart, who is 18, was a senior; he was taking Schmitz's class because he never passed ninth-grade English. Before Katrina, he told me, his teachers never pushed him very hard. ''They always showed us the easy way to get through something,'' he said. ''How to get around it. That's why I think so many people are struggling now, schoolwise. Before the storm, we mostly had teachers just really trying to keep us in high school. No teacher was talking to us about college. But now they are. They're mostly trying to get us out of high school and into college now.''
 Stewart and his classmates gave Schmitz a hard time when she first arrived. ''We tried to get over on her, but she always cracked down,'' he said. ''She was always there for us, always telling me: 'Ronnie, do your work; Ronnie, what college are you going to? Ronnie, did you call the university?' I was like, I finally got a teacher that really cares about me.''
 The poetry unit had a big impact on Stewart. He wrote a poem called ''The Life of a Kid in New Orleans,'' describing the violence he had seen growing up: ''For me just stepping outside the door of my house means/I am taking the risk of seeing death.'' He memorized it and recited it, first for his classmates, then for a group of Schmitz's fellow Teach for America teachers and finally at the Sound Cafe. 
 At Schmitz's urging, Stewart applied to Southern University at New Orleans; beginning later this month, he plans to study criminal justice, a telling choice for a young man with two close friends in jail, one for rape and the other for murder. ''Miss Schmitz showed me that there's a lot more to the world than this,'' he said, gesturing at the crumbling concrete hulks behind him. ''If it wasn't for Miss Schmitz, I wouldn't be going to college now.''
 Earlier this month, the state released test results for every public school in New Orleans. There were signs of improvement: 43 percent of fourth-grade students in Recovery School District charters and district-run schools scored at or above grade level on the state English test, compared with 34 percent in the previous year. But the numbers revealed the great distance New Orleans still has to go; in the percentage of students scoring at or above grade level in 8th-grade math, 12th-grade math and 12th-grade English, not a single R.S.D. charter or district-run school beat the average for Louisiana as a whole -- and Louisiana is still among the lowest-performing states in the country. The gap between the system's different structures remained, too; 89 percent of the Orleans Parish schools matched or surpassed the state average in fourth-grade English, while just 13 percent of Recovery schools did the same.
 New Orleans's newly arrived reformers have set their sights high. New Leaders for New Schools says it hopes that in five years, half of the public schools in the city will be led by principals trained in their system, and they want their principals to attain 90 percent proficiency rates and 90 percent graduation rates within five years of taking the job. Given that proficiency rates in most schools in the Recovery district are currently below 40 percent, those results would represent an educational earthquake. Pastorek's goals are similarly ambitious; he sees a day in the not-too-distant future when the city's white children will return to integrate the public-school system, along with the children of the black middle class, all drawn by safer and higher-achieving schools and the introduction of programs like specialized academies and the International Baccalaureate program. 
 When I spoke to Frederick Hess, an education-policy analyst at the American Enterprise Institute, he cautioned against putting too much emphasis on a complete transformation of the city's school system. In the early 1990s, Hess worked as a teacher in Baton Rouge, and even then, he said, New Orleans was notorious for running an ''abysmal'' school district. ''So if we're now in a position where 20 or 40 or 50 percent of kids in New Orleans are attending good or even competent schools,'' he said, ''that to my mind is a significant win. 
 ''Of course, the folks down there are the last people to plant their flag on improving things for 30 percent of the kids,'' he went on. ''They're all world-changers. They're all straight from the Great Society. That's great, and I'm glad they've got huge ambitions, but the problem is that if they fall somewhat short of their goals, it will be very easy for critics of charter schooling or critics of Vallas or critics of New Leaders for New Schools or Teach for America to seize on the fact that we haven't seen 100 percent of students served in the way we'd like and to then try to impugn the entire set of reforms.''
 To Pastorek, the greater risk is the opposite problem -- that people in Louisiana will be comfortable with the modest successes that he expects over the next couple of years. ''Right now, a lot of people believe that you just can't succeed with some kids,'' he said. He told me about a recent conversation with a ''senior-ranking'' state senator who served on the Legislature's education committee. ''He had this idea in mind where we have to have a dual-track system, a track for the kids who are going to make it, and a track for the kids who aren't going to make it,'' he said. ''There's an assumption that there is a group of kids who won't make it.'' A big part of Pastorek's job, as he sees it, is to convince Louisianans that that isn't true. 
 Kira Orange Jones is one of Hess's world-changers. Born in Co-op City in the Bronx, she joined Teach for America after college and was sent to Baton Rouge, where she spent the next two years teaching fourth grade. She earned a master's in education from Harvard, and then in 2006 she returned to New York and started work as the head of new-site development for Teach for America. In the spring of 2007, when she was 27, she flew to New Orleans for a two-day conference, and by the end of the second day, she had made the decision to pack up her apartment and move down to run Teach for America's operation in Greater New Orleans.
 When I spoke to Orange Jones last spring, I asked her if she agreed with Hess that there was a danger in setting high expectations for what she and others might achieve in New Orleans. ''Yes, there's a risk,'' she said, nodding. ''But there's no real alternative. The reality is that we have a window of opportunity to innovate and to take risks that other places in the country don't have. But if within a matter of years we aren't able to produce the results, that window will close. So we need to maximize this moment to do the work that should have been done a long time ago.''
 When I asked Paul Vallas what made New Orleans such a promising place for educational reform, he told me that it was because he had no ''institutional obstacles'' -- no school board, no collective bargaining agreement, a teachers' union with very little power. ''No one tells me how long my school day should be or my school year should be,'' he said. ''Nobody tells me who to hire or who not to hire. I can hire the most talented people. I can promote people based on merit and based on performance. I can dismiss people if they're chronically nonattending or if they're simply not performing.''
 To Orange Jones, though, questions about the shape of the city's education bureaucracy -- charter versus noncharter, union versus nonunion, centralized or decentralized -- were all somewhat beside the point. What really mattered, she said, was the work that was going on in individual classrooms, between teachers and the students who needed their help.
 In a few weeks, 250 new college graduates would arrive to begin their assignments teaching in and around New Orleans, and it was Orange Jones's job to make sure they had everything they needed to connect with their students. During the selection process, she said, she interviewed dozens of them, and those conversations made her feel optimistic. ''When I hear the stories of why they're joining usin New Orleans, it is really powerful,'' she said. ''They just deeply believe that what we're taking on in the education realm is feasible.''
 Of course, Orange Jones added, that didn't mean that the job ahead of them would be easy. ''The test scores in New Orleans may have been higher this year than they have been in 10 years,'' she said. ''But the reality is that they're not nearly as high as they need to be.'' 
 We were sitting in Orange Jones's office on the sixth floor of K&B Plaza, which looks out on the hotels and office buildings of downtown New Orleans. The rapidly expanding Teach for America staff had moved in just a few days earlier, after outgrowing their previous space, and many of the offices and cubicles were still stacked with boxes. It had been almost exactly a year since Orange Jones arrived in New Orleans, and when she looked around her, all she could see was everything that still had to be done. 
 ''We have a long way to go, frankly,'' she said. ''I mean, that sort of goes without saying. But we have to start somewhere.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: It's a whole new school year for Tony Petite, age 12, who enrolled this month in Miller-McCoy Academy, one of the new breed of New Orleans charter schools. Miller-McCoy, now housed in portable buildings, is also new for his principals, Tiffany Hardrick (left) and Keith Sanders. (Photograph by Brady Fontenot) (pg. 31)
The Reformer: Paul Vallas, after stints running Chicago's school system and then Philadelphia's, has come to New Orleans as superintendent of the Recovery School District. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT STIRTON/REPORTAGE, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 33) In Session: Principal John Alford with students from Langston Hughes Academy Charter School. Like many of the newer charters, Langston Hughes received support from the education nonprofits like Teach for America and New Schools for New Orleans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT STIRTON / REPORTAGE , FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 34)
Setting Goals: Chelsea Schmitz introduced poetry readings to try to help improve her 9th-grade student's test scores.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT STIRTON / REPORTAGE , FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 36)
 Taking a Risk: Two days in New Orleans persuaded Kira Orange Jones to move there to run the local Teach for America chapter.(pg. 37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HURRICANES (68%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



431 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: House to Rethink Drilling, Pelosi Says

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Dropping her opposition to a vote on coastal oil exploration, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Saturday that the House would consider expanded offshore drilling as part of broad energy legislation when Congress returns next month.
 In the weekly Democratic radio address, Ms. Pelosi criticized Republicans as focusing too narrowly on offshore drilling as a solution to high gasoline prices, but said she would bow to demands that the House revisit a drilling ban that has been imposed annually since the 1980s.
 She said legislation being assembled by Democrats ''will consider opening portions of the Outer Continental Shelf for drilling, with appropriate safeguards, and without taxpayer subsidies to big oil.'' 
 ''We hope our Republican colleagues will join in a bipartisan effort, not only to increase domestic supply, but also to help consumers and to protect the environment,'' Ms. Pelosi said in the broadcast.
 The decision came after growing anxiety among Democrats that Republicans were scoring politically with their call for a vote on offshore drilling. Though Congress is on its August break, a rotating group of House Republicans has rallied daily on the House floor, demanding that Ms. Pelosi call lawmakers back for a vote to allow oil companies to pursue offshore resources.
 While Ms. Pelosi is relenting despite her longtime opposition to drilling off the coast of California, her home state, Republicans may not get the vote they wanted. Expanded coastal drilling would be just one element of a broader bill that would also contain provisions opposed by Republicans, including a requirement that utilities produce a certain amount of electricity through renewable fuels. Democrats could also impose rules denying Republicans a chance to offer changes to the measure.
 Ms. Pelosi, who rarely delivers the radio address, said other elements of the Democratic measure would include requiring a release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in an effort to quickly lower gas prices and a proposal intended to cut down on speculation in energy futures.
 Republicans quickly dismissed the Democratic approach.
 ''If Speaker Pelosi and her Democratic colleagues were truly serious about increasing production of American energy and lowering the price of gasoline, they would call Congress back into session immediately to vote on our 'all of the above' energy plan, rather than taking a five-week break away from Washington,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. He called the speaker's proposal ''another flawed plan that will do little to lower gas prices.'' 
 But the Democratic measure, which officials said was still being written, could take some of the steam out of Republican charges that Democrats are being obstinate in blocking new drilling despite the cost of fuel. And Democrats will try to portray Republicans as unwilling to compromise should they refuse to consider Democratic alternatives after Democrats gave some ground on offshore drilling.
 ''We are going to put them to the test on this issue,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. 
 Democratic aides said the expectation was that a bill would reach the floor quickly after Congress returns in early September. They said that it was unclear how the legislation would address the coastal drilling ban, but that it could take the form of an existing proposal that allows states to decide whether drilling should take place off their shores.
 Congress has banned new oil drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and in the Gulf of Mexico off the Florida coast for decades by restricting spending on leasing programs in the annual spending bill for the Interior Department, which oversees drilling on federal lands. Since her election to Congress in 1987, Ms. Pelosi has fought efforts to expand drilling off California and in recent weeks has adamantly refused to entertain a vote on new coastal exploration, saying Republicans were simply trying to shift attention from Bush administration energy policies.
 ''During the past eight years, our energy policy has been directed by the two oil men in the White House,'' Ms. Pelosi said in her radio remarks. ''Their failed policy has increased our dependence on foreign oil, damaged our economy, and left consumers paying record prices at the pump.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nancy Pelosi, long opposed to coastal exploration, said Democrats would consider some drilling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUTURES (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); BIOFUELS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



432 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: In Forum at Church, Rivals Meet Briefly and Part Sharply on Social Issues

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LAKE FOREST, Calif. 

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama shared the stage for only 36 seconds at a forum on Saturday, but in separate interviews gave a preview of the fall debates, offering sharply contrasting responses on social issues and personal world views .
 On the stage at Saddleback Church, an evangelical megachurch here, they briefly hugged each other and smiled, belying a nastier campaign between them that has taken place long-distance and over the airwaves. 
 The hug was preceded by an hourlong interview with Mr. Obama and followed by an hourlong interview with Mr. McCain in the vast, warehouselike church before an attentive, enthusiastic audience of 2,200 people.
 Asked what their biggest moral failings were, Mr. Obama referred to his ''difficult youth'' when, he said, he experimented with drugs and drank alcohol. ''I trace this to a certain selfishness on my part,'' he said. ''I couldn't focus on other people.''
 Mr. McCain pointed to his first marriage, which he almost never does publicly.
 ''My greatest moral failing, and I have been a very imperfect person, is the failure of my first marriage,'' he said gravely.
 The candidates were interviewed by the Rev. Rick Warren, one of the most popular evangelical pastors in the country and the author of ''The Purpose Driven Life.'' The forum, which Mr. Warren arranged through calls to the candidates, whom he knows, reflected the importance of religion in American life and politics.
 It also marked the coming of age of a broader brand of evangelicalism that is more socially minded and diverse than the orthodox religious movement of the Christian right. Mr. Warren embodies the changing of the guard of that movement, away from traditionalist figures like Pat Robertson, and the scope of his questions reflected those broader interests.
 Mr. Warren asked Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, which of the sitting Supreme Court justices he would not have appointed. Mr. Obama quickly named Justice Clarence Thomas, saying he was not qualified for the top court at the time. 
 ''I don't think that he was a strong enough jurist or legal thinker at the time for that elevation, setting aside the fact that I profoundly disagree with his interpretations of the Constitution,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, named all the liberal judges on the court and noted that there might be several vacancies soon. ''This nomination should be based on the criteria on a proven record of strictly adhering to the Constitution and not legislating from the bench,'' he said.
 Asked what was the most significant issue he had changed his mind on in the last 10 years, Mr. Obama cited the 1996 welfare reform bill signed by President Bill Clinton. He said that he initially opposed it because he believed it would have ''disastrous results,'' denying millions of women economic support, but that he now believed the law had been largely successful.
 Mr. McCain pointed to offshore drilling. ''We've got to drill now; we've got to drill here,'' he said, and took a poke at Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Republican of California, who opposes it. ''I know there are some here in Cal-eee-fornia that disagree with that position,'' he said, mimicking the governor's accent.
 Mr. McCain received the more rousing response from the audience, made up largely of church members here in Orange County, one of the most conservative areas in the country. He told more anecdotes but also filibustered more. One of the few points when Mr. McCain left the audience silent was when he said he favored stem-cell research.
 Mr. Obama skirted a question about when life begins, saying that determining such a thing was above his pay grade and sending murmurs throughout the audience. Mr. McCain said simply, ''At the moment of conception.''
 Asked to define marriage, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain gave the same answer: that it is the union between a man and a woman.
 But Mr. Obama also said he opposed a constitutional amendment defining marriage that narrowly and said he supported same-sex civil unions. ''For gay partners to visit each other in the hospital, I don't think limits my core beliefs about what marriage is,'' he said. 
 Mr. McCain said courts in California were wrong to approve same-sex marriages but also said somewhat vaguely that that ''doesn't mean people can't enter into legal agreements.'' 
 Mr. Warren, who has made millions of dollars on his books, asked Mr. Obama to define ''rich.'' In one of his lighter moments, Mr. Obama responded impishly, ''Well, if you've got book sales of $25 million... .'' Mr. Obama, too, has made millions from his books; Mr. Warren reached across the desk and gave Mr. Obama a high five. The Democrat then said that under his tax plans, all American families making less than $150,000 a year are considered middle class or poor and would receive a tax break.
 Mr. McCain said that ''rich'' should mean people who are happy and avoided putting a precise price tag on the term, finally jokingly tossing out a figure of $5 million.
 On abortion, Mr. Obama declared: ''I am pro-choice, I believe in Roe vs. Wade, not because I'm pro-abortion but because ultimately I don't think women make these decisions casually.'' He also said, ''I am in favor on limits on late-term abortion if there is an exception for the woman's health.'' 
 Mr. McCain said he was ''pro-life'' and would be a ''pro-life president.''
 Asked to name three people on whom they depended for sage advice, Mr. Obama named his wife, Michelle, and his maternal grandmother. For a third, he named lawmakers as varied as Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a liberal Democrat, and Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, a conservative Republican who opposes abortion rights.
 Mr. McCain named Gen. David H. Petreaus, who led American troops in Iraq; John Lewis, the veteran civil-rights leader, and Meg Whitman, former chief executive of eBay who is also a top adviser to his campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators John McCain and Barack Obama on Saturday with the Rev. Rick Warren, a best-selling author, at the evangelical Saddleback Church. Mr. Warren interviewed each candidate for an hour. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); JUDGES (62%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



433 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: French Plans For Energy Reaffirm Nuclear Path

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting from Paris, and Matthew L. Wald from Washington.

DATELINE: FLAMANVILLE, France 

 BODY:
It looks like an ordinary building site, but for the two massive, rounded concrete shells looming above the ocean, like dusty mushrooms.
 Here on the Normandy coast, France is building its newest nuclear reactor, the first in 10 years, costing $5.1 billion. But already, President Nicolas Sarkozy has announced that France will build another like it.
 Flamanville is a vivid example of the French choice for nuclear power, made in the late 1950s by Charles de Gaulle, intensified during the oil shocks of the 1970s and maintained despite the nightmarish nuclear accidents of Three Mile Island and Chernobyl.
 Nuclear power provides 77 percent of France's electricity, according to the government, and relatively few public doubts are expressed in a country with little coal, oil or natural gas. 
 With the wildly fluctuating cost of oil, anxiety over global warming from burning fossil fuels and new concerns about the impact of biofuels on the price of food for the poor, nuclear energy is getting a second look in countries like the United States and Britain. Even Germany, committed to phasing out nuclear power by 2021, is debating whether to change its mind.
 France is way ahead. Electricite de France, or EDF, is in talks to buy British Energy, for about $24 billion, to renovate Britain's nuclear plants and build new ones. The French have already contracted to build a third-generation European Pressurized Reactor of the Flamanville type -- the world's safest and most powerful -- in Abu Dhabi and China. 
 There is pride in French exceptionalism and in the technical skill that has produced an industry with no major accidents. In a recent op-ed article in Le Figaro, for example, Yves Threard boasted: ''France hasn't any oil, but she knew how to exploit a rich idea. In the whirlwind of globalization, civil nuclear power became a weapon, commercial and political, that allowed the country to remain at the avant-garde in the concert of nations.''
 A senior aide to Jean-Louis Borloo, the minister of ecology, sustainable development and planning, said that France ''sees a wide trend developing'' toward more use of nuclear energy. 
 ''A lot of countries realize that with the rising price of fossil fuels and energy, and the climate emergency, nuclear can be part of the solution,'' said the aide, who spoke anonymously under the rules of his ministry.
 He said that France's choice for a ''closed fuel cycle'' -- reprocessing used nuclear fuel to recover plutonium made in the reactors so it can be reused -- was safer. ''This way, nuclear energy can bring a lot -- it's CO2-free energy.''
 Mr. Sarkozy said that each European Pressurized Reactor that ''replaces a gas-powered electricity plant saves two billion cubic meters of gas each year, and each E.P.R. replacing a coal plant means cutting 11 million tons of CO2.'' 
 France generates half of its own total energy, up from 23 percent in 1973, despite increased consumption.
 Electrical power generation accounts for only 10 percent of France's greenhouse gases, compared with an average of 40 percent in other industrialized countries, according to EDF.
 France has 58 operating nuclear reactors, the highest number of any nation besides the United States. In America, where nuclear construction has been moribund, there is also new interest. At the moment, 19.4 percent of the electricity generated in the United States is from 104 nuclear plants, according to the Department of Energy. 
 The Nuclear Regulatory Agency has in hand or expects applications to build 34 reactors, of which seven are European pressurized water reactors of the Flamanville type -- and, unlike current American reactors, allow output to vary to meet fluctuating demand. 
 The Flamanville reactor is based on a French-German design, which itself is based on an earlier Westinghouse design. EDF has an American partner, Constellation Energy, to sell the new model as a joint venture called UniStar Nuclear, which has already ordered some of the larger parts for one reactor. Ironically, its main competitor is Westinghouse, now owned by Toshiba.
 For all the happy talk in France, however, there are continuing doubts and confusion about nuclear power, accentuated by a series of accidents and alerts in July. At a nuclear plant in Tricastin, in Provence, 163 pounds of untreated uranium in liquid leaked from a faulty tank during a draining operation, seeping into the ground and then into rivers that flow into the Rhone. 
 While the two-year-old Authority for Nuclear Security, an independent body overseeing civilian nuclear activities, called it a category one (out of seven) incident that posed no health risk, the local prefect banned fishing, irrigation, swimming and the use of well water. The ban lasted 14 days, and the government criticized Areva, the nuclear group that is mostly state-owned, for not informing local authorities quickly or adequately. The treatment station, which was old, was being replaced, and remains shut.
 Other minor accidents occurred in quick succession: a burst underground pipe at another site north of Tricastin, which leaked a tiny amount of uranium inside plant grounds, and then another accident at Tricastin itself, when 100 employees were contaminated by radioactive particles that escaped from a pipe.
 The government, Areva and EDF have played down the accidents. Mr. Borloo said there were 86 category-one nuclear incidents in France in 2007 and 114 in 2006. Mr. Borloo's aide, pointing to the Authority for Nuclear Security, said the Tricastin ''microevent'' showed that ''our system of security is extremely responsive and transparent, and that the media and public opinion needed a training period to understand how the system of nuclear security works in France.''
 Still, there is continuing nervousness. Sales of bottled water increased, and even a nearby appellation of local wine, Coteaux du Tricastin, is exploring whether to change its name, according to Henri Bour, who runs the local wine council.
 A prominent French anti-nuclear lobby, Sortir du Nucleaire, is pressing to phase out nuclear power, which it considers too dangerous and too expensive because of the need to manage nuclear waste. The group wants a ''sustainable transition'' to renewable energy options like solar, hydro and wind power. Last year, on the 21st anniversary of the Chernobyl meltdown, 30 protesters at Flamanville blocked entrances and chained themselves to cranes.
 There have also been some construction issues. In April, the Authority for Nuclear Safety criticized some of the welds and the quality of the concrete work at Flamanville, but work resumed in June. Philippe Leynie, the site manager here for EDF, said the problem involved missing pins on the metal rebar and was not serious.
 Nonetheless, an IFOP opinion poll conducted for Le Monde after the Tricastin leaks showed that 67 percent of the French considered it vital to keep nuclear power in the country's energy mix, compared with 52 percent in 2002. Only 27 percent judged the risks of nuclear energy to be the most worrying, compared with 50 percent who thought global warming was the predominant risk. In 2002, 33 percent worried most about nuclear risks and only 20 percent about global warming.
 For Flamanville, though, a village of 1,780 people, nuclear power has re-energized the town. There are no pretty beaches here, just granite cliffs above a cold sea. For hundreds of years, the village lived off the granite, cutting and selling it, shipping it first by boat, then by railroad. Flamanville granite, saidMayor Patrick Fauchon, was used to pave the Place de la Concorde in Paris.
 But by the middle of the 19th century it became too expensive compared with other sources, and the village survived by digging iron from an undersea mine, said Mr. Fauchon, who has been mayor since 1983. ''It was always a company town,'' he said.
 But the mine closed in 1962, and the population of the village dropped to 1,150 people. When the idea of a nuclear plant arose, in 1975, there was considerable debate. But residents voted for the nuclear plant, which meant new jobs.
 The granite cliffs and cold sea, while not hospitable to bathers, were ideal for these nuclear reactors, which need a hard foundation and access to plentiful cold water.
 Now, after so many years, a generation of workers here has already retired from the nuclear industry. 
 ''At the regional level, some towns accept having nuclear plants and others oil refineries,'' Mr. Fauchon said. ''I don't ask Bretons if they're happy about having pigsties and raising pigs, which creates another source of pollution.''
 Still, he thinks these days of the effect on towns that are losing their regiments as France's military modernizes. ''At least when we speak of energy, it's a permanent need,'' Mr. Fauchon said. ''When we speak of an industrial tool with a lifespan of 60 years, we have economic activity for two generations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: France is constructing a nuclear reactor, its first in 10 years, in Flamanville. France already has 58 operating nuclear reactors, the highest number of any country besides the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-MICHEL SICOT/LIBeRATION) (pg.A10) MAP: The building of the reactor has helped revive Flamanville. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); TRENDS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); BIOFUELS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (74%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD FOR THE POOR (56%)

TICKER: EDF (PAR) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (74%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (74%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (74%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (74%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); JEAN-LOUIS BORLOO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (72%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



434 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3327 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Swing Votes in the Boardroom

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE guests who sat down for lunch with Senator Barack Obama at the Fairmont Chicago hotel in June weren't his usual audience. It was also a closed-door affair -- no crowds, no reporters, no oratory -- and instead of speaking, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee mostly listened. But the nine men and two women dining with him were leaders of companies like Ford, JPMorgan Chase, Aetna and Duke Energy and were used to doing the talking anyway. 
 For Mr. Obama, the three-hour session marked the beginning of his campaign's plan to win over big business, a coterie usually associated with Republicans, not Democrats. Two weeks earlier, it had been Senator John McCain's turn to woo the business world. 
 With Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay (and now a co-chairwoman of the McCain campaign) introducing him, Mr. McCain extolled tax cuts, free trade and reduced government spending before an audience of 800 small-business owners in Washington. Despite the backing of well-known corporate honchos like Ms. Whitman and Carleton S. Fiorina, the former head of Hewlett-Packard, Mr. McCain spoke out for the little people. 
 ''For too long,'' he said, ''government has been the voice of big business, not small business.''
 As both candidates prepare for the party conventions and publicly spar over economic issues and energy policy, a different battle is taking shape behind the scenes: winning the hearts and minds of America's business leaders.
 Because the 2008 campaign coincides with an unusual confluence of economic events, the outreach goes beyond usual appeals to corporate leaders who are also major employers, big donors and opinion leaders with a global platform. The surge in oil prices, the housing collapse, staggering Wall Street losses and consumer anxiety have caused voters to put their pocketbooks front and center, and an election once thought to hinge on national security issues and the Iraq war now may turn on how candidates handle a deeply troubled economy. 
 According to John Zogby, a leading independent pollster, the economy ''is far and away the most important issue,'' with about 60 percent of people his organization has polled recently citing it as their top concern. Only about 20 percent of his respondents cited Iraq as their chief issue (which makes it second on the list of voter concerns).
 ''Voters don't like bad behavior on the part of C.E.O.'s, but economic populism really doesn't work'' as a campaign strategy, Mr. Zogby says. ''And both guys have to show leadership on the economy.''
 Lining up the support of chief executives and their small-business brethren offers both candidates a chance to bolster their economic credentials while sending voters the message that they're ready to be the nation's chief executive. The courtship goes both ways. For executives in industries like energy, health care and banking who face the possibility of new regulations, a smooth working relationship with the White House isn't just desirable; it's essential.
 AS different as the resumes of the two candidates are, the two men have something in common in this quest: a standing start. Mr. McCain wasn't the first choice of business -- that was his vanquished rival for the nomination, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts -- and Mr. McCain himself has acknowledged that economics is not his ''strong suit.'' 
 Similarly, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton locked up support from Wall Street titans like John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley and Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs during the hard-fought primary contest with Mr. Obama, whose relatively brief time on the national stage never allowed him to acquire a gold-plated Rolodex.
 ''Both candidates present a considerable unknown for business,'' says John J. Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, a corporate advocacy group made up of chief executives overseeing companies that collectively generate $4.5 trillion in sales, employ 10 million workers and pay 40 percent of all corporate income taxes in the country. 
 Mr. McCain is hard to predict because his positions are not uniformly pro-big business, Mr. Castellani says, and in the past he has criticized outsize executive pay. Mr. Obama, according to Mr. Castellani, has to build bridges with business because he is a relative unknown.
 Naturally, both sides want what's now a flirtation to blossom into a full-blown partnership. ''They have to be seen as thoughtful, responsible stewards of economic policy who can get along with business and talk to business,'' Mr. Castellani adds. ''It's what they need and what we need.''
 Still, reaching out to corporate America is a balancing act that carries rewards and risks for both candidates. 
 For Mr. McCain, the support of Ms. Whitman and Ms. Fiorina, as well as other executives like John T. Chambers of Cisco Systems and John A. Thain of Merrill Lynch, helps offset the perception that he's more adept at foreign policy and national security than economic issues. But it leaves him vulnerable to accusations of cozying up to special interests, just as critics from President Bush on down blame Wall Street for the excesses that created the housing bust.
 In any event, big business isn't Mr. McCain's natural constituency, Ms. Whitman says. His personal manner and his political storyline of being a maverick outsider are anything but corporate. Instead, Mr. McCain is tilting toward small business, with his campaign calculating that he will be the default choice of big business anyway.
 ''John talks to and cares about big business, but he has the greatest affinity for small business, which creates more than 70 percent of the jobs in this country,'' Ms. Whitman says. ''His entire lens on economic policy is job creation and small business.''
 Mr. Obama faces his own challenges. Though he criticized companies as having a ''quick kill'' mentality in a speech at the Nasdaq exchange last year -- and more recently blamed a lack of regulation of investment banks and mortgage providers for the housing crisis -- some of Wall Street's biggest names are flocking to Mr. Obama.
 According to his advisers, Mr. Obama began formally courting the Street in June 2007, just as the mortgage crisis was gathering steam. Mr. Obama's Wall Street support now includes Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, and more recently, veteran financiers who supported Mrs. Clinton, like Steven Rattner, Blair W. Effron and Roger C. Altman.
 Big-business endorsements can help inoculate Mr. Obama against the accusation that he's a tax-and-spend liberal. ''I've gotten calls for a year and half saying: 'Tell me about this guy. How do you know him?' '' says William M. Daley, who served as secretary of commerce in the Clinton administration before returning to Chicago, where he is a senior executive with JPMorgan Chase. 
 Mr. Daley, who is a national co-chairman of Mr. Obama's campaign as well as the son and brother of Chicago mayors, says that by introducing the candidate to chief executives and featuring him alongside other well-known business leaders, the campaign can reassure voters who don't know where he stands on economic issues and ''raise their comfort level.''
 Like Mr. McCain, Mr. Obama risks inviting criticism for pandering to special interests, especially when it comes to anyone linked to the housing mess. One prominent adviser, the former Fannie Mae chief executive James A. Johnson, left the campaign in June amid a furor over mortgages he received on favorable terms from the Countrywide Financial Corporation. 
 No matter who wins in November, it's clear that solving challenges like escalating health care and energy costs will require close cooperation between corporate leaders and Washington.
 ''It's a shared responsibility,'' says Ronald A. Williams, the chief executive of Aetna and a participant in the Chicago lunch with Mr. Obama. ''It will take a public-private partnership.'' 
 MR. McCAIN is not a straight-down-the-line corporate Republican candidate. His political hero, he has said, is Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican who had an appetite for occasionally taking on big business. For his part, Mr. McCain has advocated so-called say-on-pay legislation to require that all aspects of chief executive pay, including severance packages, be approved by shareholders.
 But once he became the presumptive Republican nominee, he began shoring up his corporate network. He reached out to business leaders who had been for Mr. Romney, like Ms. Whitman, whom he called in late February.
 Ms. Whitman advises the campaign on policy and communications strategy and does some fund-raising. She met Mr. McCain about five years ago, she said, when the issue of taxing Internet sales was being debated. Mr. McCain opposed taxes on online transactions, as do eBay and other Internet companies.
 ''I've long admired John McCain, and I told him I would be delighted to help him,'' Ms. Whitman recalls. ''And I said: 'I have good news for you, John. At the end of March, I'm stepping down as chief executive of eBay, so I'll have more time to work on the campaign.' ''
 On April 16 in Wisconsin, Mr. McCain met with a dozen Midwestern business leaders -- including the chief executives of General Mills, Wisconsin Energy and Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance -- to discuss economic policy. On May 22, he huddled with a group of entrepreneurs and executives in Silicon Valley, including Mr. Chambers and Ms. Whitman, to discuss innovation policy.
 Mr. McCain has been on the national stage for years, and his profile as an unapologetic free trader and tax cutter is clearly pro-business. But he has spent less time wooing big business than trying to mine the rich lode of votes among the nation's 26 million small businesses. 
 ''McCain's style makes the big-business crowd uncomfortable, but they will back him in the election because of his conservative, free-market policies,'' said Dan Schnur, director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, who worked on Mr. McCain's 2000 campaign. ''The small-business crowd likes him for reasons of both policy and persona.'' 
 In June, Mr. McCain spoke to hundreds of small-business owners at a gathering in Washington convened by the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group. ''That was John McCain's core constituency in that room,'' Ms. Whitman says.
 Mr. McCain began the meeting with a characteristic bit of self-deprecating humor. ''I have never run a small, struggling business -- unless you count my presidential campaign last year,'' he said. He then presented an economic game plan filled with tax cuts and tax credits, including ones for individuals and families to buy their own health care. He praised the virtues of free trade but also called for improved federal aid for workers whose jobs have moved overseas. 
 At the conference, Mr. McCain said Republicans needed to reclaim their legacy as the party of fiscal restraint while also elevating the role that government can play in the economy. His goal, he said, is ''not to denigrate government but to make it better, not to deride it but to restore its good name.''
 Mike Nobis, president of JK Creative Printers and Mailing, a printing company in Quincy, Ill., attended the Washington gathering and said recently that his most pressing business concern was the cost of health care for his 42 employees, which he estimated had soared 150 percent in the last five years. 
 Mr. Nobis voted for George W. Bush in the last two presidential elections and calls himself conservative, but he says he has not yet decided how he will vote this time. For the McCain campaign, though, he seems a good prospect. 
 ''He's not a real polished individual, and that's good,'' Mr. Nobis says. ''When he tells you something, I think he really means it.''
 As an emissary to small business, Ms. Whitman herself is a natural, given that the company she ran, eBay, is an Internet marketplace for so many entrepreneurial merchants. Yet Ms. Whitman, of course, can also tap her extensive chief executive network.
 The highest-profile member of Mr. McCain's corporate team is Ms. Fiorina, who is chairwoman of the Republican National Committee's Victory '08 campaign to support the party's presidential and Congressional candidates. She often travels with the campaign, making speeches and media appearances as a self-described ''top advocate'' for Mr. McCain. Though she appears less in public, Ms. Whitman is working for the campaign nearly full time. The other senior members of the McCain corporate club -- Frederick W. Smith of FedEx, Mr. Chambers of Cisco and Mr. Thain of Merrill -- are sitting chief executives and are mainly offering policy advice and fund-raising. 
 MR. OBAMA'S leading ambassadors to the business world are Mr. Daley and Penny Pritzker, a leading Chicago businesswoman whose family founded the Hyatt hotel chain and who serves as the national finance chairwoman of his campaign. Mr. Daley and Ms. Pritzker have known Mr. Obama for years and have often appeared on television or at campaign functions on his behalf.
 But the foot soldiers in his effort are a small cadre of executives who aren't as well known and, in some cases, were once firm backers of Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Obama's kitchen cabinet of business types also includes a younger generation of Wall Street bankers.
 ''Barack tended to attract the younger, up-and-coming leaders at big firms, and people in private equity,'' says Michael Froman, a Citigroup executive who was a classmate of Mr. Obama's at Harvard Law School and is one of his key informal economic advisers. ''Many of them had an interest in economic policy as well. We didn't have as many gray hairs at the table, so there was room for them.''
 Typical of this breed is Mark T. Gallogly, co-founder of Centerbridge Partners, a private equity firm. He met Mr. Obama at a dinner two years ago and says he quickly ''became convinced he was someone I wanted to back.''
 ''He was remarkably clear-eyed and thoughtful about what the country needed to do,'' Mr. Gallogly adds.
 In June 2007, Mr. Gallogly was co-host for a dinner at Johnny's Half Shell in Washington with Mr. Fink, inviting guests like Richard S. Fuld Jr., chief executive of Lehman Brothers; Paul Volcker, the former Fed chairman; C. Robert Henrikson, the chief executive of MetLife; and Jerry I. Speyer, the New York real estate tycoon.
 Mr. Obama impressed his audience, according to Mr. Fink. Mr. Volcker met him there for the first time and subsequently endorsed him. And Mr. Fink, who was enthusiastic but not convinced before the dinner, was also sold.
 About two months ago, Mr. Obama asked Ms. Pritzker and Mr. Daley to broaden his business network. Formal approaches, according to Ms. Pritzker, grew out of the June lunch in Chicago, which included Obama allies like Ann Fudge, the former C.E.O. of Young & Rubicam Brands, and Rob Glaser, the chief executive of RealNetworks. There were also neutral executives like Allan R. Mulally of Ford and James A. Bell, the chief financial officer of Boeing. 
 James Dimon, the chief of JPMorgan Chase, was another attendee, and although he can't endorse either candidate because he is a director of the New York Fed, he is privately for Mr. Obama, said fellow Wall Streeters who requested anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss the issue. 
 Mr. Daley acknowledges that it can be an uphill battle. ''Face it,'' he says, ''most businesspeople at the big-business level areRepublicans, either knee-jerk or born into it.'' To lead the effort, Ms. Pritzker and Mr. Daley have turned to Mr. Gallogly, Mr. Rattner, Mr. Effron, Ms. Fudge and Robert Wolf, president of UBS Investment Bank. 
 While Obama campaign advisers are quick to say there is no separate or special outreach effort aimed at black businesspeople, at the same time the campaign is seeking to build on what they see as an outpouring of support from black business executives like Ms. Fudge and Charles E. Phillips Jr., the president of Oracle.
 Within the tech world, another attractive constituency, executives have also been heavily wooed. Although he hasn't yet endorsed Mr. Obama, Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, has also emerged as an influential figure in the eyes of the Obama camp. ''He conveys generational change,'' Mr. Daley says of Mr. Schmidt, ''and no one has wrapped himself around the new technology and the new fund-raising space like Obama. So to that crowd, this is a message.''
 In Washington a month after the lunch in Chicago, Mr. Obama convened a slightly more public roundtable on the economy that featured Mr. Schmidt, as well as Indra K. Nooyi, the chief executive of PepsiCo; Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary; and Warren E. Buffett, who dialed in. Mr. Buffett, the respected Omaha investor, declined to comment, but he has raised money for Mr. Obama and has informally advised his campaign on economic policy.
 Mr. Schmidt was impressed by Mr. Obama. ''He listened more than he talked, which is always a good thing,'' Mr. Schmidt says. ''He clearly sees himself as a clever synthesizer of other people's ideas. And I think that is an important skill in a president.''
 EVEN as the candidates and big business woo each other, whatever relationship evolves may not ultimately be as smooth as that of President Bush or, for that matter, former President Bill Clinton. 
 ''I don't think Senator Obama has an agenda for big business,'' Mr. Daley says. ''He's trying to affect the overall economy, and he's got to find a way to help people who are worse off. I don't think he loses any sleep worrying about how to craft a policy just for big business, nor should he, and I say that as a former commerce secretary.''
 As a campaigner, Mr. McCain has often struck populist, anticorporate themes in railing against Wall Street greed and lofty chief executive pay. Still, his proposals on taxes, trade and restraint in government spending resonate with big business. ''I don't agree with Senator McCain on everything,'' said Mr. Smith, the FedEx chief, who is also a campaign co-chairman. ''But on the big issues that will determine whether the U.S. is prosperous and whether we improve the living standards of working people, I think he's right.''
 Now, both candidates are refining their proposals in an attempt to address the country's thorniest economic challenges in decades.
 Mr. McCain's tax plan could prove a windfall for corporate America. He has proposed trimming corporate rates to 25 percent from 35 percent. In his Senate career, Mr. McCain has a voting record that is 82 percent pro-business, as calculated by the United States Chamber of Commerce. Its rating for Mr. Obama, by contrast, is 42 percent.
 Mr. Obama's team counters that further corporate tax cuts would worsen the deficit, estimated at roughly $400 billion for fiscal 2008. Instead, Mr. Obama has said he would be open to reducing overall corporate tax rates if existing loopholes could be closed.
 On broader economic policy, the McCain campaign has signaled that it generally favors further deregulation, while Mr. Obama is likely to back a more aggressive regulatory approach. 
 As the party conventions near, it is likely that the mating dance with business will intensify. Mr. McCain will continue trying to adapt to the Internet age by bringing more tech leaders on board, while Mr. Obama builds on his Wall Street base with appeals to supporters of clean energy (and, if he is lucky enough to get them, a few smokestack-industry bosses, too).
 For business leaders, the stakes will also remain high. That's among the reasons that Mr. Williams of Aetna rearranged his schedule at the last minute to join the June lunch with Mr. Obama.
 Although he doesn't intend to endorse either candidate, Mr. Williams said he flew from Connecticut to Chicago ''to share our point of view.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain and Barack Obama are aiming to bolster their economic credentials by garnering support from business giants.
Henry R. Kravis: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Policy advice, fund-raising
Carleton S. Fiorina: Formerly of Hewlett-Packard Policy advice,campaigning
John A. Thain: Merrill Lynch Fund-raising, policy advice
Meg Whitman: Formerly of eBay Policy advice, campaign strategy
Scott G. McNealy: Sun Microsystems Policy advice
Frederick W. Smith: FedEx Policy advice, fund-raising
John T. Chambers: Cisco Systems Fund-raising, policy advice
William M. Daley: JPMorgan Chase Campaign strategy, outreach
Eric E. Schmidt: Google Policy advice
Michael Froman: Citigroup Policy advice, outreach
Penny Pritzker: Hyatt Fund-raising, outreach
Steven Rattner: Quadrangle Outreach, fund-raising
Ann Fudge: Formerly of Young & Rubicam Outreach
Laurence D. Fink: BlackRock Endorser (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE HE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN CEDENO/BLOOMBERG NEWS (McCAIN) AND CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES (OBAMA))(BU1)
Businesspeople like Carleton S. Fiorina, formerly of Hewlett-Packard, lend John McCain economic credentials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Barack Obama has met with executives like Indra K. Nooyi of PepsiCo and Eric E. Schmidt of Google. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WOMEN (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); DUK (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (90%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (89%); JOHN THAIN (79%); FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%); HENRY KRAVIS (59%); LAURENCE D FINK (53%); INDRA K NOOYI (53%); STEVEN RATTNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



435 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Russia Is Not Jamaica

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 America's back in the cold war and W.'s back on vacation.
 Talk about your fearful symmetry.
 After eight years, the president's gut remains gullible. He'll go out as he came in -- ignoring reality; failing to foresee, prevent or even prepare for disasters; misinterpreting intelligence reports; misreading people; and handling crises in ways that makes them exponentially worse.
 He has spent 469 days of his presidency kicking back at his ranch, and 450 days cavorting at Camp David. And there's still time to mountain-bike through another historic disaster. 
 As Russian troops continued to manhandle parts of Georgia on Friday, President Bush chastised Russian leaders that ''bullying and intimidation are not acceptable ways to conduct foreign policy in the 21st century'' -- and then flew off to Crawford. 
 His words might have carried more weight if he, Cheney and Rummy had not kicked off the 21st century with a ham-fisted display of global bullying and intimidation modeled after Sherman's march through the other Georgia.
 We knew we could count on the cheerleader in chief to be jumping around like a kid in Beijing with bikini-clad beach volleyball players while the Re-Evil Empire was sending columns of tanks into its former republic. (Georgia made the mistake of baiting the bear.)
 If only W. had taken the rest of his presidency as seriously as he's taken his sports outings.
 When I interviewed him at the start of his first presidential run in 1999, he took an obvious shot and told me, ''I believe the big issues are going to be China and Russia.'' 
 But after 9/11, he let Cheney, Rummy and the neocons gull him into a destructive obsession with Iraq. While America has been bogged down and bled dry, China and Russia are plumping up. China has bought so much of America that we'd be dead Peking ducks if they pulled their investments out of our market, and Russia has transformed itself from a pauper nation to a land filled with millionaires -- all through our addiction to oil. 
 What was so galling about watching W.'s giddy sightseeing at the Olympics was that it underscored China's rise as a superpower and, thanks to the administration's derelict foreign and economic policies, America's fade-out. It's as though China has become us and we've become Europe. Like Russia, China has also been showing jagged authoritarian ways and ignoring America's preaching, including W.'s tame criticism as he flew into Beijing to revel in the spectacle of China's ascension.
 Despite his 1999 prediction that Russia and China would be key to security in the world, W. never bothered to study up on them. In 2006, at the Group of Eight summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, a microphone caught some of the inane remarks of W. to the Chinese president, Hu Jintao.
 ''This is your neighborhood,'' W. said. ''It doesn't take you long to get home. How long does it take you to get home? Eight hours? Me, too. Russia's a big country and you're a big country.''
 President Bush and his Russian ''expert'' Condi have played it completely wrong with Russia from the start. W. saw a ''trustworthy'' soul in a razor-eyed K.G.B. agent who has never been a good guy for a single hour. Now the Bush crowd, which can do nothing about it, is blustering about how Russian aggression ''must not go unanswered,'' as Cheney put it. (W.'s other Russian expert, Bob Gates, was, as always, the only voice of realism, noting, ''I don't see any prospect for the use of military force by the United States in this situation.'')
 The Bush administration may have a sentimental attachment to Georgia because it sent 2,000 troops to Iraq as part of the fig-leaf Coalition of the Willing, and because Poppy Bush and James Baker were close to Georgia's first president, Eduard Shevardnadze.
 But with this country's military and moral force so depleted, the Bushies can hardly tell Russia to stop doing what they themselves did in Iraq: unilaterally invade a country against the will of the world to scare the bejesus out of some leaders in the region they didn't like.
 W. and Condi are suddenly waking up to how vicious Vladimir is. In a press conference with Condi on Friday, Mikheil Saakashvili, the president of Georgia, chided the West for enabling Russia to resume its repressive tactics.
 ''Unfortunately, today we are looking evil directly in the eye,'' he said. ''And today this evil is very strong, very nasty and very dangerous, for everybody, not only for us.''
 As Michael Specter, the New Yorker writer who has written extensively about Russia, observed: ''There was a brief five-year period when we could get away with treating Russia like Jamaica -- that's over. Now we have to deal with them like grown-ups who have more nuclear weapons than anybody except us.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BULLYING (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (87%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%) CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



436 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Obama Backers Mobilize in Bid to Wrest State From Republican Grip

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. 

 BODY:
Under a scorching sun, hundreds of people lined up recently in a parking lot here to pick up free back-to-school supplies being distributed by a local radio station. Bobbing among the shade umbrellas were a handful of workers for Senator Barack Obama, carrying clipboards and voter registration forms.
 On Monday night, others fanned out at a movie screening for surfers in Wrightsville Beach. They descended on a street festival in Asheville. When oil companies posted record profits, Obama supporters showed up at gas stations here with registration forms.
 Despite the relentless heat, and midsummer lull, the Obama campaign is mobilizing in North Carolina. The state is one of half a dozen once-solid Republican bastions, including Georgia, Indiana and Virginia, where Democrats now sniff opportunity to expand the electoral map. 
 They hope that North Carolina's growth, especially among high-tech workers in Research Triangle Park, will help change voting patterns that are decades old. But the Obama strategy relies on a surge among black voters and young people, two groups that have not turned out in great numbers in recent elections.
 To that end, the organization of Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has been conducting an intense registration drive, appearing wherever people gather, as well as singling out potential voters in neighborhoods and online, and reaching out to undecided voters. It has also reactivated the extensive volunteer network it built before crushing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton here in the May primary, and it is already running television commercials.
 The campaign of the presumed Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, by contrast, has been barely visible. But his camp says it is getting in gear, and it has history on its side.
 North Carolina has not voted for a Democrat for president since Jimmy Carter in 1976. Even with John Edwards, then one of the state's senators, on the ticket in 2004, the Democrats lost here in a landslide. But they say the state is ripe this year for picking. 
 ''The dynamics here are different than they ever have been,'' said Mr. Obama's state director, Marc Farinella, pointing to the influx of about 600,000 people since 2004.
 Mr. Farinella said the Obama campaign would take advantage of this through an aggressive ground game and would speak to both affluent workers and those upended by trade policies that have cost the state tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs. The campaign will also try to exploit Mr. McCain's opposition to a $300 billion farm bill approved by Congress. 
 ''The race here will wind up being very tight,'' Mr. Farinella said. ''But I believe we'll wind up ahead -- we've got the volunteers, the excitement, his call for economic change, the trade issue. A lot of these things make North Carolina fertile territory for us.''
 Mr. McCain's political director and deputy campaign manager, Mike DuHaime, said the state was still fundamentally conservative.
 ''I don't disavow that on paper this could be closer than last time, and Obama is spending money,'' he said. ''My question is, can you move this 13, 14 points from where you were when you had a North Carolinian on the ticket?'' a reference to the vote spread in 2004 when Mr. Edwards and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts lost to President Bush, 56 percent to 43.6 percent.
 The average of the latest polls here, as of Wednesday, showed Mr. McCain with a lead of 4.3 percentage points over Mr. Obama, a difference that is barely significant statistically. One unknown with a black candidate on the ballot here is whether voters are telling pollsters the truth about how they intend to vote. 
 Another is whether Mr. Edwards's recently admitted affair will create a backlash against Democrats. 
 Mr. Obama has spent more than $1.9 million on television commercials here since mid-June. He has opened 16 offices in the state since early July.
 His blueprint calls for deploying 625 teams, of four to six volunteers each, to blanket the state's 2,762 electoral precincts. So far, more than half the teams are in place, each with captains who are committed to contributing at least 10 hours a week. Almost 6,000 volunteers are actively engaged to some degree.
 Obama headquarters in Chicago would not confirm the number of paid staff members it had in the various states, but the number in North Carolina is believed to be close to the estimated 150 it has deployed in another battleground state, Missouri, where Mr. McCain is two points ahead. 
 By contrast, the McCain campaign, which has less money, is relying heavily for resources on the state party and the Republican National Committee. With their help, the McCain campaign opened its office here in the capital on Monday, and six others in the last two weeks. It has a dozen paid staff members and has spent nothing on local television.
 Democratic registration in the state is soaring, with 45,000 new registrants since May, and 7,000 new Republicans. About 44,000 have registered as unaffiliated.
 Gary Bartlett, executive director of the State Board of Elections, said he expected more than six million people to be registered by the fall and that 4 million to 4.2 million would vote, up from 3.5 million who voted in 2004.
 Analysts say the key here for Mr. Obama will be raising the percentage of blacks who vote and winning over more whites than Democrats have previously.
 ''Definitely, there is the real potential for black voters to become a more substantial part of the electorate this year,'' said Tom Jensen, a Democratic pollster. ''And that's what it will take.''
 In 2000, blacks made up 17.3 percent of the vote, and in 2004 they made up 18.6 percent, according to the state elections board. To win this year, by Mr. Jensen's calculations, Mr. Obama needs blacks to make up 23 percent of the electorate while also winning at least 35 percent of the white vote. Others say he may need more. 
 So far, the rate of black registration (up 9.8 percent over 2004) is outpacing white registration (up 4.6 percent), but at the current rate blacks would make up only 20 percent of the electorate. 
 Bob Barr of Georgia, who is running for president as a Libertarian, may be a factor here in draining white votes from Mr. McCain. That could be a boon to Mr. Obama and might mean he could win with less than 50 percent of the total.
 Raising the percentage of white voters could be a challenge for him, as it was in the primaries. In 2004, Mr. Kerry won about 32 percent of the state's white vote, Mr. Jensen said. 
 Some of Mr. Obama's positions, like his view that affirmative action should be applied by class, not race, and that the death penalty is acceptable in some cases, may appeal to these voters.
 Other positions, like his support for some regulation of guns, could prove more problematic. Gov. Michael F. Easley, a Democrat who had supported Mrs. Clinton and now backs Mr. Obama, was asked how the ''Hank Hills'' of the world might vote, a reference to the animated television character who embodies small-town conservative values. ''The jury is still out on Obama,'' he said. ''They're watching.''
 But Mr. Easley said Mr. Obama could win by focusing on economic issues. ''If people see Barack Obama watching out for them on the economy,'' the governor said, ''they'll vote for him.''
 While Democrats often win state and local elections, they have a harder time at the national level. Usually they are perceived as more liberal than most North Carolinians, said Ferrel Guillory, an expert on Southern politics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, particularly on the bedrock issues of ''guns, God and gays.''
 ''Democrats who get elected in North Carolina are not Northeastern liberal Democrats,'' he said. In states like North Carolina, the McCain campaign is likely to make the cultural divide the fault line in November. 
 ''Democrats who are successful in North Carolina and Virginia and other conservative states tend to be centrists and moderates, especially on the Second Amendment,'' Mr. DuHaime of the McCain camp said. ''No one would describe Obama as a centrist.''
 But the Obama organization is steadily gaining recruits and putting them to work. 
 Jennifer Lasater, 38, a project manager at a software company here, donated $25 online to the campaign recently and then joined a registration drive through a breast-cancer awareness event. Now she is canvassing and calling voters and at night entering voter information into the campaign's extensive voter database. 
 ''The thought that North Carolina could vote for a Democrat made me think that if there's something I could do to make that happen, that would be valuable,'' Ms. Lasater said. ''I figure, if my mother-in-law, who is fairly conservative, told me out of the blue that she was planning to vote for Obama, he has a chance in this state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Obama campaign has invested large amounts of resources in North Carolina, which traditionally votes Republican. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14)
Marc Farinella, the campaign director for Senator Barack Obama in North Carolina, says the state is ''fertile territory for us.''
Rodney and Cheryl Ellis, shown with their children, are among the volunteers for the Obama campaign in North Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) CHART: HOW NORTH CAROLINA VOTED IN PRESIDENTIAL RACES (Source: Dave Leip's At
as of U.S. Presidential Elections.) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SURFING (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%); JIMMY CARTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (72%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



437 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: The Candidate We Still Don't Know

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AS I went on vacation at the end of July, Barack Obama was leading John McCain by three to four percentage points in national polls. When I returned last week he still was. But lo and behold, a whole new plot twist had rolled off the bloviation assembly line in those intervening two weeks: Obama had lost the election!
 The poor guy should be winning in a landslide against the despised party of Bush-Cheney, and he's not. He should be passing the 50 percent mark in polls, and he's not. He's been done in by that ad with Britney and Paris and by a new international crisis that allows McCain to again flex his Manchurian Candidate military cred. Let the neocons identify a new battleground for igniting World War III, whether Baghdad or Tehran or Moscow, and McCain gets with the program as if Angela Lansbury has just dealt him the Queen of Hearts. 
 Obama has also been defeated by racism (again). He can't connect and ''close the deal'' with ordinary Americans too doltish to comprehend a multicultural biography that includes what Cokie Roberts of ABC News has damned as the ''foreign, exotic place'' of Hawaii. As The Economist sums up the received wisdom, ''lunch-pail Ohio Democrats'' find Obama's ideas of change ''airy-fairy'' and are all asking, ''Who on earth is this guy?''
 It seems almost churlish to look at some actual facts. No presidential candidate was breaking the 50 percent mark in mid-August polls in 2004 or 2000. Obama's average lead of three to four points is marginally larger than both John Kerry's and Al Gore's leads then (each was winning by one point in Gallupsurveys). Obama is also ahead of Ronald Reagan in mid-August 1980 (40 percent to Jimmy Carter's 46). At Pollster.com, which aggregates polls and gauges the electoral count, Obama as of Friday stood at 284 electoral votes, McCain at 169. That means McCain could win all 85 electoral votes in current toss-up states and still lose the election.
 Yet surely, we keep hearing, Obama should be running away with the thing. Even Michael Dukakis was beating the first George Bush by 17 percentage points in the summer of 1988. Of course, were Obama ahead by 17 points today, the same prognosticators now fussing over his narrow lead would be predicting that the arrogant and presumptuous Obama was destined to squander that landslide on vacation and tank just like his hapless predecessor. 
 The truth is we have no idea what will happen in November. But for the sake of argument, let's posit that one thread of the Obama-is-doomed scenario is right: His lead should be huge in a year when the G.O.P. is in such disrepute that at least eight of the party's own senatorial incumbents are skipping their own convention, the fail-safe way to avoid being caught near the Larry Craig Memorial Men's Room at the Twin Cities airport. 
 So why isn't Obama romping? The obvious answer -- and both the excessively genteel Obama campaign and a too-compliant press bear responsibility for it -- is that the public doesn't know who on earth John McCain is. The most revealing poll this month by far is the Pew Research Center survey finding that 48 percent of Americans feel they're ''hearing too much'' about Obama. Pew found that only 26 percent feel that way about McCain, and that nearly 4 in 10 Americans feel they hear too little about him. It's past time for that pressing educational need to be met.
 What is widely known is the skin-deep, out-of-date McCain image. As this fairy tale has it, the hero who survived the Hanoi Hilton has stood up as rebelliously in Washington as he did to his Vietnamese captors. He strenuously opposed the execution of the Iraq war; he slammed the president's response to Katrina; he fought the ''agents of intolerance'' of the religious right; he crusaded against the G.O.P. House leader Tom DeLay, the criminal lobbyist Jack Abramoff and their coterie of influence-peddlers.
 With the exception of McCain's imprisonment in Vietnam, every aspect of this profile in courage is inaccurate or defunct. 
 McCain never called for Donald Rumsfeld to be fired and didn't start criticizing the war plan until late August 2003, nearly four months after ''Mission Accomplished.'' By then the growing insurgency was undeniable. On the day Hurricane Katrina hit, McCain laughed it up with the oblivious president at a birthday photo-op in Arizona. McCain didn't get to New Orleans for another six months and didn't sharply express public criticism of the Bush response to the calamity until this April, when he traveled to the Gulf Coast in desperate search of election-year pageantry surrounding him with black extras. 
 McCain long ago embraced the right's agents of intolerance, even spending months courting the Rev. John Hagee, whose fringe views about Roman Catholics and the Holocaust were known to anyone who can use the Internet. (Once the McCain campaign discovered YouTube, it ditched Hagee.) On Monday McCain is scheduled to appear at an Atlanta fund-raiser being promoted by Ralph Reed, who is not only the former aide de camp to one of the agents of intolerance McCain once vilified (Pat Robertson) but is also the former Abramoff acolyte showcased in McCain's own Senate investigation of Indian casino lobbying. 
 Though the McCain campaign announceda new no-lobbyists policy three months after The Washington Post's February report that lobbyists were ''essentially running'' the whole operation, the fact remains that McCain's top officials and fund-raisers have past financial ties to nearly every domestic and foreign flashpoint, from Fannie Mae to Blackwater to Ahmad Chalabi to the government of Georgia. No sooner does McCain flip-flop on oil drilling than a bevy of Hess Oil family members and executives, not to mention a lowly Hess office manager and his wife, each give a maximum $28,500 to the Republican Party. 
 While reporters at The Post and The New York Times have been vetting McCain, many others give him a free pass. Their default cliche is to present him as the Old Faithful everyone already knows. They routinely salute his ''independence,'' his ''maverick image'' and his ''renegade reputation'' -- as the hackneyed script was reiterated by Karl Rove in a Wall Street Journal op-ed column last week. At Talking Points Memo, the essential blog vigilantly pursuing the McCain revelations often ignored elsewhere, Josh Marshall accurately observes that the Republican candidate is ''graded on a curve.'' 
 Most Americans still don't know, as Marshall writes, that on the campaign trail ''McCain frequently forgets key elements of policies, gets countries' names wrong, forgets things he's said only hours or days before and is frequently just confused.'' Most Americans still don't know it is precisely for this reason that the McCain campaign has now shut down the press's previously unfettered access to the candidate on the Straight Talk Express. 
 To appreciate the discrepancy in what we know about McCain and Obama, merely look at the coverage of the potential first ladies. We have heard too much indeed about Michelle Obama's Princeton thesis, her pay raises at the University of Chicago hospital, her statement about being ''proud'' of her country and the false rumor of a video of her ranting about ''whitey.'' But we still haven't been inside Cindy McCain's taxreturns, all her multiple homes or private plane. The Los Angeles Times reported in June that Hensley & Company, the enormous beer distributorship she controls, ''lobbies regulatory agencies on alcohol issues that involve public health and safety,'' in opposition to groups like Mothers Against Drunk Driving. The McCain campaign told The Times that Mrs. McCain's future role in her beer empire won't be revealed before the election. 
 Some of those who know McCain best -- Republicans -- are tougher on him than the press is. Rita Hauser, who was a Bush financial chairwoman in New York in 2000 and served on the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board in the administration's first term, joined other players in the G.O.P. establishment in forming Republicans for Obama last week. Why? The leadership qualities she admires in Obama -- temperament, sustained judgment, the ability to play well with others -- are missing in McCain. ''He doesn't listen carefully to people and make reasoned judgments,'' Hauser told me. ''If John says 'I'm going with so and so,' you can't count on that the next morning,'' she complained, adding, ''That's not the man we want for president.''
 McCain has even prompted alarms from the right's own favorite hit man du jour: Jerome Corsi, who Swift-boated John Kerry as co-author of ''Unfit to Command'' in 2004 and who is trying to do the same to Obama in his newly minted best seller, ''The Obama Nation.'' 
 Corsi's writings have been repeatedly promoted by Sean Hannity on Fox News; Corsi's publisher, Mary Matalin, has praised her author's ''scholarship.'' If Republican warriors like Hannity and Matalin think so highly of Corsi's research into Obama, then perhaps we should take seriously Corsi's scholarship about McCain. In recent articles at worldnetdaily.com, Corsi has claimed (among other charges) that the McCain campaign received ''strong'' financial support from a ''group tied to Al Qaeda'' and that ''McCain's personal fortune traces back to organized crime in Arizona.''
 As everyone says, polls are meaningless in the summers of election years. Especially this year, when there's one candidate whose real story has yet to be fully told. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); AL GORE (56%); JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



438 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: How's Life For Giuliani These Days? Quite Busy

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani has long been a quantifier. When he sought to tackle crime as New York City's mayor, he measured it, mapped it and picked his tactics based on those calculations.
 When he lost his first race for public office in 1989, he obsessed on what went wrong, figured out where he stumbled and drew lessons that, he says, helped him get elected mayor four years later.
 But now, Mr. Giuliani says, he has been too busy rebuilding his business and promoting the candidacy of Senator John McCain to put much effort into examining how he went from presidential front-runner to afterthought in a few short months. 
 The consuming focus on Florida and the absence of effort in New Hampshire -- those are not matters that Mr. Giuliani says he has spent any time exploring, choosing instead to embrace the concept that it was not that he failed but that he was overtaken by a solid opponent who ran a better campaign. 
 ''If you lose to somebody you think should not be president, it is much harder,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''I am not going to say Hillary did, but she sure sounded like she did,'' he said in an interview last week that was one of the few times in which he has discussed his campaign at any length. 
 Whether Mr. Giuliani is at peace or in denial, his disinclination to look in the rearview mirror seems to have made it easier to embrace his post-primary role as one of Mr. McCain's chief supporters.
 Day after day, he is on the radio and on television serving as Mr. McCain's ally, critiquing the likely Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama, more bluntly than would be politic if the candidate himself did it.
 In the past week alone, Mr. Giuliani has done more than a dozen radio interviews, appeared on two cable channels, called in to a national McCain rally and has been the host of a fund-raiser for Mr. McCain.
 In addition to having a prime-time speaking role at the Republican National Convention next month, Mr. Giuliani will also make his presence felt at the Democratic convention this month. 
 He is planning on being in Denver during Mr. Obama's anticipated nomination, ready to appear before the cameras to counter whatever the Democrat's message might be. 
 While Mr. McCain has many prominent surrogates pushing his message, the McCain campaign said Mr. Giuliani was unique in the attention he can attract from the news media. 
 Another Republican who had sought the party's nomination, Mitt Romney, became a national figure during the primary campaign and has been an enthusiastic McCain supporter after a bitter contest. But Mr. Giuliani was a national figure long before the race began.
 ''The mayor has enormous credibility on the issues, knows the candidate's record and is exceedingly gracious with his valuable time,'' said Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain.
 As the fall campaign heats up, Mr. Giuliani expects to be devoting more of his time to it, he said. 
 For now, he said, he is trying to concentrate on his business interests: Giuliani Partners, the management and security consulting firm he founded, and Bracewell & Giuliani, the law firm where he is a partner. 
 So these days Mr. Giuliani's calendar is full. Some might say too full.
 ''I have done this all my life,'' he said. ''I have three, four, five things all going on at once.'' Mr. Giuliani said his time on the campaign trail obviously took a toll on Giuliani Partners, in part because he and those around him were convinced that he was going to win.
 ''There was a certain amount of decline when I was running,'' he said. ''There was the anticipation that I would not be around. I thought I was going to be the nominee.''
 Pointing to his rather limited powers of political prognostication, Mr. Giuliani noted with a laugh that he was also convinced that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton would be his opponent.
 It was clear to observers that his campaign was in trouble in the months before the Iowa caucuses, but it was not until his loss in the New Hampshire primary that Mr. Giuliani himself began to talk about getting out of the race, former aides said.
 ''There was a general sense coming out of New Hampshire that things were not looking good,'' said one former aide, who declined to be quoted by name to avoid angering his former employer. ''Once the campaign was over, he was happy to let go. When the decision was made to concede, 90 percent of the questions were about how to do it in a way that would help McCain. He didn't spend a lot of time on the couch, down in the dumps.''
 The day after Mr. Giuliani finished a distant third in Florida, Mr. Romney still posed a challenge to Mr. McCain, and Mr. Giuliani flew to California to appear by Mr. McCain's side.
 After a brief respite to unwind, Mr. Giuliani quickly threw himself back into his business ventures. Much of the current work at Giuliani Partners, he said, is devoted to working with companies on energy matters. When he is in New York City, he said, he alternates between spending mornings at Giuliani Partners and afternoons at Bracewell. 
 He is also spending a lot of time overseas since he ended his campaign, having traveled to London, Ukraine, Switzerland, Japan and Kazakhstan, where Bracewell has an office.
 In a reflection that his marquee power may have faded somewhat, Mr. Giuliani is not as much of a presence on the speaking circuit as he was before he entered the race, though he said he spoke recently in Italy and the Philippines. 
 The success of Giuliani Partners has always hinged on Mr. Giuliani's having an outsize public profile, and his frequent appearances have the added benefit of keeping his name in the headlines. Still, he is happy to be no longer under the intense scrutiny he experienced while running for national office. 
 Despite his focus on being a businessman again, Mr. Giuliani does not appear ready to give up the thought of a future in public office.
 He has been mentioned as a possible attorney general should Mr. McCain win, but former Giuliani aides say he may be wary of the kind of questioning a nomination like that would bring, especially if both houses of Congress are controlled by Democrats.
 ''He was 80 percent vetted in the campaign,'' the former aide said. But a potentially hostile confirmation process could be complicated by his varied business dealings, often with foreign companies.
 The more likely possibility, friends and former aides said, was running for governor of New York.
 Mr. Giuliani's announcement in July that he was going to start a state political action committee to raise money for New York Republicans renewed speculation that he was already thinking about making a run.
 Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant who is not working for the Obama campaign, said Mr. Giuliani's presidential campaign began with such outsize expectations from the way he captured the spotlight after 9/11 that he was bound to crash to earth.
 ''He was America's mayor when disaster loomed large,'' Mr. Sheinkopf said, but as voters learned about his less glorious moments, and his complicated personal life, they found that ''Superman was human.''
 If he were to run for office in New York, Mr. Sheinkopf said, the lesson of his presidential race should be that he cannot run as ''America's mayor'' but as someone who can come in at a time of crisis and fix hard problems. 
 One immediate problem Mr. Giuliani would face would be the difficult situation for the state's Republicans, who could lose control of the Senate, their last stronghold in Albany, in November.
 Playing such a high-profile role for Mr. McCain could haunt Mr. Giuliani in a New York contest. Many of the conservatives he has become close to onthe McCain campaign could prove toxic among New York voters.
 For now, Mr. Giuliani insists he is focused on his business interests and working to get Mr. McCain elected.
 ''When I think about the future, I think about developing my business, with plans going out two to three years,'' he said. ''That is where my mind is focused.''
 ''My state of mind is that I really enjoy what I am doing,'' he said. ''I enjoy the business, going all around the country, all around the world.'' 
 Still, if he makes another bid for political office, he said, he would have to take a harder look at his last campaign. ''I would go through a much more thorough analysis,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Giuliani at the Swiss Economic Forum in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER SCHNEIDER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



439 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Walk This Way

BYLINE: By DAVID RAKOFF. 
David Rakoff is the author, most recently, of ''Don't Get Too Comfortable.''

 BODY:
STATE legislators were called back to Albany from their summer vacations for an emergency economic session to make ready for a lean stint that David A. Paterson, New York's governor, has promised ''will get worse before it gets better.'' Wall Street, which accounts for 20 percent of the state's fortunes, is in decline. Tax revenues from 16 of the state's largest banks fell to $5 million from $173 million in just one year. 
 In other words, New York City is about to get interesting again. Those who regret having moved here too late, having witnessed only her metastasized proliferation of glass-walled condos and cupcake purveyors, can take heart at the prospect of shuttered libraries, underfinanced schools and grimy hospitals. Those bygone days of ''Midnight Cowboy'' grit might soon be upon us once more. Why, if you squint just a little bit, you can almost see Verdi Square changing back into ''needle park.'' 
 There is one austerity measure, however, that has always been an ineluctable part of living here: walking. And it's still the very best way to get around.
 Walking effectively is not unlike driving, minus the vehicle (or so I'm guessing; I've never had a driver's license in my life). There are speeders and road hogs. There is rage. And most important, there are rules. Unwritten, certainly. Unspoken (politely, at least) until now. Since there will be so many more of us taking to the streets, some checks and balances are in order to avoid complete mayhem. Herewith, just a few from the Unofficial New York City Walkers' Code. Learn them. Follow them.
 CHOOSE A LANE: Yes, there are lanes. If you see something you like in a shop window, check your blind spot and, when it's safe to do so, shift over. (Happily, soon the stores will have closed, their windows boarded over, or smashed and empty from the latest blackout looting, rendering this rule as anachronistic as the requirement that men remove their hats in an elevator when a lady enters.)
 NO TAILGATING: Walking too closely behind someone for more than a block is irksome. Either pick up the pace and pass (on the left), or hang back. There should ideally be a compact car's length between you and the next person. (Disregard this rule at rush hour.)
 Indeed, close formations of any sort are best avoided. If you insist on walking three abreast, then listen carefully for the frustrated footfalls of those trying to get around your phalanx. 
 DON'T EVEN THINK OF PARKING HERE: Running into people you know is one of the great pleasures of life in a crowded metropolis. When you see a friend, take an ambulatory hiatus and step to the side. This is doubly required in the case of strollers. Similarly, unless your dog files an individual tax return, it is inappropriate bordering on immoral to block human progress by unreeling 30 feet of retractable leash across the pavement. 
 WE ARE NOT YOUR MOTHER: If you walk while texting or sending e-mail, thereby foisting the responsibility of avoiding collision onto the rest of us, you abrogate your rights as a walker. You, my friend, are a mere pedestrian. Whatever is on that saltine-sized screen is, I guarantee, not even fractionally as interesting as anything you might see out in the streets. Which leads to the lone daub of honey amid all this vinegar: 
 LOOK AROUND YOU: Every jaunt, every stroll, every errand brings you into contact with someone not like you. (Greetings, tinfoil-hat-wearing, manifesto-scribbling, profanity-spewing eccentric, fresh from your screening at MoMA!) Now -- make sure to stand to the side while you do this next bit -- look up. That old saw about craning your neck being what separates the visitors from the natives is nonsense. I've lived here for more than half of my 44 years, and I still rubberneck like a tourist. 
 See that thrilling array of cloud-dwelling spires, ziggurats and temples? Monuments, every one, to the age of relative plenty in which they were erected, and then mute sentinels during the inevitable subsequent downturns, from ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?'' to ''Ford to City: Drop Dead.'' They got through it. So will you. Start by putting one foot in front of the other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); DRIVERS LICENSES (66%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



440 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Life in the Time of Oprah

BYLINE: By JESSICA GROSE

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 ROBYN OKRANT'S rangy body, clad in the black tunic and dark-wash jeans that Oprah Winfrey mandated in the ''Shlumpadinka Makeovers'' episode of her talk show, was bent over the vision board she was creating on the floor of her apartment here. 
 A vision board is a collage, much like the magazine pastiches hanging in many teenagers' bedrooms, but the images and words here are meant to signify a 35-year-old woman's goals. Vision boards were promoted on the Feb. 6 episode of ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' and if Ms. Winfrey is to be believed, it will help Ms. Okrant realize her dreams by keeping them in the forefront of her mind. 
 Later that day, Ms. Okrant blogged about the vision board on her Web site, livingoprah.com, where she documents the experiment she began on Jan. 1: to live life according to the wellspring of advice that Ms. Winfrey offers on her show, her Web site and in O: The Oprah Magazine. In a mission statement, Ms. Okrant writes, ''I wonder, will I find bliss if I commit wholeheartedly to her lifestyle suggestions?'' 
 Her commitment is certainly unfaltering and, by some standards, unhinged. Even her mother, Marla Okrant, says, ''I didn't think it was possible for her to do it, or anyone to do it, for an entire year.'' 
 Ms. Okrant, a yoga teacher who recently completed an M.F.A. in performance at the Art Institute of Chicago, watches ''Oprah'' every day and reads the monthly magazine cover to cover. She follows the commandments of Ms. Winfrey with an exacting attention. If Oprah were to tell viewers that they must see ''27 Dresses,'' ''I go do it,'' Ms. Okrant said. ''If she merely says, 'Mary J. Blige's CD's are in stores today,' I don't buy it.'' 
 Ms. Okrant is tall (''I'm the same height as Tyra Banks,'' she said with a giggle) and has the deliberate movements of someone who uses her body for a living. There's a playful intensity to her dark brow when she speaks, which is freely and often. It's hard to believe that she is spending this year submitting to someone else's whims, even if that someone is the most influential woman in America. 
 ''With some of the things, like the clothes, in the beginning I was like, 'How dare she tell me what to wear! I'm an individual!' '' Ms. Okrant said. ''But recently, when I went shopping with my mom, I was really excited to fulfill some of the rules. I felt kind of proud of myself. It takes a huge amount of pressure off to be handed a spiritual path.'' 
 ''I'm kind of embarrassed to admit, but I can understand why people want it to be that way,'' she added.
 Ms. Winfrey's power, whether in the marketplace of books, fashion, beauty treatments or, this year, politics, is measurably enormous. Craig Garthwaite and Timothy Moore, economists at the University of Maryland, College Park, estimated that Ms. Winfrey's endorsement of Senator Barack Obama in the Democratic presidential primary season may have brought him more than one million votes.
 Ms. Okrant estimates she has spent over $2,000 in her Living Oprah project. She devotes about 40 hours a week to following Ms. Winfrey's commands, she said, but that doesn't include the advice she has absorbed about her most basic functions. ''Oprah says you must savor every meal, so now I eat more slowly,'' Ms. Okrant said. ''Before, I just vacuumed up my food.'' 
 Yes, like many a blogger before her, she hopes there is a book deal in all this; she has a literary agent. But Ms. Okrant says she won't cash a check from any deal that materializes before the end of year, so as not to skew her year as everywoman with an infusion of money. 
 ''It's about what it really feels like to take Oprah's word as gospel, and about what Robyn learns from this,'' her friend Grace Bulger said. 
 For the most part, Ms. Okrant is deadpan about her experiences following Ms. Winfrey's advice to the letter. She does not mock her guru's vast audience, but occasionally reflects on her blog about what they might really be seeking -- beyond a tip about summer reading. 
 ''I think they want her personal help, because they think she has the secret,'' she said about Ms. Winfrey. ''She has a private plane and she came from nothing. If she's lifted herself up from the horrible background she came from, she's got the key. When she gives advice it's sort of like doling out some of that.''
 But there is also a negative side to this power. ''Oprah's like the popular girl in high school who knows how to emotionally blackmail us,'' Ms. Okrant said. ''The way she'll deliver advice is, 'This will make you happy, unless you don't have enough self-esteem to do it.' ''
 She added: ''It's the illusion of free choice, but it's actually an absence of choice. When I'm told that it's my fault that something's not working, it's a little bit of a blow.''
 There's almost nothing Ms. Okrant doesn't consult Oprah about. If she has a fight with her husband, she looks up ''conflict management'' on the Oprah Web site. When she needs to cover the gray in her now glossy curls, she uses the hair dye that was recommended in the August 2008 issue of Ms. Winfrey's magazine. 
 A representative for Ms. Winfrey's company, Harpo Inc., said Ms. Okrant ''certainly takes brand dedication to new heights.'' 
 Ms. Okrant says she embarked on the project because she saw many women believing that every word of Ms. Winfrey's was gospel. She hoped to learn why her words carried such weight, even when they were contradictory at times. In the show's celebrated ''Favorite Things'' episodes, the audience is showered with stainless steel refrigerators and flat screen television sets. Yet, against these displays of materialism, Ms. Winfrey also freely dispenses spiritual advice.
 Such mixed messages have been ''a frustration we all feel with Oprah over the years,'' said Sarah Hepola, a lifestyle editor at Salon.com. ''She is a representative for the average woman,'' Ms. Hepola said before pointing out, ''At the same time that she is one of the richest people in the world.''
 ''I think there was a time,'' Ms. Hepola continued, ''when Oprah really lived by her advice, and I think that time was 1988.'' 
 Ms. Okrant refers to the ancillary advice-givers Ms. Winfrey regularly brings on the show as ''Oprah's lieutenants.'' She is surrounded by evidence of their counsel. Martha Beck, a life coach, had endorsed the vision board Ms. Okrant was painstakingly working on. 
 Ms. Okrant's husband, Jim Stevens, has been mostly supportive of her Oprah lifestyle. ''There's been some nice brownies and I enjoyed the decluttering project,'' he said.
 But he worries that his wife is changing. A self-described tank-tops-and-jeans girl, Ms. Okrant has become hyperconscious about her appearance, her husband said. ''I hear her comparing herself to something she saw on television, commenting on the way a piece of clothing fit or didn't fit,'' he said. ''She worried about being shlumpy, and the word 'shlumpadinka' was thrown around a lot.'' 
 For her part, Ms. Okrant isn't sure she will ever be able to get Ms. Winfrey's voice out of her head. ''That self-consciousness, it doesn't just turn off,'' she said, putting the finishing touches on her vision board. It contains a photo of the actress Tina Fey, because she, too, hopes to be considered for unconventional roles. There's a skeleton with a straight spine (she has scoliosis) and a set of impossibly perfect abs.
 She'd be happy for the washboard stomach, but one thing Ms. Okrant does not aspire to is to become Ms. Winfrey. Shortly after making the vision board, she wrote on her blog: ''Oprah said ... 'Isn't it a wonderful thing to have all your dreams come true?' I don't think there are many human beings on this planet who could possibly utter these words. ... I think if I ever get everything I want in life, then I'm not so sure I'd be so excited to wake up each morning. It's possibilities that keep me moving forward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN HARMONY: From Oprah Winfrey's lips to Robyn Okrant's ears and blog. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
AS SEEN ON TV: Robyn Okrant with her inspirational vision board.
 HER CUP OF TEA: Inspirational words are never far away. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); YOGA (50%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (94%); TYRA BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



441 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Tougher Race, Allies Ask Obama to Make 'Hope' Specific

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
As Senator Barack Obama prepares to accept the Democratic presidential nomination next week, party leaders in battleground states say the fight ahead against Senator John McCain looks tougher than they imagined, with Mr. Obama vulnerable on multiple fronts despite weeks of cross-country and overseas campaigning.
 These Democrats -- 15 governors, members of Congress and state party leaders -- say Mr. Obama has yet to convert his popularity among many Americans into solutions to crucial electoral challenges: showing ownership of an issue, like economic stewardship or national security; winning over supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton; and minimizing his race and experience level as concerns for voters.
 Mr. Obama has run for the last 18 months as the candidate of hope. Yet party leaders -- while enthusiastic about Mr. Obama and his state-by-state campaign operations -- say he must do more to convince the many undecided Democrats and independents that he would address their financial anxieties rather than run, by and large, as an agent of change -- given that change, they note, is not an issue. 
 ''I particularly hope he strengthens his economic message -- even Senator Obama can speak more clearly and specifically about the kitchen-table, bread-and-butter issues like high energy costs,'' said Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio. ''It's fine to tell people about hope and change, but you have to have plenty of concrete, pragmatic ideas that bring hope and change to life.''
 Or, in the blunter words of Gov. Phil Bredesen, Democrat of Tennessee: ''Instead of giving big speeches at big stadiums, he needs to give straight-up 10-word answers to people at Wal-Mart about how he would improve their lives.''
 Obama advisers say he has made significant headway defining his positions on issues like tougher trade policies, the links between new energy sources and job creation and projecting American leadership abroad. At the same time, his trip last month to Iraq, Afghanistan and Europe helped reassure voters about his experience, they said, and his agreement to a roll-call vote on Mrs. Clinton's candidacy at the convention should bring her disappointed supporters into the fold.
 Moreover, the Obama campaign has started running negative advertisements against Mr. McCain in battleground states -- often without announcing them beforehand. The reason, Obama aides say, is to try to convince voters that Mr. McCain is barely different than President Bush through a day or two of uncontested advertisements -- until the Republicans learn about them and begin to counter the ads.
 Yet these advisers also acknowledge that the Obama phenomenon -- the candidacy that helped inspire record voter registrations and turnout during the primaries -- has come down to earth in a divided, economically stressed nation. Even though political analysts say that the economic conditions favor the Democrats in this election, and Mr. Bush's unpopularity could hurt Republicans, Mr. Obama has not broken away from Mr. McCain in polling -- a reflection, in part, of the huge numbers of undecided voters across party lines.
 ''Democrats should take a deep breath and realize that there are a group of voters who won't make up their mind about a candidate until deep in the fall,'' said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's campaign manager. ''And there are 18 states that are battlegrounds for a reason, and they'll be decided by 2 to 4 points. I don't care about national polls.''
 A New York Times/CBS News poll last month found the race between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain to be a statistical dead heat, not unlike where Senator John Kerry and Mr. Bush stood in a Times/CBS News poll in July 2004. The poll four years ago was conducted after Mr. Kerry, the Democratic nominee, picked Senator John Edwards as his running mate, yet before both the party conventions and the most intense period of political attacks on Mr. Kerry's war service record as skipper of a Swift boat in Vietnam.
 The McCain campaign has sought to turn Mr. Obama's celebrity against him by portraying the freshman senator as out of his depth in crises like Russia's invasion of Georgia. As Mr. Obama was in Hawaii last week, Mr. McCain presented himself as a man-at-the-ready, opining daily about Russia, as well as repeatedly invoking action verbs like ''drill'' in pledging to address high fuel prices.
 To a considerable extent, political analysts say, the closeness of the race at this stage reflects the fact that many voters are not paying attention to it, after the long, wearying primary season. Many Democrats pointed to the election of 1980 when voters, choosing between a relatively inexperienced former governor, Ronald Reagan, and an unpopular incumbent, Jimmy Carter, finally flocked to Mr. Reagan at the end after resolving whatever qualms they had about him.
 But some Republicans disputed that analogy, saying the difficulty Mr. Obama faces getting traction in public opinion polls reflects the country's reservations about this relative newcomer to national politics -- both because he has little experience in national security but also, inevitably, because of his race.
 ''I think Senator Obama is a motivational speaker, but at the end of the day I don't think that will translate into votes, and certainly not the image of strength that Ronald Reagan had,'' said Jim Greer, the chairman of the FloridaRepublican Party.
 ''Florida has not yet been locked down by either candidate, or all but won by either candidate, but I think Obama's inability to prove his experience or prove that he owns a political issue far more than McCain is a real problem for him,'' Mr. Greer said.
 In response, several Democrats said that choosing a seasoned party leader as his running mate would help Mr. Obama in the fall if he is unable to fully allay voters' uncertainty that a one-term senator is ready for the presidency.
 ''The one area he still needs credibility in is experience, and picking an Evan Bayh or a Joe Biden as vice president would help a lot with that,'' said John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana. ''It wouldn't be bad if he came out early and said who his secretary of defense and secretary of state would be -- that would address and stabilize the concerns about his experience.''
 Mr. Obama and his aides made several strategic decisions this summer that had clear payoffs, yet also carried some risks that could play out in the general election.
 He quit the public campaign finance system and built a formidable bank account for his campaign, while the Clintons and their supporters still smarted from her loss and grew frustrated that he did not do more to help pay down her campaign debt. He traveled overseas for a week, and was widely praised for his statesmanlike bearing, yet Republicans derided him as vainglorious for holding a huge rally in Berlin. And while Mr. Obama kept a low profile during his Hawaiian vacation, Mr. McCain sought to burnish his image on national security by responding to the Georgian crisis.
 Some Democrats said Mr. Obama must still demonstrate that he would be a more effective president than Mr. McCain, and that he could unite the Democratic Party before its convention. Jane Kidd, the party leader in Georgia -- where Mr. Obama is hoping black support will help him succeed where other northern Democratic nominees have failed -- said Mr. Obama had a good deal more work to do to win over Clinton supporters as well as white voters who are loath to support a black candidate.
 ''In rural parts of Georgia and the South, there is still some fear about people who look different from themselves,'' Ms. Kidd said. ''And there's also healing left to do among women who wanted to see the day that a woman was elected president,''
 Mr. Bredesen, of Tennessee, said that while the Democrats had little chance of carrying his state -- the Obama camp is sending Mr. Bredesen to campaign in other states -- Mr. Obama could still take steps to appeal to undecided Democrats there that might increase his chances elsewhere. 
 ''I would really like to see him do things in Tennessee that would help in other working-class and blue-collar places, like Ohio,'' Mr. Bredesen said. ''Job security and health care are huge here. He needs to come to the aisle of Home Depot and show them that a Harvard graduate -- which I am as well -- knows how to help them.''
 Gov. Bill Ritter of Colorado, the host of next week's Democratic National Convention, said Mr. Obama needed to hone and amplify his plan to create more jobs if he wants to woo undecided independent voters, who make up the largest bloc of the electorate in the swing state.
 ''His message is the right one, but he needs to turn up the volume and sharpen it a bit because these are voters who care a great, great deal about the future of the economy,'' Mr. Ritter said. ''He has to convince them he is ready for that huge task.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Opinion about Barack Obama's address to a huge gathering in Berlin last month has been divided, mainly along party lines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS MEYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); PHIL BREDESEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



442 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Drink Outside the Box

BYLINE: By TYLER COLMAN. 
Tyler Colman is the author of ''Wine Politics: How Governments, Environmentalists, Mobsters and Critics Influence the Wines We Drink,'' and he blogs at DrVino.com.

DATELINE: Waccabuc, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 ITALY'S Agriculture Ministry announced this month that some wines that receive the government's quality assurance label may now be sold in boxes. That's right, Italian wine is going green, and for some connoisseurs, the sky might as well be falling. 
 But the sky isn't falling. Wine in a box makes sense environmentally and economically. Indeed, vintners in the United States would be wise to embrace the trend that is slowly gaining acceptance worldwide. 
 Wine in a box has been around for more than 30 years -- though with varying quality. The Australians were among the first to popularize it. And hardly a fridge in the south of France, especially this time of year, is complete without a box of rose. Here in America, by contrast, boxed wine has had trouble escaping a down-market image. But now that wine producers are talking about reducing their carbon footprint -- that is, the amount of carbon dioxide emitted in the transportation of wine -- selling the beverage in alternative, lighter packaging instead of heavier glass seems like the right thing to do. 
 More than 90 percent of American wine production occurs on the West Coast, but because the majority of consumers live east of the Mississippi, a large part of carbon-dioxide emissions associated with wine comes from simply trucking it from the vineyard to tables on the East Coast. A standard wine bottle holds 750 milliliters of wine and generates about 5.2 pounds of carbon-dioxide emissions when it travels from a vineyard in California to a store in New York. A 3-liter box generates about half the emissions per 750 milliliters. Switching to wine in a box for the 97 percent of wines that are made to be consumed within a year would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about two million tons, or the equivalent of retiring 400,000 cars. 
 But here's another reason to sell wine in a box. America will soon become the largest wine market in the world. In recent years, we overtook Italy, and France is now in our sights. (This is total consumption, not per person; we are still well behind by the latter measure.) As Americans drink more wine, we will be drinking it not only on special occasions like dates and weddings, but also on Monday nights with pizza. That's a lot of wine -- and potentially a big carbon footprint.
 Although some sommeliers may scoff at wine from a plastic spigot, boxes are perfect for table wines that don't need to age, which is to say, all but a relative handful of the top wines from around the world. What's more, boxed wine is superior to glass bottle storage in resolving that age-old problem of not being able to finish a bottle in one sitting. Once open, a box preserves wine for about four weeks compared with only a day or two for a bottle. Boxed wine may be short on charm, but it is long on practicality.
 Which leads to a final reason for boxed wine: it's so much more economical. Having an affordable glass of wine may be the best way to keep our 15-year bull market for wine consumption running. It also would help keep per-glass prices of wine from rising as the dollar falls.
 The main obstacle to a smaller carbon footprint for wine is the frequently abysmal quality of wine put in boxes. But that's an easy fix: raise the quality. 
 In the past few years, the boxed wine sold in America has shown some signs of improvement. There's been wine in a stylish cardboard tube made by a top winemaker in Burgundy. There's a good, old-vine grenache from the Pyrenees sold in a box. A succulent unoaked malbec from organically grown grapes in Argentina is now available in the United States thanks to the 1-liter TetraPak, which is also being used by three renegade Californians who have a line of wines that are sold in 250-milliliter packages -- about the size of juice boxes, but without straws. And then, of course, there's the news from Italy. 
 Producers everywhere need to deliver better wine in a box -- and make it snappy. Perhaps they will if consumers start to demand that everyday wines that don't need to age in a bottle be sold in a box. If you're sorry about the change, squeeze off another well-preserved, affordable, low-carbon serving of boxed wine and mull it over.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRADY MCFERRIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WINERIES (90%); GREEN MARKET (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); WINE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



443 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Recalling Mission To Capture Era's Misery

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
''Migrant Mother,'' Dorothea Lange's image of a weathered, grimy Depression-era woman in California surrounded by her children, is one of the most famous photographs of the 20th century, as is ''Fleeing a Dust Storm,'' Arthur Rothstein's shot of a farmer and his two young sons in the Oklahoma Dust Bowl whipped by the wind, a shack in the background. 
 The politics and the photographers who shaped those images under the auspices of the federal Farm Security Administration come to life in ''Documenting the Face of America: Roy Stryker and the F.S.A./O.W.I. Photographers,'' an hourlong documentary on most PBS stations Monday night. The film shows how Mr. Stryker turned a small government agency's New Deal project to document poverty into a visual anthology of thousands of images of American life in the 1930s and early '40s that helped shape modern documentary photography; more than 160,000 are now at the Library of Congress. 
 Before television or the Internet, when many Americans lacked even a radio, the photographs told stories that would have remained elusive to those out of eyeball range. Ms. Lange and Mr. Rothstein, along with celebrated figures like Walker Evans and Gordon Parks, used their cameras to preserve scenes of winding bread lines, dirty-faced families in front of their ramshackle farmhouses or in jalopies with their possessions piled high, as well as the stark ''colored'' signs of segregated public facilities and somber black children picking cotton. 
 Mr. Stryker's group of photographers ''introduced Americans to America'' and an entire generation to ''the reality of its own time and place in history,'' Mr. Stryker says in an interview heard on the program, which is narrated by Julian Bond, chairman of the N.A.A.C.P.
 ''I wanted to introduce a new generation to some of these photographs and the amazing stories that went with them,'' said Jeanine Isabel Butler, who wrote and directed the film and produced it with her husband, Alastair Reilly, and her sister, Catherine Lynn Butler, in association with South Carolina ETV. Jeanine Isabel Butler is a writer and producer of documentary and educational films for PBS, the Discovery Channel and the National Geographic Channel among others. 
 Ms. Butler said that she was captivated by the idea of how a small-agency bureaucrat like Mr. Stryker, who kept a tight rein on his photographers and constantly wrangled more money for his work, managed to remain idealistic. Her team began working on the film in 2000, she said, and scored a coup along the way by interviewing Mr. Parks, one of the country's most celebrated photographers, who died in 2006 at 93. 
 ''I feel like some of the issues we were facing then continue to be issues we as a society face,'' Ms. Butler said. ''There are still racial and class differences that can inspire a whole new generation of filmmakers, artists and photographers to look and begin to capture. But it'll never be a big government project again.''
 F. Jack Hurley, professor emeritus of history at the University of Memphis and author of a book on Mr. Stryker, who died in 1975, said in an interview that ''Documenting the Face of America'' helped put a few dozen widely reproduced Depression-era photographs into a broader context. Mr. Hurley, who appears throughout the documentary, said it also showed that the photographs, now celebrated, were once denounced in some quarters as the Roosevelt administration's political propaganda, meant to win favor for some of his New Deal initiatives. 
 ''What we think of as social documentary, it starts here,'' Mr. Hurley said in an interview. ''Stryker started out showing rural poverty to well-off urban people but broadened the file to include the middle-class and even farmers faring well.'' Mr. Stryker gave questions to the photographers to serve as guidelines for their work, Mr. Hurley said: What do people in small-town Texas do on a Saturday afternoon? How do people in Mississippi use their porches?
 ''You wind up with a nicely balanced portrait of America in the '30s,'' he said. 
 Mr. Stryker, heard on screen in a 1975 audio interview with Mr. Hurley, says he quickly realized that farmers in every area of the country were suffering. ''The picture began to be the thing of my life,'' he says. ''The photograph was the way to reach the people. Somehow, some way, I wanted life in the pictures.'' 
 ''Documenting the Face of America'' includes excerpts from Mr. Stryker's letters and interview transcripts, and excerpts from the diaries and shooting scripts belonging to him and the photographers. It is chock-full of the most famous photographs of Ms. Lange and Mr. Rothstein, as well as Mr. Parks and Mr. Evans, Jack Delano, Russell Lee, Marion Post Wolcott, Ben Shahn and others. 
 Mr. Stryker, a World War I veteran and assistant professor of economics at Columbia University, went to work for the federal government in the summer of 1935, when the country was in the grip of the Great Depression. He directed the historical unit of the Resettlement Administration (later the Farm Security Administration). In the '40s his photography unit was assigned to the Office of War Information, or O.W.I. 
 The initial assignment of the historical unit was to use photographs to try to persuade Congress that thousands of dispossessed farm families were in desperate need of government assistance. 
 Mr. Stryker had grown up on small dirt farm outside Montrose, Colo., and his father was ''a prairie populist,'' Mr. Hurley says in the film.
 ''Roy's patriotism included the right to question the way things were done,'' Mr. Hurley says in an on-camera interview. ''And certainly by the 1930s he was very angry about the situation that poor farmers found themselves in and he really wanted to do something about it.''
 Mr. Parks -- whose work for Mr. Stryker produced ''American Gothic,'' the image of a black government cleaning woman standing in front of an American flag, a broom in one hand and a mop by her other side -- talks about his first meeting with his boss soon after he arrived. 
 Mr. Stryker gave Mr. Parks an unusual assignment: leave the Farm Security Administration office at 14th Street and Independence Avenue and get lunch across the street. Then go across the street to a theater. There, in the heart of the capital, Mr. Parks found the ''Whites Only'' signs that barred his admission. 
 Mr. Parks, in an on-screen interview, recalls reporting his experiences to Mr. Stryker on his return to the office. ''I said, 'I think you know how it went.' He says: 'Yeah, I know how it went. Well, what are you going to do about it?' I said: 'I don't know. What do I do about it?' He said, 'Well, what did you bring that camera down here for?' ''
 Although Mr. Stryker kept his photographers together through various political challenges, World War II changed everything, the film shows. His unit was moved to the Office of War Information, and he lost control of it. His photographers were asked to produce propaganda, like photographs that showed the supposedly fair treatment of the Japanese-Americans interned in wartime camps. But before resigning in 1943 Mr. Stryker appealed directly to the White House to keep the thousands of photographs together at the Library of Congress, where most remain. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Arthur Rothstein's ''Fleeing a Dust Storm'' is featured in ''Documenting the Face of America,'' Monday on most PBS stations.
 Dorothea Lange's ''Migrant Mother'' introduced one segment of America to another. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS DIVISION) (pg.E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (88%); FAMILY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); WRITERS (72%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (72%); LIBRARIES (67%)

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (82%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Documenting the Face of America (TV Program)>; Documenting the Face of America (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



444 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 264 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Reports will include housing starts and the Producer Price Index for July (Tuesday); and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's manufacturing index and the Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators for July (Thursday). 
 COMPANY REPORTS As earnings season starts to wrap up, many consumer-focused companies are due to report their results this week.
 Reports will come from Lowe's (Monday); Hewlett-Packard, Home Depot, Medtronic, Saks and Target (Tuesday); BJ's Wholesale Club, JDS Uniphase and Limited Brands (Wednesday); Barnes & Noble, Burger King, Gap, H. J. Heinz and Hormel (Thursday); and AnnTaylor Stores (Friday).
 ECONOMIC FORUM The second annual Americas Competitiveness Forum will continue in Atlanta (Monday and Tuesday). Speakers will include the Colombian president, Alvaro Uribe, below; Eduardo Castro Wright, the president of Wal-Mart Stores USA; Jim Balsillie, co-chief executive of Research in Motion; and Dennis P. Lockhart, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
 ENERGY SUMMIT The National Clean Energy Summit, hosted by Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader, will take place in Las Vegas (Monday).
 ANNUAL FED MEETINGFederal Reserve officials will meet at their annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo. (Thursday through Saturday). The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will speak Friday morning on financial stability.
 VOTE ON EXCHANGE MERGER Members of the New York Mercantile Exchange and shareholders of the CME Group will vote on the proposed merger of the futures exchanges (Monday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MERGERS (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (83%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); ANN INC (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); CME GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); JDU (TSX) (57%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%); ANN (NYSE) (57%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%); CME (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); JAMES BALSILLIE (52%); ALVARO URIBE (52%); HARRY REID (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (68%) WYOMING, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



445 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: The Corporate Free Ride

 BODY:
Here is a crazy idea to address the United States' gaping fiscal deficit: persuade corporate America to start paying taxes. 
 An investigation by the Government Accountability Office found that almost two-thirds of companies in the United States usually pay no corporate income taxes. Big companies, those with more than $50 million in sales or $250 million in assets, are less likely to avoid Uncle Sam altogether. Still, about a quarter of them report no tax liability either. 
 The G.A.O., which looked at tax returns from 1998 through 2005, does not tell us exactly how so many corporations managed to avoid the taxman. It simply notes that they were able to record sufficient expenses -- salaries, interest and ''other deductions'' -- to cancel out their taxable income. 
 We find it hard to believe that some two-thirds of American companies fail to turn a profit. What we find easier to believe is that corporations have become increasingly skilled at tax-avoidance strategies, including transfer pricing -- overcharging their American units for products and services provided by subsidiaries abroad to artificially reduce their profits here. 
 The first place to look for money to close the budget deficit should be among the high-income individuals who have been treated so generously by the Bush administration. But corporate America has been getting a free pass for far too long. And the seeming ease with which corporations escape the taxman altogether compounds a fundamental unfairness in the American economy. 
 Even as corporate profits have soared -- reaching a record of 14.1 percent of the nation's total income in 2006 -- the percentage of these profits paid out in taxes is near its lowest level since the 1930s.
 It is a uniquely American paradox. This country's corporate tax rates are among the highest in the industrial world, yet the taxes that corporations pay are among the lowest. With an enormous budget deficit and pressing demands for better health care and other social programs, America can no longer afford free riders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



446 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: In Rural New York, Windmills Can Bring Whiff of Corruption

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: BURKE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Everywhere that Janet and Ken Tacy looked, the wind companies had been there first.
 Dozens of people in their small town had already signed lease options that would allow wind towers on their properties. Two Burke Town Board members had signed private leases even as they negotiated with the companies to establish a zoning law to permit the towers. A third board member, the Tacys said, bragged about the commissions he would earn by selling concrete to build tower bases. And, the Tacys said, when they showed up at a Town Board meeting to complain, they were told to get lost.
 ''There were a couple of times when they told us to just shut up,'' recalled Mr. Tacy, sitting in his kitchen on a recent evening. 
 Lured by state subsidies and buoyed by high oil prices, the wind industry has arrived in force in upstate New York, promising to bring jobs, tax revenue and cutting-edge energy to the long-struggling region. But in town after town, some residents say, the companies have delivered something else: an epidemic of corruption and intimidation, as they rush to acquire enough land to make the wind farms a reality. 
 ''It really is renewable energy gone wrong,'' said the Franklin County district attorney, Derek P. Champagne, who began a criminal inquiry into the Burke Town Board last spring and was quickly inundated with complaints from all over the state about the wind companies. Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo agreed this year to take over the investigation.
 ''It's a modern-day gold rush,'' Mr. Champagne said.
 Mr. Cuomo is investigating whether wind companies improperly influenced local officials to get permission to build wind towers, as well as whether different companies colluded to divide up territory and avoid bidding against one another for the same land.
 The industry appears to be shying away from trying to erect the wind farms in more affluent areas downstate, even where the wind is plentiful, like Long Island.
 But in the small towns near the Canadian border, families and friendships have been riven by feuds over the lease options, which can be worth tens of thousands of dollars a year in towns where the median household income may hover around $30,000. Rumors circulate about neighbors who can suddenly afford new tractors or trucks. Opponents of the wind towers even say they have received threats; one local activist said that on two occasions, she had found her windshield bashed in.
 ''My sisters and brothers won't even talk to me anymore,'' said Mr. Tacy, who with his wife has become active in recent years in a network of people who oppose the wind companies. ''They tear communities apart.'' Opponents of the farms say their scenic views are being marred by the hundreds of wind towers already in place, some of which stand nearly 400 feet tall. They also complain of the irritating hum of spinning turbines and what they say are wasteful public subsidies to wind companies.
 But corruption is a major concern. In at least 12 counties, Mr. Champagne said, evidence has surfaced about possible conflicts of interest or improper influence.
 In Prattsburgh, N.Y., a Finger Lakes community, the town supervisor cast the deciding vote allowing private land to be condemned to make way for a wind farm there, even after acknowledging that he had accepted real estate commissions on at least one land deal involving the farm's developer. 
 A town official in Bellmont, near Burke, took a job with a wind company after helping shepherd through a zoning law to permit and regulate the towers, according to local residents. And in Brandon, N.Y., nearby, the town supervisor told Mr. Champagne that after a meeting during which he proposed a moratorium on wind towers, he had been invited to pick up a gift from the back seat of a wind company representative's car. 
 When the supervisor, Michael R. Lawrence, looked inside, according to his complaint to Mr. Champagne, he saw two company polo shirts and a leather pouch that he suspected contained cash. 
 When Mr. Lawrence asked whether the pouch was part of the gift, the representative replied, ''That's up to you,'' according to the complaint.
 Last month, Mr. Cuomo subpoenaed two wind companies, Noble Environmental Power, based in Connecticut, and First Wind, based in Massachusetts, seeking a broad range of documents. Both companies say they are cooperating with the attorney general. 
 ''We have no comment on specifics, but we want to be clear: Noble supports open and transparent development of wind projects in accordance with the highest ethical standards,'' said Walt Howard, Noble's chief executive.
 The industry's interest in New York's North Country is driven by several factors. The area is mostly rural, with thousands of acres of farmland near existing energy transmission lines. Moreover, under a program begun in 2004, the state is entering into contracts to buy renewable energy credits, effectively subsidizing wind power until it can compete against power produced more cheaply from coal or natural gas.
 Nine large-scale wind farms housing 451 towers, each with a turbine, are in operation in New York, with at least 840 more towers slated for construction, according to state officials. And in June, Iberdrola S.A., which is based in Spain and is one of the world's largest energy producers, announced its proposal to invest $2 billion to build hundreds more towers here. 
 Every day in the North Country during the warm months, trucks pulling giant flatbed trailers rumble down the highways, carrying tower sections and turbine blades. Some residents see the trucks not as a disturbance, but as an omen of jobs, money and cleaner air. 
 ''I feel as a mother, as a grandmother, that the country needs it -- not just here,'' said Susan Gerow, a Burke resident who has signed easements with Noble worth about $3,000 a year. Like others who have signed deals with the companies, Ms. Gerow and her family will also earn a portion of the revenue from the windmills if they are ever built. 
 The North Country is a chronically distressed region, and farming is increasingly a profitless enterprise here. The General Motors plant in Massena, for years a reliable source of good jobs, is closing in mid-2009. One of the few bright spots in the local economy in recent decades has been the construction of state prisons, of which there are now five in Franklin County alone. 
 ''You're talking about a poor farming community out here,'' said Brent A. Trombly, a former town supervisor of Ellenburg, which approved a law to allow and establish regulations for the wind towers in 2003. ''Our only natural resources are stone and wind.''
 For some farmers, he said, the wind leases were their last chance to hold onto land that had been in the family for generations. Supporters also say that the wind towers bring in badly needed tax revenue.
 ''We see this industry coming, we see the payments coming in,'' said William K. Wood, a former Burke Town Board member who also signed a lease option. The school board of Chateaugay, he pointed out, received $332,800 this year from Noble for payments in lieu of taxes, money that the district used to lower school taxes, upgrade its computers and provide a prekindergarten class for the first time.
 The local debates over wind power are driven in a part by a vacuum at the state level. There is no state law governing where wind turbines can be built or how big they can be. That leaves it up to town officials, working part time and on advice from outside lawyers, some of whom may have conflicts of their own. 
 Two Franklin County towns, Brandon and Malone, have passed laws banning the wind turbines. But the issue remains unresolved in Burke, population 1,451, where two Town Board members recused themselves from the issue this year because they had leases with wind companies, leaving the board deadlocked.
 At a meeting last month at Burke's Town Hall, opponents and supporters sat on opposite sides of the aisle, arms crossed. The mood, as it has often been at such meetings, was quietly bitter.
 ''I'd like to hear what people think,'' said Darrel Bushey, the town supervisor and a wind-tower opponent.
 ''We've listened to the people for two years,'' responded Timothy Crippen, who sits on the town's zoning board, which favors permitting the turbines. ''It's time to make a move.''
 Some hands shot into the air from the audience, but were ignored. 
 ''There is no decision you are going to make that is going to make everyone happy,'' said Craig Dumas, another zoning board member, almost pleading for action.
 But the meeting soon broke up, still with no decision made.
 ''This is a problem for these communities,'' Mr. Dumas said as the room emptied. ''There's a lot of emotion on both sides.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wind turbines in New York near the Canadian border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Kathy Laclair of Churubusco, N.Y., dislikes the noise from the wind turbine blades and says their shadows give her vertigo.
 To some upstate towns, wind power promises prosperity. Others fear noise, spoiled views and the corrupting of local officials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) MAP: Many in upstate New York have signed wind leases. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); ZONING (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



447 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Beware the Wrath of an Opera Lover Scorned

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Don Giovanni in Hell? Opera Fans Endure 5-Hour Ticket Exchange Line'' (news article, Aug. 12):
 Peter Gelb, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, would be ill advised to ignore, dismiss and anger longstanding subscribers and fans of the Metropolitan Opera. 
 Nor should he take them for granted, stating that they should take the good with the bad and suggesting they not exchange tickets in their series but instead give unwanted tickets away or donate them back to the box office. 
 As any astute arts manager knows, a solid subscriber base is key to the financial stability of a performing arts group.
 Throughout the long history of the Met, there have been periods of economic downturn when dependence on subscribers was key. With clouds of recession looming for New York and across the country, Mr. Gelb should take heed: he may well need the support of the Met's longstanding subscribers and fans.
 Richard J. Bonforte New York, Aug. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The Metropolitan Opera's general manager, Peter Gelb, says he wants to return to the days when subscribers took the good with the bad.
 But they didn't. 
 My summer job during college was in the Met's subscription department. In those days, in the early 1970s, the system was not yet computerized. 
 Subscribers could send in seat change requests in the spring, which were reviewed in the summer. In addition to happy upgrades (to seats lower down) when subscribers had financial success and sorrowful downgrades (to seats higher up) when circumstances were reduced, they asked for seats closer, toward the center, on the aisle, near friends or away from tall or annoying audience members or architectural peculiarities. 
 Subscribers gave reasons that seemed honest, or brazen, or ridiculous, some with documentation, about disabilities or train schedules and sometimes just outright, extravagant lies.
 After graduate school, I worked in the community relations department of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. I found it much easier dealing with irate subway riders than demanding opera subscribers wanting to change their subscriptions.
 Nora Lee Mandel Forest Hills, Queens, Aug. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Many hundreds of Metropolitan Opera fans like me and my husband (20-year subscribers) were waiting hours in line in the garage basement, now under construction, amid the dust and noise.
 We found the comments by Peter Gelb, the Met's general manager, about his new policies (exchange fees, long lines and the promise of even tighter exchange policies) and ''what we are doing in the long term is to their advantage'' to be shortsighted and an insult to Met subscribers. 
 Mr. Gelb suggests we should be donating the tickets back to the Met rather than trying to exchange them, despite the fact that most of our subscriptions include operas that have been repeatedly in our series over the years.
 I suggest that those of us who have cited bequests to the Metropolitan Opera in our wills contact our lawyers and leave bequests instead to other organizations that do not have an attitude.
 Carol H. Schwartz East Meadow, N.Y., Aug. 12, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY POLLY BECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); SEASONAL WORKERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



448 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Murder Most Rational and Confounding

BYLINE: By JOHN STEELE GORDON. 
John Steele Gordon is the author of ''An Empire of Wealth: The Epic History of American Economic Power'' (HarperCollins, 2004).

 BODY:
FOR THE THRILL OF IT 
 Leopold, Loeb and the Murder That Shocked Chicago 
 By Simon Baatz 
 Illustrated. 541 pages. Harper. $27.95. 
 Murder is the most serious crime one human being can commit against another. Perhaps that is why it has such an enduring fascination and why a whole literary genre -- the whodunit -- has been inspired by it. But as entertaining as Arthur Conan Doyle, Agatha Christie and Dorothy L. Sayers can be, real murder stories often trump the best fictional ones and live on in the folk memory just as long. The Jack the Ripper and Lizzie Borden cases obsessed the news media of the day and well over a century later they still generate books, movies, television docudramas, even the occasional ballet and opera.
 The brutal murder in Chicago in 1924 of a 14-year-old boy named Bobby Franks also fascinated people of the time and remains one of the most familiar and intriguing murder cases in American history. That is, on the surface, a bit puzzling. 
 Jack the Ripper was never caught, and Lizzie Borden was acquitted when tried for the ax-murder of her parents. Like fictional murders they make us wonder whodunit but, unlike with fictional murders, we will almost certainly never find out for sure.
 But we know without a shadow of a doubt who murdered Bobby Franks. It was Nathan Leopold and his friend Richard Loeb. What makes the Leopold and Loeb case so enduringly fascinating is not the who but the why.
 It is quite likely that Jack the Ripper -- whoever he was -- was utterly deranged. And if Lizzie Borden murdered her parents, well, the passions generated within unhappy families are the cause of a fair percentage of murders.
 But Leopold and Loeb were not deranged. They had no trouble telling right from wrong; they were unusually intelligent. They had entered the University of Chicago at the ages of 14 (Loeb) and 15 (Leopold). At the time of the murder both were, while only 18 and 19, already in graduate school. And, although Bobby Franks was a second cousin of Richard Loeb, family had nothing to do with it. Bobby had just been in the wrong place at the wrong time, a victim chosen nearly at random as he walked down the street toward home after school. Nor was money the motive. Leopold and Loeb came from two of the richest families in Chicago and received generous allowances from their fathers.
 These two, in other words, had the world on a string in 1924: rich, smart, good looking, well connected and with the brightest of futures ahead of them. So why did they murder a 14-year-old schoolboy, stuff his naked body in a drainage pipe and send his parents a ransom note demanding $10,000?
 The answer is in the title of Simon Baatz's altogether absorbing history of the case, ''For the Thrill of It.'' It was that, and they wanted to prove to themselves they were smart enough quite literally to get away with murder.
 Mr. Baatz, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan, has done meticulous research, and he writes extremely well. As a result he brings to vivid life the major characters. Not just the two murderers, but also the judges and lawyers. (The Leopold and Loeb families, hoping to save their sons at least from the gallows, hired no less a lawyer than Clarence Darrow to defend them.) He also gives us a picture of the crime-ridden, bootleg-liquor-fueled Jazz Age city of Chicago and its spectacularly corrupt political culture.
 Leopold and Loeb were brought up in very rich families, but they were not brought up well. Both had distant fathers, uninvolved mothers and nannies who were altogether too involved (in Leopold's case sexually). The result was two damaged individuals, despite their intellectual gifts. Leopold was rather short, humorless, lacking in social skills and afflicted with low self-esteem, which he tried to overcome with intellectual braggadocio. Not surprisingly, he had few friends. Loeb was nearly the opposite: tall, charming, good looking, popular, narcissistic. He was also addicted to crime novels.
 Had these two never met, they might have made it through life without getting into serious trouble. They might even have grown up at some point and accomplished something worthwhile. But they did meet and became close, but not equal, friends. 
 Loeb dominated Leopold, threatening to end their friendship at any sign of resistance to his plans and doling out sex as a reward for acquiescence. Leopold, pathetically grateful to have so dazzling a friend after years of loneliness, was hopelessly infatuated. Individually they were a couple of maladjusted, overprivileged college kids. Together they formed a sort of yin and yang of evil, capable of planning and executing a murder simply for their own amusement.
 Had they not made a mistake so stupid as to beggar imagination, they might well have gotten away with it. But they did make such a mistake, leaving a pair of easily traced prescription glasses almost next to the body. And so, within two weeks, they were behind bars. 
 Clarence Darrow's brilliant legal strategy -- the depiction of which is one of the more compelling sections of this page-turner of a book -- saved them from the hanging that most thought they richly deserved. But Richard Loeb never got out of jail. Twelve years after his conviction, as manipulative and narcissistic as ever, he was murdered in Stateville Prison in Illinois after he propositioned the wrong fellow inmate for sex.
 Nathan Leopold, a model prisoner, was paroled in 1958, after 34 years. His remorse for the grotesque act that had ended one life and ruined his own seemed genuine.
 As fine as this book is, it doesn't quite settle the case. Just as the question of who can never be finally settled regarding Jack the Ripper and Lizzie Borden, the question of why still remains here. Leopold was infatuated, and love, especially in a neurotic form, can make fools of us all. But what explains Richard Loeb?
 Perhaps only a Shakespeare could peer deep enough into the darkest corners of the human soul to tell us fully why he risked so much for so little, caused so much pain for so transient a thrill.
 But if Simon Baatz is not Shakespeare -- and who is? -- his book on the Leopold and Loeb case is the best we'll have for a long, long time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE PHOTOGRAPH GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); LITERATURE (72%); HISTORY (69%); BALLET (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: For the Thrill of It (Book)>; For the Thrill of It (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



449 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Export Boom Helps Farms, Not Factories

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Exports are the bright spot this year in an otherwise bleak economy. But the world is not suddenly snapping up made-in-America goods like aircraft, machinery and staplers. The great attraction is decidedly low-luster commodities like corn, wheat, ore and scrap metal. 
 This helps explain why manufacturing jobs are continuing to disappear by the tens of thousands and factories are closing even during a miniboom in exports. While the surge in commodities is a welcome relief, it is an unreliable prop for an industrial power.
 ''The historical data tell us clearly: don't get too used to commodity export booms; as any third world country will tell you, they tend to go away pretty quickly,'' said L. Josh Bivens, a trade expert at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. 
 His point was that while Boeing's aircraft or Caterpillar's tractors are distinctive and sought after, corn grown in Iowa is virtually interchangeable with corn grown in Argentina or any other bread-basket country. ''Over a long period,'' Mr. Bivens said, ''commodities contribute right around zero to export growth.'' 
 Commodity sales have been helped greatly this year by rising prices, particularly for grains, and also by the decline in the value of the dollar, which reduces the cost of American exports in other currencies. Both trends, however, have recently reversed, suggesting that the rise in commodity sales will not be sustained, and that exports might shrink, weakening the economy another notch. 
 ''What amazes me,'' said Robert L. Thompson, an agriculture specialist at the University of Illinois, ''is that we have been able to greatly increase corn exports while also using it for ethanol. Only by increasing the acreage devoted to corn have we been able to do this, and by squeezing down the use of corn for domestic livestock feed.'' 
 An analysis of trade data by the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis illustrates just how lopsided the gains have been between manufactured goods and unprocessed commodities. 
 All exports of goods and services in the first half of the year rose at a $52 billion annual rate, adjusted for inflation, up 7.1 percent. Commodities accounted for 41 percent of the increase and manufactured products contributed just 12 percent, the bureau reported. (The figures strip out such items as arms sales and exports to American territories, like Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.) 
 Such unevenness, favoring commodities, is unusual, given that manufactured products, even by this definition, account for 40 percent of the nation's exports, while commodities make up only 26 percent and services 30 percent. Indeed, not since the bureau began compiling detailed trade data in 1977 have commodities outpaced manufactured exports for two consecutive quarters.
 Weakening demand abroad accounts for some of the decline. But the manufacturers themselves acknowledge that they gradually undercut their ability to export as they moved more and more production to factories overseas. Bringing that production back to this country, so that it could be exported, would dismantle global networks constructed relentlessly over the last 25 years.
 ''We have achieved a worldwide manufacturing base, and we are not going to shut down our factories overseas,'' said Franklin J. Vargo, vice president for international economics at the National Association of Manufacturers. ''But on the margin, we will shift a little bit of manufacturing back to the United States.'' 
 That has happened recently, in response mainly to soaring transportation costs and the weaker dollar. DESA LLC, for example, known for its heating devices, recently moved some production back to Bowling Green, Ky., from China. 
 The contrast with commodities, which cannot be shifted overseas, is striking. John Hardin Jr. and his son, David, focus their attention on growing as much grain as they can on 2,500 acres near Indianapolis, counting on exports to absorb their harvest. Meanwhile, Sarah Bovim, a Whirlpool Corporation executive, points to expanding global operations at her company, where production abroad has eclipsed its exports. 
 ''We are looking to expand in emerging markets,'' Ms. Bovim said, ''which means we are looking to set up shop there.''
 The Hardins have every acre of their mostly rented land planted with corn, soybeans and wheat -- devoting more acreage to corn in anticipation of huge demand. The nation's corn exports, measured in tons, have risen nearly 20 percent this year, outstripping the gains of nearly every other commodity. And farmers are on schedule to harvest the second-largest corn crop in the nation's history, the Agriculture Department reported this week.
 ''We were in a situation where there wasn't enough corn in the world to go around,'' John Hardin said, noting that damaged harvests in other countries had pushed up the price. The weak dollar also made American corn more attractive. 
 But even with both of those props disappearing, the Hardins are betting heavily on corn again next year because of its use in ethanol and because of rising demand for livestock feed in India and China, where a rapidly growing middle class increasingly wants meat in its daily diet. 
 ''It is my fondest hope that exports will stay strong,'' Mr. Hardin said, ''although I don't think it is realistic to expect a percentage increase equal to what we are seeing this year.''
 Whirlpool is proud of its exports but intent on manufacturing more abroad. Ms. Bovim, who is Whirlpool's director of Congressional relations and trade policy, speaks with equal enthusiasm about sales from the company's factories abroad and those in the United States. Both are up, she says, and she cites sales of washing machines and dryers to make her point. 
 Machines that load clothes from a door on top are made only in the United States, principally at a plant in Clyde, Ohio, and are exported to satisfy overseas demand. A newer and increasingly popular model, one that is loaded from a door in the front, is made only at factories in Germany and Mexico. 
 Whirlpool recently opened its Mexican plant, deciding to bypass the United States. It was a decision that shifted income, investment, employment and exports to Mexico that might otherwise have shown up in the Bureau of Economic Analysis's accounts as economic growth in the United States.
 ''We have a supply chain that facilitates entry into new markets,'' Ms. Bovim said. ''Locating abroad puts us on an equal footing with domestic suppliers'' in those countries.
 Many American manufacturers argue that as factories spread across the globe, exporting is no longer an effective means of competing against sophisticated and ever more numerous local manufacturers. In addition, as American companies set up operations in, say, China, they insist that their suppliers locate nearby, for quick and efficient delivery -- and that draws more manufacturers overseas. 
 It is certainly a reason that Parker-Hannifin, a Cleveland-based manufacturer of hydraulic pumps and industrial controls, is expanding overseas, said Tim Pistell, the chief financial officer. ''Our customers just love for us to make our stuff near their new operations,'' Mr. Pistell said, ''and if we do, they reward us with a lot of business.''
 Parker-Hannifin's overseas sales have risen to 55 percent of its annual revenue, up from 33 percent in 2002, Mr. Pistell says. Exports, on the other hand, contribute no more than $400 million of its $12 billion in annual revenue, about half the percentage of a decade ago. 
 Currency fluctuations rarely alter these long-term commitments, and profits stay abroad. ''Most of the money we make overseas, we keep there,'' Mr. Pistell said, ''and then plow it back into growing the business overseas.''
 The Bureau of Economic Analysis, tracking this trend for all of America's multinational companies, says 70 percent of the multinationals' operations -- measured in employment, investment and value added in turning metal into aircraft or wood into furniture or silicon into computer chips -- take place in the United States.
 That, however, is down from nearly 75 percent in 1999 and, as the shift overseas continues at many manufacturers, commodities inevitably jump to prominence from time to time.
 ''We have a tremendous capacity to grow corn and other crops in this country,'' said Daryll E. Ray, an agricultural economist at the University of Tennessee, ''and we are intent on doing so.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 18 about the boom in American exports described those exports imprecisely. Commodities exports can include items like flour and beverages and industrial supplies like chemicals, metals and paperboard; they are not limited to raw materials like grains and ores.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Hardin Jr. on his farm near Indianapolis. He is planting more corn in anticipation that global demand will grow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AJ MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (79%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); TRENDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); STATISTICS (75%); ALCOHOLS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%) INDIANA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



450 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2274 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 MUSHARRAF REMAINS DEFIANT
 Amid Talks of Impeachment
 As discussions about his possible impeachment continued, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan dug in his heels, saying through aides that he wanted to see the formal charges before making a decision to leave office. His representatives and the coalition government have been negotiating an exit strategy for him that would satisfy both sides, but the talks were bogged down over the legal technicalities of granting immunity to Mr. Musharraf. PAGE A6
 RETHINKING CHAOS-PLAGUED SOMALIA
 The violence and anarchy in Somali life that has continued unabated through 17 years, 14 transitional governments and more than $8 billion in foreign aid. A growing number of Western academics and Somali professionals argue say that the bulk of outside efforts have focused on creating a strong central government, which may be anathema in a country where authority tends to be diffuse and clan-based. PAGE A6 
 14 KILLED IN MOSQUE BLAST IN IRAQ
 A bomb blast ripped through the plaza in front of Baghdad's famous Abu Hanifa mosque in the Adhamiya district, killing 15 people and wounding 29 others. Among the dead was Faruq Abdul Sattar, a popular local figure and deputy commander of the Sunni Awakening council, the American-backed local force that guards the neighborhood, which is a Sunni stronghold. PAGE A10
 FLOODS BATTER VIETNAM
 Severe flooding in Vietnam and its neighbors over the past week has inundated cities and farmland. In northern Vietnam, at least 130 people have been killed, dozens are missing, and thousands have been driven from their homes. Flooding has also hit Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar. PAGE A5
 IN BEIJING, A BREATH OF FRESH AIR
 Beijing's air pollution was a major concern before the Olympics. About halfway through the Games, the city's air quality has shown a marked improvement. It is a respite for Beijing residents, albeit a short-lived one: the traffic and industrial restrictions put in place to cut down on pollution are scheduled to be lifted in late September. PAGE A7
 NO AGREEMENT FOR ZIMBABWE
 As the annual conference of the Southern African Development Community came to end, President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa said a power-sharing deal between President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was within reach. The regional leaders issued a statement urging the parties to ''conclude negotiations as a matter of urgency to restore political stability in Zimbabwe.'' PAGE A6
 NATIONAL
 'THE LAST BEST PLACE'
 May Be Trademark Free
 The title of an anthology of Montana writers, ''The Last Best Place,'' came to be used and cherished by Montanans to describe their sprawling, scenic state. And they were not happy when a businessman from Las Vegas with a Montana guest ranch sought exclusive right to the phrase for a wide range of businesses and products. Stopping him is taking an act of Congress. PAGE A15
 BIDEN'S PROS OVERLAP HIS CONS
 Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware is said to be among those who have gotten a close look as a potential running mate for Senator Barack Obama. One issue might be how to weigh his strengths and weaknesses, which can overlap. His broad knowledge, his chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee and his long tenure in the Senate also feed his biggest flaw: a verbosity and love of his own voice that drive many -- including, some say, Mr. Obama -- nuts. PAGE A12
 THE MESSAGE IS THE MEDIUM
 The Obama campaign's promises to reveal the choice of his running mate or send a campaign sticker to anyone who sends a specific text message to a dedicated phone number are more than political gimmickry: they are part of an effort to harvest names and cellphone numbers that will be put to use to mobilize voters later. PAGE A12
 OBAMA AND PICKENS TALK ENERGY
 Senator Barack Obama met briefly with T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire Texas oilman, to talk about energy and the economy. Afterward, he defended himself when a reporter asked why he met with Mr. Pickens, who spent $3 million supporting the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth campaign against Senator John Kerry in 2004. In a statement, Mr. Pickens said he assured Mr. Obama that his energy plan was a nonpartisan effort. PAGE A13
 NO 'CONE OF SILENCE'?
 Senator John McCain was not in a ''cone of silence'' on Saturday night while his rival, Senator Barack Obama, was being interviewed by the Rev. Rick Warren at a church in California. Mr. McCain, who followed Mr. Obama's hourlong appearance in the forum, was asked virtually the same questions as Mr. Obama. Mr. McCain's performance was well received, raising speculation among some viewers, especially supporters of Mr. Obama, that he was not as isolated during the Obama interview as Mr. Warren implied. PAGE A12
 OBITUARIES
 ROBERT N. BECK, 80
 He did incisive early work on using radioactive materials for medical imaging, advancing the use of technetium-99, an isotope now widely used to pinpoint cancers of the brain and other organs. PAGE A17
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 A POWER CHURCH BECOMES
 A Powerful Developer
 For the past decade or so, an offshoot of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, the Abyssinian Development Corporation, has played a behind-the-scenes role in the transformation of the neighborhood. As the development arm has grown, it has become a target of critics, but Abyssinian's pastor says the organization has stayed true to its aim of providing affordable housing and offering an array of social services. PAGE B1
 RAISING A HIGH PROFILE
 His name -- Cyrus R. Vance Jr. -- carries a certain cachet, partly as a hand-me-down from a father who was President Jimmy Carter's secretary of state and, before that, worked in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. The son has his own deft way with people, which he is employing as a potential candidate for Manhattan district attorney -- if, he says, the incumbent does not run again. But there is also cachet of that incumbent, Robert M. Morgenthau, who, at 89, says he does plan to seek re-election. PAGE B1 
 Metropolitan Diary B2
 SPORTS
 TO DO LIST FOR 2008:
 Become World Famous
 Candace Parker has had a pretty good year on and off the basketball court: leading the University of Tennessee to its second consecutive national title, being the first choice in the W.N.B.A. draft, and becoming engaged to her longtime boyfriend. Now she hopes to help the United States win its fourth consecutive gold medal in women's basketball, and then, like the American soccer star Mia Hamm, to create a global identity. PAGE D6
 A PLAN DERAILED
 Bernard Lagat, running for Kenya, won bronze in the 1,500 meters in 2000, then silver in 2004, losing by twelve-hundredths of a second. The script this year, running for the United States, was to win gold. After his semifinal heat in Beijing, though exhausted, he was sure his quest would continue. After all, he was the reigning world champion. Then the rankings for the finals came in. PAGE D5
 JAMAICAN SPEED
 In sweeping the medals in the 100 meters, the Jamaican women's sprinters made history and presented the first finish in the race without an American medalist in a nonboycotted Olympics since 1976. With her first-place finish, Shelly-Ann Fraser, above, joined her countryman Usain Bolt, who won the men's 100 a night earlier and shattered his own world record. PAGE D5
 BUSINESS
 A RIVALRY EMERGES 
 Over Tech Conferences
 At money-making gatherings known as technology conferences, investors, entrepreneurs and industry executives come together to strike deals, catch up on trends and network. It is all generally civil. But a noisy new entrant -- basically, Michael Arrington, the elbow-throwing,supercilious founder of the popular Silicon Valley blog TechCrunch -- has incited a bitter public dispute with a more established competitor over the most ethical way to run such a conference. PAGE C1
 TV NEWS COURTS YOUNG VOTERS
 Television networks, seeing polls that indicate a surge in primary-season ballots cast by voters under 30, are assigning reporters to cover them. Now if they can just get those younger voters to tune in: a biannual news consumption study released on Monday by the Pew Research Center found that only one-third of news consumers younger than 25 watch TV news on an average day. PAGE C1
 ADVERTISING FOR EVERYONE
 Saysme.tv hopes to sell ordinary people an avenue to broadcast their political views (or personal ads or classifieds or whatever) on television for perhaps as little as $6 for a 25-second spot. Or, as the Web site says, it wants ''to further empower citizens by letting them make their voices heard on TV as well as the Internet.'' At, maybe, 3 a.m., but hey. PAGE C1
 MORE SPORTS. BUT DIFFERENT.
 David Katz -- formerly head of sports, entertainment and studios for Yahoo -- is starting a Web site this week, sportsfanlive.com, and he is not lacking in confidence about competing with Internet sports powerhouses like the ones run by ESPN, Yahoo and others. He says they are all ''imbued with traditional media DNA.'' Like that is a bad thing. PAGE C4
 A DVD WITH A BOOK INSIDE
 The ''Gossip Girl'' DVD includes an audio version of the book on which the series is based (meaning fans still have no need to actually read); a ''Family Guy,'' Burger King and Google connection; and Fox News Channel goes looking for friends on Facebook. Media Talk. PAGE C4
 ADMEN BEFORE 'MAD MEN'
 The AMC series ''Mad Men'' has the advertising business in vogue as the backdrop for an entertainment offering, but not for the first time. Who could forget ''Bewitched,'' which had a New York adman named Darrin Stephens married to a nose-twitching (and gorgeous) Samantha? Or a pre-Mayberry (and megalomaniacal) Andy Griffith in ''A Face in the Crowd''? PAGE C5
 BusinessWeek Goes Topical C2
 Worth the Schlock C1 
 ARTS
 DORORTHY WEST'S HOUSE PROUD
 In Historic Enclave
 Neighbors, friends and relatives of Dorothy West, as well as a passel of scholars, local officials and fellow authors, gathered in Oak Bluffs on Martha's Vineyard to dedicate the writer's house as a site on the island's African American Heritage Trail. They unveiled a boulder in the front lawn of her cottage to commemorate the youngest member of the Harlem Renaissance. PAGE B1 
 CAPTURING AN ERA'S MISERY
 ''Migrant Mother,'' Dorothea Lange's image of a Depression-era woman and her children, is one of the most famous photographs of the 20th century, as is ''Fleeing a Dust Storm,'' Arthur Rothstein's shot of a farmer and his two sons in the Dust Bowl. The photographers behind those images come to life in ''Documenting the Face of America,'' a documentary on PBS. PAGE B1 
 'THUNDER' DETHRONES BATMAN
 ''Tropic Thunder,'' a controversial movie-industry spoof, took in an estimated $26 million at the weekend box office, knocking ''The Dark Knight'' out of the No. 1 spot after an monthlong run on top. Directed by Ben Stiller, ''Tropic Thunder'' has been dogged by the protests of advocates for people with disabilities. PAGE B1 
 DRINKING AND DRUGGING ON CAMERA
 ''Intervention,'' a reality television show in its fifth season, tricks dope fiends, alcoholics and a host of more inventive abusers into believing that they are being filmed for a documentary on addiction when actually their families are preparing to confront them in a hotel suite and tough-love them to wellness. The show is, Ginia Bellafante writes, gross, wrenching, sometimes marvelous, sometimes like ''The Montel Williams Show'' and kind of insane. PAGE B1 AN ENDURING WHYDUNIT
 What makes the case of Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb -- who murdered a 14-year-old boy named Bobby Franks in Chicago in 1924 -- so fascinating is not the who but the why. Leopold and Loeb had no trouble telling right from wrong, were unusually intelligent and came from two of the wealthiest families in Chicago. Why did they murder the schoolboy, stuff his naked body in a drainage pipe and send his parents a ransom note demanding $10,000? The answer, John Steele Gordon writes, is in the title of Simon Baatz's absorbing book, ''For the Thrill of It.'' PAGE B6 
 NOT FOR CHILDREN OF ALL AGES
 Yes, there's an R-rated stripper and a foul-mouthed M.C. with a lumpy stuffed crotch. But for all its lip service to decadence, Rachel Saltz writes, ''Absinthe,'' the naughty circus-meets-burlesque show in the Spiegeltent at Pier 17, succeeds best at its most innocent. PAGE B5 
 The Bollywood Razzle-Dazzle B5 
 Editorial
 PERILS OF AN ISRAELI TRANSITION
 History is unlikely to be kind to Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel. But he does understand that a two-state solution with the Palestinians is vital for Israel's security. We hope that his successor does as well. PAGE A20
 THE CORPORATE FREE RIDE
 Here's a crazy idea to address the United States' gaping fiscal deficit: persuade corporate America to start paying taxes. PAGE A20 
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Rick Warren's evening with the presidential contenders succeeded in one of his big goals: illustrating the differences in the candidates' worldviews. PAGE A21
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 John McCain's economic positions should make an easy target. But when it comes to the economy, Barack Obama's campaign seems oddly lethargic. PAGE A21
 DRINK INSIDE THE BOX
 In an Op-Ed article, Tyler Coleman, the author of ''Wine Politics: How Governments, Environmentalists, Mobsters and Critics Influence the Wines We Drink,'' argues that quality wines sold in a box reduce a vineyard's carbon footprint and are a great way to keep the beverage's bull market going. PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); IMMUNITY (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); AIR QUALITY (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%); THABO MBEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MONTANA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (93%); VIET NAM (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



451 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: For Convention, Obama's Image Is All-American

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the first images prime-time viewers will see of the Democratic National Convention next week is that of Michelle Obama, who will begin the four-day introduction of her husband, and her family, on her terms.
 Like everything else at the orchestrated gala, that is by design.
 Democrats face a number of imperatives at their convention, none trickier than making more voters comfortable with the prospect of putting a candidate with a most unusual background -- the son of a black Kenyan father and a white Kansan mother, who grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia -- and his family in the White House. No one, his advisers believe, makes the case better for Senator Barack Obama of Illinois than his wife, who will expand her profile by delivering one of the marquee speeches carried by television networks.
 Through four nights there will be testimonials from family members like Mr. Obama's wife and sister who will tell his ''very American story,'' in the words of one adviser, and from party luminaries like Senator Edward M. Kennedy (by videotape) and former President Bill Clinton (live) who will give Mr. Obama, the presumptive presidential nominee, the imprimatur of the party establishment. 
 At the convention beginning next Monday in Denver, there will be appearances by lesser known ''Americans from all walks of life, from across the country'' speaking about their support for Mr. Obama. Combined with a film featuring the candidate in all-American scenes by Davis Guggenheim -- the director of ''An Inconvenient Truth'' whose father produced a similar biographical film for Robert F. Kennedy -- aides to Mr. Obama are using the convention to tackle what members of both parties see as his greatest vulnerability with undecided voters: his ''otherness.'' 
 The introduction of a candidate is a task facing every presidential campaign, but one that carries unique challenges for Mr. Obama because of his race and questions about his patriotism, values and faith that Republicans have already vigorously sought to raise and exploit. 
 Mr. Obama comes into the convention -- effectively a four-night miniseries before an audience of 20 million people or more -- with many of the same objectives any Democrat would have in an age of global terrorism and economic hardship: the need to make voters see him as a potential commander in chief and a responsible steward of the economy. 
 His aides said in interviews that perhaps the most important goal of the entire program is to define the election on the Obama campaign's terms -- ''change'' versus ''more of the same'' -- from here until Election Day, with the second night of the convention being heavily devoted to contrasts between Mr. Obama and Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee. 
 ''The goal of the party convention is that people leave with a clear idea of what the choices are between the two candidates and two political parties,'' said Anita Dunn, a senior strategist for Mr. Obama. 
 But central to that choice are the candidates' backgrounds. Mr. Obama's life story, combined with his race and foreign-sounding name, adds challenges no presidential nominee from a major party has quite faced before.
 ''I'm asking a lot of the American people, and I know that,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview last month, acknowledging that his burden to win over many voters was greater because he is black. ''My biography is not typical of a modern American president.''
 Ms. Dunn said a core goal of the opening night program would be to stress ''his American journey to get to this place,'' emphasizing that ''from his background, he has a deep understanding of what American families face.''
 With Republicans pressing questions about his religious background, party planners will inaugurate the convention with an ''interfaith gathering'' of clergy. With continued e-mail attacks seeking to make hay out of Mr. Obama's biography, the convention will include regular references to ''shared values'' with a potential first family that would look different from any that has come before it. 
 People familiar with the convention planning say those references will be front and center, beginning with the opening speech by Mrs. Obama, in an effort to capitalize on what one strategist called Mr. Obama's ''prototypical nuclear family.''
 ''Opening up, it says, 'We will be your first family, and this is what we represent,' '' said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the co-chairman of Mr. Obama's campaign in that state. ''Basically what she is doing is saying: 'We are the American story. Americans say get an education, give every single thing you do your best -- we've done that, and now we're ready to be a part of fulfilling Martin Luther King's dream.' '' 
 Campaign aides and outside advisers, however, have grappled with how far convention speakers, including the candidate himself, should go in explicitly addressing race and the historic nature of his candidacy, particularly as Mr. Obama accepts the nomination on the 45th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I Have A Dream'' speech. 
 They are seeking some intimacy amid the grandiosity of Mr. Obama's acceptance speech in the Invesco Field stadium before an audience of more than 70,000, the sort of cheering throng Mr. McCain's aides have sought to use against Mr. Obama by portraying him as presiding over a cult of personality.
 When he delivers his speech on the last night of the convention, Mr. Obama will not be addressing the crowd from a lone lectern at the edge of the field; he will be standing at the 50-yard line, surrounded by a diverse set of people he has met throughout the campaign, whose presence is intended to signal to viewers at home that people like them are O.K. with Mr. Obama. Ten people selected by the campaign from all corners of the country will meet backstage with Mr. Obama and be shown to the television audience, also intended to convey their comfort level with the senator.
 By then, the convention program will probably have already established his maternal grandfather's roots in Kansas and service in World War II. The film by Mr. Guggenheim is expected to be steeped in Americana; parts of it were filmed while Mr. Obama was campaigning in the Rockwellesque town of Butte, Mont.
 Coming immediately after Mr. Obama announces his vice-presidential nominee, the convention will give Mr. Obama one of his biggest stages and television audiences of the year. (Mr. McCain has indicated his intention to run television advertisements during the coverage, and Mr. McCain is expected to appear on ''Tonight'' with Jay Leno on NBC Monday night. )
 ''There are two overriding strategic imperatives for the convention: One is to make people comfortable with Barack Obama,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster who served as a top strategist for Senator John Kerry's presidential race in 2004. ''The other is to define the race clearly and define Barack Obama as change and McCain as a continuation of Bush's policies at home and abroad.''
 Ms. Dunn, the strategist for Mr. Obama, said that would be accomplished by emphasizing the course of the country ''over the last eight years, the gridlock, and what that has meant for American families,'' and the specifics of where Mr. Obama ''wants to lead to the country.'' 
 But, aides say, another important task is uniting the party after a bruising primary between Mr. Obama, the potential first African-American nominee, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, the potential first female nominee. Women speaking at the convention include Mrs. Clinton, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri.
 None of this is to leave out Mr. Obama's solid base of enthusiastic supporters. Advisers to Mr. Obama said the gathering was built around specific tasks aimed at capitalizing on their excitement.
 For instance, when people arrive at the stadium in the hours leading up to Mr. Obama's acceptance speech, they will be urged to call or send text messages to their friends and neighbors back home, sharing pro-Obama messages or asking them to watch the speech. The idea is to turn the football stadium into a giant phone bank.
 ''We always look for opportunities to put our people to work and not just have them sit idle and listen to speeches,'' said Steve Hildebrand, the deputy campaign manager. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama's family, at an event in May in Oregon, will be an important part of the Democratic National Convention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG WAHL-STEPHENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); DRAMA FILMS (64%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



452 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2863 words

HEADLINE: How a Squabble Became a Showdown

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER, C.J. CHIVERS and CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, C. J. Chivers from Georgia and Clifford J. Levy from Moscow. Reporting was contributed by Anne Barnard and Ellen Barry from Moscow; Andrew E. Kramer from Tbilisi, Georgia; Sabrina Tavernise and Matt Siegel from Tskhinvali, Georgia; and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Helene Cooper, C. J. Chivers and Clifford J. Levy and written by Ms. Cooper.
 WASHINGTON -- Five months ago, President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia, long a darling of this city's diplomatic dinner party circuit, came to town to push for America to muscle his tiny country of four million into NATO. 
 On Capitol Hill, at the State Department and at the Pentagon, Mr. Saakashvili, brash and hyperkinetic, urged the West not to appease Russia by rejecting his country's NATO ambitions. 
 At the White House, President Bush bantered with the Georgian president about his prowess as a dancer. Laura Bush, the first lady, took Mr. Saakashvili's wife to lunch. Mr. Bush promised him to push hard for Georgia's acceptance into NATO. After the meeting, Mr. Saakashvili pronounced his visit ''one of the most successful visits during my presidency,'' and said he did not know of any other leader of a small country with the access to the administration that he had. 
 Three weeks later, Mr. Bush went to the Black Sea resort of Sochi, at the invitation of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. There, he received a message from the Russian: the push to offer Ukraine and Georgia NATO membership was crossing Russia's ''red lines,'' according to an administration official close to the talks. 
 Afterward, Mr. Bush said of Mr. Putin, ''He's been very truthful and to me, that's the only way you can find common ground.'' It was one of many moments when the United States seemed to have missed -- or gambled it could manage -- the depth of Russia's anger and the resolve of the Georgian president to provoke the Russians. 
 The story of how a 16-year, low-grade conflict over who should rule two small, mountainous regions in the Caucasus erupted into the most serious post-cold-war showdown between the United States and Russia is one of miscalculation, missed signals and overreaching, according to interviews with diplomats and senior officials in the United States, the European Union, Russia and Georgia. In many cases, the officials would speak only on the condition of anonymity.
 It is also the story of how both Democrats and Republicans have misread Russia's determination to dominate its traditional sphere of influence. 
 As with many foreign policy issues, this one highlighted a continuing fight within the administration. Vice President Dick Cheney and his aides and allies, who saw Georgia as a role model for their democracy promotion campaign, pushed to sell Georgia more arms, including Stinger antiaircraft missiles, so that it could defend itself against possible Russian aggression. 
 On the other side, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, National Security Adviser Stephen J. Hadley and William J. Burns, the new under secretary of state for political affairs, argued that such a sale would provoke Russia, which would see it as arrogant meddling in its turf, the officials and diplomats said. 
 They describe three leaders on a collision course. Mr. Bush, rewarding Georgia for its robust troop contribution to Iraq -- at 2,000, the third highest, behind the United States and Britain -- promised NATO membership and its accompanying umbrella of American military support. Mr. Putin, angry at what he saw as American infringement right in his backyard, decided that Georgia was the line in the sand that the West would not be allowed to cross. And Mr. Saakashvili, unabashedly pro-American, was determined to show, once and for all, that Georgia was no longer a vassal of Russia. 
 With a vastly more confident Russia, flush with oil money, a booming economy and a rebuilt military no longer bogged down in Chechnya, the stars were aligned for a confrontation in which Russia could, with a quick show of force, teach a lesson to the United States, Georgia and all of the former Soviet satellites and republics seeking closer ties with the West. 
 ''We have probably failed to understand that the Russians are really quite serious when they say, 'We have interests and we're going to defend them,' '' said James Collins, United States ambassador to Russia from 1997 to 2001. ''Russia does have interests, and at some point they're going to stand up and draw lines that are not simply to be ignored.''
 Georgia Makes Its Moves
 The stage for the confrontation was set in January 2004, when Mr. Saakashvili handily won the presidency after leading protests against a rigged election the previous year. He made the return of separatist areas to Georgian control a central plank of his platform. 
 It was a potent theme. Georgia had lost the wars against separatists in the 1990s, and Russia's involvement stung Georgians. Mr. Saakashvili saw international law on his side. His young government, a small circle of men in their 30s with virtually no military experience, openly endorsed this thinking. 
 Georgia increased its troop contribution to Iraq, and in return the United States provided more military training. The Georgians clearly saw this as a step toward building up a military that could be used to settle problems with the separatists at home.
 Whether they intended to build a military for fighting or deterrence is unclear. American officials said they repeatedly and bluntly told their Georgian counterparts that the Iraq mission should not be taken as a sign of American support, or as a prelude, for operations against the separatists. And it was obvious that Russia's army, which at roughly 641,000 troops is 25 times the size of Georgia's, could easily overwhelm the Georgian forces. 
 Nevertheless, the career foreign policy establishment worried that the wrong signals were being sent. ''We were training Saakashvili's army, and he was getting at least a corps of highly trained individuals, which he could use for adventures,'' said one former senior intelligence analyst, who covered Georgia and Russia at the time. ''The feeling in the intelligence community was that this was a very high-risk endeavor.''
 Mr. Saakashvili proceeded against other separatist enclaves -- retaking one, Ajaria, in 2004, and advancing high into the mountains of the upper Kodori Gorge in Abhkazia in 2006 to sweep away bands of criminals who had long controlled the place. 
 Georgia labeled it a police operation, but it was a military one: Mark Lenzi, then the country director for the nonprofit International Republican Institute, visited the region and says he saw that military markings on a helicopter had been freshly painted over with the word ''police.''
 Mr. Lenzi, who worked with Mr. Saakashvili's young government, says that in retrospect, there were risks that were not adequately assessed. ''It was a combustible,'' he said. ''But it was a little bit of the price we were willing to pay for the military cooperation in Iraq.''
 He added: ''I go back to the democracy thing. I'm not saying I gave them a big pass here. But looking back I should have pressed harder.''
 By last November, Mr. Saakashvili's democratic credentials were becoming checkered. Accused by the opposition of corruption, arrogance and centralization, he struck back against demonstrators and declared a state of emergency. After he won a snap election this year on a vote that the opposition said was subtly rigged, Mr. Saakashvili turned his attention back to the enclaves. 
 Georgia had new military equipment and the experience of Iraq. Russia had engaged in several brief air attacks and had shot down a pilotless reconnaissance plane over Georgian soil.
 Inside the Saakashvili government, officials were seething. Batu Kutelia, a first deputy minister of defense, framed the presence of Russia in the enclaves with intensity. ''Tell me,'' he asked a reporter over dinner this spring, ''would you share your wife?''
 Several Georgian officials said that night that seizing South Ossetia would be militarily easy. But there was a difference between any operation in the remaining enclaves and the successful reclamation of Ajaria and the Kodori Gorge: the remaining enclaves had large numbers of Russian troops. 
 Russian Anger
 Russia, too, was laying down its markers, strenuously protesting the West's intention to recognize the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo, set on independence after the long Balkans wars of the 1990s. The Russians insisted that independence for Kosovo would be a serious affront. Last February, the United States and the European Union, over Russia's vehement objections, recognized an independent Kosovo. 
 Mr. Putin and other Russian officials drew a parallel with Kosovo: If the West could redraw boundaries against the wishes of Russia and its ally Serbia, then Russia could redraw boundaries in South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
 By April, before the Russians had a chance to grow accustomed to an independent Kosovo, they were being confronted with what they saw as more meddling in their backyard. On April 3, the night before the NATO summit meeting in Bucharest, Romania, Mr. Bush attended a dinner with European leaders and annoyed the Germans and French by lobbying long and hard for Ukraine and Georgia to be welcomed into a Membership Action Plan that prepares nations for NATO membership. 
 Mr. Bush lost that battle, but won two others the next day that would anger Russia: NATO leaders agreed to endorse a United States missile defense system based in Eastern Europe, and the Europeans said invitations to the membership plan for Georgia and Ukraine might come in a year, at the next summit. 
 NATO leaders had invited Mr. Putin to Bucharest to speak, seeking to offset the impression that the alliance was hostile to Russia. He was cordial but clear, saying that Russia viewed ''the appearance of a powerful military bloc'' on its borders ''as a direct threat'' to its security. ''The claim that this process is not directed against Russia will not suffice,'' Mr. Putin said. ''National security is not based on promises.''
 The next day, Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin went to Sochi. ''It definitely wasn't what I would call a 'look-into-your-eyes-and-see-your-soul' meeting,'' said a Bush administration official, referring to Mr. Bush's famous line after he first met Mr. Putin. Mr. Bush had dinner with Mr. Putin and his protege and successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev, at the Russian resort, which is near Georgia. The official said the discussion centered on Ukraine and Georgia, and Mr. Putin warned, again, against the NATO push.
 Asked how Mr. Bush reacted to the warning, the official said: ''It wasn't anything we hadn't heard before.'' 
 It appeared that the Bush administration misread the depth of Russia's fury. A Bush administration official said the Americans understood that Russia was angry, but believed that they could forestall a worsening of the relationship by looking for other possibilities for cooperation. 
 Ms. Rice offered up an 11-page ''strategic framework declaration'' examining areas where the two nations could work together, which was hammered out with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, that night in Sochi. The statement included language describing how they would in the future address the issue of missile defenses the United States had proposed basing in Eastern Europe. The United States promised to work toward ''assuaging'' Russian concerns.
 Washington Weighs In
 Nine days later, on April 16, Mr. Putin took action. In one of his last formal acts as president, he issued an order that Russia was broadly expanding support for Abkhazia and South Ossetia and would establish legal connections with the regions' separatist governments. 
 Washington was quick to rally around Mr. Saakashvili. Senator John McCain, whose campaign foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann, had represented Georgia as a lobbyist, was the first to blast Russia. Mr. McCain, who already was the Republicans' presumptive presidential nominee, telephoned Mr. Saakashvili to offer support, and then told reporters on April 17 that ''we must not allow Russia to believe it has a free hand to engage in policies that undermine Georgian sovereignty.'' On April 21 came a statement from a ''deeply troubled'' Senator Barack Obama, the leading Democratic candidate. 
 ''There's no doubt that the Georgians have carefully cultivated a broad base of support in Washington,'' said Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and foreign policy adviser to the Obama campaign who has hosted dinner parties for Mr. Saakashvili in Washington.
 Within the Bush administration, ''the fight between the hawks and the doves'' erupted anew, said one administration official. In this case, the people he called the ''hawks'' --Mr. Cheney and the assistant secretary of state for Europe, Daniel Fried -- argued for more American military aid for Georgia; the ''doves'' -- Ms. Rice, Mr. Hadley, Mr. Burns -- urged restraint. 
 The United States was already providing Georgia with military aid, equipment and training, and Ms. Rice, for the time being, won the fight against adding American-provided Stinger missiles to Georgia's arsenal. 
 On April 21, Georgia accused Russia of shooting down the pilotless Georgian plane over Abkhazia and released what it said was a video of the encounter. Mr. Putin responded that he had expressed ''bewilderment'' to Mr. Saakashvili at Georgia's sending reconnaissance planes over Abkhazia.
 A senior adviser to Mr. Saakashvili said Mr. Cheney's office was more openly critical of the Russians after the episode than was the State Department, which struck a more balanced tone, asking Russia to explain their actions.
 Bush administration officials have been adamant that they told Mr. Saakashvili that the United States would not back Georgia militarily in a fight with Russia, but a senior administration official acknowledged that ''it's possible that Georgians may have confused the cheerleading from Washington with something else.''
 In May and June, Russia increased the number of troops in South Ossetia and sent troops into Abkhazia, who Moscow said were going for humanitarian purposes, Georgian and American officials said. 
 Ms. Rice traveled to Tbilisi, Georgia, in July, where, aides said, she privately told Mr. Saakashvili not to let Russia provoke him into a fight he could not win. But her public comments, delivered while standing next to Mr. Saakashvili during a news conference, were far stronger and more supportive. 
 And when she brought up NATO membership, mentioning that the Bush administration had pushed for it in Bucharest, Mr. Saakashvili jumped on the opportunity to get a public commitment that the administration would bring the matter up again with NATO before leaving office.
 ''So are you going -- I understood you are going to give a tough fight for us in December,'' he said.
 Ms. Rice: ''Always, Mr. President. We always fight for our friends.''
 The Buildup
 The Russians and the Georgians give different accounts of who provoked whom in the weeks before Aug. 7. Each side accuses the other of premeditated attack. While the public line from the Bush administration has been that Russia and Mr. Putin are largely to blame, some administration officials said the Georgian military had drawn up a ''concept of operations'' for crisis in South Ossetia that called for its army units to sweepacross the region and rapidly establish such firm control that a Russian response could be pre-empted. 
 They note that in January, the Georgian Ministry of Defense released a ''strategic defense review'' that laid out its broad military planning for the breakaway regions. As described by David J. Smith of the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, the document sets out goals for the Georgian armed forces and refers specifically to the threat of conflict in the separatist regions. 
 American officials said that they had clearly told their Georgian counterparts that the plan had little chance of success, given Kremlin statements promising to protect the local population from Georgian ''aggression'' -- and the fact of overwhelming Russian military force along the border. 
 The shelling from South Ossetia to Georgia proper increased significantly in August. On the morning of Aug. 1, five Georgian police officers were wounded by two remotely detonated explosions on a bypass road in South Ossetia, Georgian officials said. Troops from Georgia battled separatist fighters, killing at least six people; the Georgians accused the South Ossetian separatists of firing at Georgian towns behind the shelter of Russian peacekeepers.
 On Aug. 6, the separatists fired on several Georgian villages, Georgian officials said. The Russian Defense Ministry and South Ossetian officials say that Georgians provoked the escalation by shelling Russian peacekeeping positions in the region's capital of Tskhinvali, along with civilian areas. 
 The Georgians said the separatists stepped up their shelling. Foreign Minister Eka Tkeshelashvili of Georgia called Mr. Fried and told him that her country was under attack, and that Georgia had to protect its people. Mr. Fried, according to a senior administration official, told the Georgian not to go into South Ossetia. The Georgians moved in on Aug. 7.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about the origins of the conflict between Georgia and Russia overstated the European Union's action in recognizing the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo, an acknowledgement that Russia strenuously protested. Although a majority of countries in the European Union recognized Kosovo on their own, the European Union as a whole did not vote to recognize Kosovo's independence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Georgian soldiers being trained by American military instructors in December 2005 for deployment in Iraq took part in exercises at a base south of Tbilisi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) CHART: COLLISION COURSE: The events that led to Aug. 8, when Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia declared that ''war has started.'' JAN. 5, 2008 President Mikheil Saakashvili wins re-election in Georgia. FEB. 15 President Putin vows to increase support for Georgian separatists if the West recognizes the independence of Kosovo. FEB. 18 The United States and the European Union recognize Kosovo's independence. MARCH 17 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates visit Mr. Putin, who expresses approval for a proposal by President Bush meant to ease tensions over a missile defense system planned for Poland and the Czech Republic. MARCH 19 Mr. Saakashvili visits Washington. President Bush says he will push hard for Georgian admission to NATO. APRIL 4 NATO agrees to a U.S. proposal for a European missile defense system, and says Ukraine and Georgia can someday become members. APRIL 5 Mr. Bush meets with Mr. Putin, who warns that Russia will object to NATO membership for Ukraine and Georgia. APRIL 16 Mr. Putin leaves the Russian presidency and becomes prime minister. Before stepping down, he establishes ties with separatist governments in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. APRIL 21 Georgia accuses Russia of shooting down a pilotless Georgian reconnaissance plane over Abkhazia. APRIL 29 Russia sends additional troops to Abkhazia. JUNE 6 Mr. Saakashvili meets with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, who tells him NATO membership will deepen tensions between the two countries. JULY 8 Russian fighters fly into Georgian airspace over South Ossetia. JULY 10 Ms. Rice visits Georgia and tells Mr. Saakashvili not to provoke the Russians. Georgia recalls its ambassador from Moscow. AUG. 1 Five Georgian police officers are wounded in South Ossetia. AUG. 7 Georgian troops push into Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia. Fighting begins, and, according to Russian officials, thousands of refugees flee into Russia. AUG. 8 Russian troops and armored vehicles enter South Ossetia, and Russia begins airstrikes on targets elsewhere in Georgia. (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); DICK CHENEY (57%); ROBERT M GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GEORGIA (98%); UKRAINE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



453 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economy Stupor

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
By rights, John McCain should be getting hammered on economics.
 After all, Mr. McCain proposes continuing the policies of a president who's had a truly dismal economic record -- job growth under the current administration has been the slowest in 60 years, even slower than job growth under the first President Bush. And the public blames the White House, giving Mr. Bush spectacularly low ratings on his handling of the economy. 
 Meanwhile, The Times reports that, according to associates, Mr. McCain still ''dials up'' Phil Gramm, the former senator who resigned as co-chairman of the campaign after calling America a ''nation of whiners'' and dismissing the country's economic woes as nothing more than a ''mental recession.'' And Mr. Gramm is still considered a top pick for Treasury secretary. 
 So Mr. McCain would seem to offer a target a mile wide: a die-hard supporter of failed economic policies who takes his advice from people completely out of touch with the lives of working Americans. 
 But while polls continue to show that the public, by a large margin, trusts Democrats more than Republicans to handle the economy, recent polling shows that Barack Obama has at best a small edge over Mr. McCain on the issue -- four points in a recent Time magazine poll, and he is one point behind according to Rasmussen Reports, which does automated polling. And Mr. Obama's failure to achieve a decisive edge on economic policy is central to his failure to open up a big lead in overall polling.
 Why isn't the Obama campaign getting more traction on economic issues?
 It's not the Republican offensive on offshore drilling. It's true that many Americans have apparently been misled by bogus claims about gas price relief. But as I've already pointed out, Democrats in general retain a large edge on economic issues.
 Nor is there any valid basis for the complaints, highlighted in Sunday's Times, that Mr. Obama isn't offering enough policy specifics. Delve into the Obama campaign Web site and you'll find plenty of policy detail. And the campaign's ads reel off lots of specific policy proposals -- too many, if you ask me. 
 No, the problem isn't lack of specifics -- it's lack of passion. When it comes to the economy, Mr. Obama's campaign seems oddly lethargic.
 I was astonished at the flatness of the big economy speech he gave in St. Petersburg at the beginning of this month -- a speech that was billed as the start of a new campaign focus on economic issues. Mr. Obama is a great orator, yet he began that speech with a litany of statistics that were probably meaningless to most listeners.
 Worse yet, he seemed to go out of his way to avoid scoring political points. ''Back in the 1990s,'' he declared, ''your incomes grew by $6,000, and over the last several years, they've actually fallen by nearly $1,000.'' Um, not quite: real median household income didn't rise $6,000 during ''the 1990s,'' it did so during the Clinton years, after falling under the first Bush administration. Income hasn't fallen $1,000 in ''recent years,'' it's fallen under George Bush, with all of the decline taking place before 2005.
 Obama surrogates have shown a similar inclination to go for the capillaries rather than the jugular. A recent Wall Street Journal op-ed by two Obama advisers offered another blizzard of statistics almost burying the key point -- that most Americans would pay lower taxes under the Obama tax plan than under the McCain plan. 
 All this makes a stark contrast with the campaign of the last Democrat to make it to the White House, who had no trouble conveying passion over matters economic. 
 In his speech accepting the Democratic nomination in 1992, a year in which economic conditions somewhat resembled those today, Bill Clinton denounced his opponent as someone ''caught in the grip of a failed economic theory.'' Where Mr. Obama spoke cryptically in St. Petersburg about a ''reckless few'' who ''game the system, as we've seen in this housing crisis'' -- I know what he meant, I think, but how many voters got it? -- Mr. Clinton declared that ''those who play by the rules and keep the faith have gotten the shaft, and those who cut corners and cut deals have been rewarded.'' That's the kind of hard-hitting populism that's been absent from the Obama campaign so far.
 Of course, Mr. Obama hasn't given his own acceptance speech yet. Al Gore found a new populist fervor in August 2000, and surged in the polls. A comparable surge by Mr. Obama would give him a landslide victory this year. 
 But it's up to him. If Mr. Obama can't find the passion on economic matters that has been lacking in his campaign so far, he may yet lose this election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PHIL GRAMM (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008



454 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Accounts
 Hulu.com, Los Angeles, the online video service, awarded a new assignment to Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami and Boulder, Colo. The agency will handle the creative and media account for Hulu, which is a joint venture between NBC Universal, part of General Electric, and the News Corporation. Ads will appear in media owned by those companies as well as in other outlets; the value of the spending is estimated at $50 million. Crispin Porter is part of MDC Partners. 
 New York & Company, the retail chain, selected Toth Brand Imaging, Cambridge, Mass., for brand and marketing duties. Toth will work with an internal team at the retailer on print, outdoor and online ads as well as on efforts in the chain's stores. Although spending was not disclosed, New York & Company spent $2.5 million for ads last year. 
 People
 Deborah Thomas joined the Los Angeles office of Initiative, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as senior vice president and group account director on its new Hyundai Motor America account. Ms. Thomas, a longtime automotive marketing executive, had most recently been media manager at Nissan North America, Franklin, Tenn., part of the Nissan Motor Company. Hyundai Motor is a unit of the Hyundai Kia Automotive Group.
 Harvey Marco joined the flagship New York office of JWT, part of the WPP Group, as chief creative officer. He assumes the post from Ty Montague, who will continue as co-president of the office with Rosemarie Ryan. Mr. Marco had been executive creative director at the Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 John Russell, president at Leopold Ketel & Partners, Portland, Ore., resigned to pursue other opportunities, the agency said. The agency is seeking a successor who will be hired as managing director.
 Miscellany
 Eric Mower & Associates acquired some fixed assets of Sawchuk Brown Associates, Albany, which will be absorbed into the Mower office in Albany. Financial terms were not disclosed. The 13 employees of Sawchuk Brown will join the Mower office and the Sawchuk Brown clients are expected to do so as well. Pamela Sawchuk Brown, president and chief executive at Sawchuk Brown, is joining Mower as a partner; Robert J. Bellafiore, a senior partner at Mower, will oversee the management and direction of the Albany office with her. The deal is the third this year for Mower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK & CO INC (91%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); HULU LLC (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); NEWS CORP (72%); TOTH BRAND IMAGING (71%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (68%); HYUNDAI KIA AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (68%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); WPP PLC (58%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (55%); JWT (55%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (55%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (54%); ERIC MOWER & ASSOCIATES INC (53%); SAWCHUK BROWN ASSOCIATES (53%)

TICKER: NWY (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); 7201 (TSE) (68%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); HYUD (LSE) (55%); 005380 (KSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (91%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (91%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (74%); OREGON, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



455 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Council Speaker Has a Voice; She Calls Him Dad

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
He is trotted out, he says affably, ''for Irish stuff, veterans' stuff, union stuff and senior stuff.''
Lawrence P. Quinn, 81, the father of City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, is by far New York City's most visible political parent. He has an office in the basement of City Hall and sends the speaker memos on strategy. He has soothed her staff as she confronts her biggest political crisis so far, a criminal investigation into City Council finances, and even drives her around at times in his beat-up 1995 Toyota Corolla wagon.
Mr. Quinn, a one-time union steward, is Ms. Quinn's link to -- and tutor in -- the old machine-style politics of relationship-building and favor-trading. He is on a first-name basis with the city's political powerbrokers, and helped her build good will among council members, especially beyond her Manhattan base, as she cobbled together the coalition that made her the first female speaker two years ago.
Now, as she sets out to persuade voters citywide that she should be mayor, Mr. Quinn is expected to play a starring role in her campaign. 
It is a role more typically played by a spouse, and although the speaker's partner, Kim Catullo, appears occasionally at her side, she is a corporate lawyer and lacks the time and endless enthusiasm needed for the political circuit.
''I like to think of myself,'' Mr. Quinn said, ''as a trophy wife.''
His significance extends beyond any aw-shucks, photo-op appeal: Mr. Quinn, a practicing Catholic, Navy veteran of World War II and a New Deal Democrat, serves as a powerful counterbalance to his 42-year-old daughter, a policy wonk, open lesbian and liberal activist.
He is sometimes bluntly critical of Ms. Quinn, the younger of his two children, even when talking to prospective voters.
''I don't agree with her, either,'' the speaker said she once heard her father explain to a senior citizen in her district. ''But listen, if she loses, she's unemployed and I'm going to have to pay her rent. So I am going to check you as a yes, thanks so much.''
Despite regular appearances together -- at luncheons, parades and rallies -- the Quinns' relationship remains largely unexamined. In public, she is the boisterous, wisecracking daughter, he the dutiful, taciturn father.
He raised her largely alone after her mother died of breast cancer when Ms. Quinn was 16. Both take pains to emphasize their emotional detachment, pointing to their Irish roots as an explanation. ''Nobody touches anybody. You never saw us kiss, did you?'' Mr. Quinn says. ''It's the Cagney school of emotional control.''
In private, however, Mr. Quinn emerges as a doting father and savvy political aide, whom his daughter leans on for both logistical and emotional support.
Ms. Quinn has several aides who help her shape strategy. Still, she said her father's advice ''is very helpful,'' adding, ''It's nice to know that he is pulling for me and supporting me.''
Mr. Quinn, who is unpaid, much to his chagrin, is also the rare adviser who can speak with impunity. He worries aloud that Ms. Quinn sends out too much mail to constituents. ''People in her district seem to require a lot of hand-holding,'' he said.
His latest observation: during news interviews, his daughter ''talks too much.''
''I thought she was once reasonably succinct,'' he said. ''I think now that she is not cutting it short enough.''
When told of his criticism, Ms. Quinn agreed: ''I hate to admit it, but he is probably right. And others, who are actually communications professionals, have noted that.''
Mr. Quinn offers unvarnished views on his daughter's potential rivals, too, and does not temper his criticism of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a close ally of his daughter. ''The mayor says he travels by subway. He hardly uses the subway,'' he said. ''I really use the subway.''
Mr. Quinn originally opposed his daughter's entry into politics. He wanted her to be an accountant or a lawyer. But by the age of 10, neighbors in Glen Cove on Long Island had already nicknamed Ms. Quinn ''the mayor of Libby Drive,'' a reference to her street, after watching her organize playmates.
When Ms. Quinn decided to pursue politics, her father -- a regular presence at softball games and science fairs -- tagged along. The two have worked on more than a dozen campaigns, including Thomas K. Duane's 1991 bid for Council, Fernando Ferrer's run for mayor in 2005 and Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate campaign in 2000, to name a few.
After Ms. Quinn won a Council seat in 1999, her father followed her to work, sorting mail, filing documents and answering phones in her district office.
During her re-election campaign in 2005, he was farmed out to multiple City Council campaigns, a strategy he suspects helped his daughter win the speaker's job. ''If you volunteer on a lot of people's campaigns, and send out troops,'' he said, ''then they are obligated to vote for you then. And it worked. She got to be the speaker.''
His visits to City Hall, where his daughter has a large office, became so frequent afterward that her staff gave him a small workspace in the basement, where he reads the day's newspapers, waiting for assignments.
Ms. Quinn calls her father ''an all-purpose schlepper, which is critical in politics and government. Things need to be moved from place to place, things need to be picked up, things need to be mailed.''
Her father complains loudly about his work -- ''It's not volunteerism; I am forced to do it'' -- but he concedes that he would be lonely without it. ''All my pals are dead or are not taking visitors anymore,'' said Mr. Quinn, who retired from electrical engineering in 1991 and lives alone on the Upper West Side.
''Complaining,'' one Quinn staff member said, ''is part of his shtick.''
He clearly understands his role as political sidekick, and wryly describes his assignments, such as attending ''Chicken Day'' lunches with elderly voters.
''Chicken Day at senior centers draws the largest crowd,'' he said, ''because they have chicken, as opposed to some kind of mystery meat. I went to a lot of them. I was cautioned not to take anything, not to eat anything. I was presented as Christine's father -- the old guy.
''You stand around, look personable. I have my picture taken. She made me go. I didn't want to go,'' he added impishly.
''If they wanted to, I would talk to people -- about the old days, about how terrible things are now.''
His work comes with perks. He has met every major political figure in the city, visited the White House and had a front-row seat for the pope's visit to New York.
In political circles, Mr. Quinn has attained a certain celebrity status. Outside a luncheon in Harlem the other day, as Ms. Quinn prepared to work the room, Representative Charles B. Rangel and Councilwoman Inez E. Dickens rushed past her to greet her father. Ms. Quinn bristles at the idea that her father's visibility is in any way stage-managed. ''We do things together,'' she said. ''I go to things as speaker that I think he would like to go to. So we go to them together.''
For all its closeness, the relationship is by no means perfect. It was severely tested when, in her mid-20s, Ms. Quinn told her father she was gay.
''You should never say that again,'' she once recalled him saying.
But they worked through it, and Mr. Quinn is now a reluctant but consistent supporter of gay causes. He regularly marches in the annual Gay Pride Parade, and, according to Ms. Quinn, he sometimes uses ''we'' to speak of the gay community.
Mr. Quinn has become close to Anthony Catullo, the father of Ms. Quinn's partner. The two men, both military veterans and widowers, lounge together on the beach in New Jersey on summer weekends, where Ms. Quinn has a house.
Major policy disagreements persist between father and daughter. Mr. Quinn opposed congestion pricing, has long decried rent control laws, and advocates putting an atomic energy plant on Governors Island, just off Manhattan.
''For the record,'' his daughter said, ''I'm against the nuclear power plant on Governors Island, I'm for rent protection and I'm for congestion pricing.''
If, as is expected, Ms. Quinn runs for mayor in 2009, her father is expected to be seen around the city even more. Ms. Quinn's appeal is expected to be strongest in liberal-leaning Manhattan; she represents Greenwich Village, Chelsea and Hell's Kitchen. But she is likely to have a harder time in the more conservative communities of Staten Island and Queens, where her father's background could prove an asset.
Ms. Quinn will say nothing concrete about her plans, but her father, perhaps not surprisingly, is happy to discuss the topic. He says he has not encouraged her one way or the other, but has told her, ''You must know how the place runs. Certainly, if you run half the city, there is no reason you cannot shift and do the other half of the city.''
Ms. Quinn, for all her reticence, will say this: ''Whatever the next thing is, my father will be part of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker Christine C. Quinn with her father, Lawrence, who tells her a thing or two about politics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Lawrence P. Quinn, Ms. Quinn's father, greets Councilwoman Inez E. Dickens at his daughter's appearance in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MAYORS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (56%); BREAST CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



456 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: S.I. Rampage Raises Issue Of Bias Crime

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; Maureen Seaberg and Al Baker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Aurora Mendoza was just closing up the pizzeria where she works on Port Richmond Avenue on Staten Island when she heard the sounds of destruction late Sunday night or early Monday. She peered outside and saw a man, visibly agitated, swinging a hammer at the storefront next to hers. 
 ''We were nervous,'' she said on Monday. ''Before we knew it, he got into a red truck and started driving into the front of the store,'' a hair salon and gift shop. 
 Other witnesses said that they saw the man ramming his pickup truck into two other storefronts, a grocery store and a restaurant, a couple of blocks away. Because all three businesses cater to a Mexican clientele and have different owners, some community leaders feared that the rampage was motivated by ethnic hatred. 
 However, a spokesman for the New York City Police Department, Paul J. Browne, said that by Monday evening, the case had not been classified as a hate crime. The destruction occurred along a stretch of Port Richmond Avenue, on the north shore of the island, where Mexican-oriented businesses have appeared in recent years, rejuvenating a once-ghostly retail corridor.
 While there have been assaults on individual immigrants, including three beating deaths in three years, this was the first attack on a business in recent memory, said the Rev. Terry Troia, executive director of Project Hospitality, a nonprofit group whose activities include running a gang-intervention program in the Port Richmond neighborhood.
 ''This commercial strip had a 40 percent vacancy rate 10 to 15 years ago, and today it's filled,'' she said. ''This has been a huge economic boon in this community. People welcome that businesses are opening here. For them to be intimidated after doing so much to help the economy here is wrong.''
 But the owners of the damaged businesses were clearly worried that the vandal, described by witnesses as a tall white man in his 30s, was still at large. 
 ''I'm worried that he would do it again when our customers are here,'' said Omar Sanchez, an owner of Mexico Supermarket Monte Alban, at 170 Port Richmond Avenue. ''I don't want people to get hurt over racism.''
 The store's security gates, mangled by the force of the pickup truck, no longer slid up. Shards of plate glass lay on the sidewalk. Tire marks were visible in the street outside two of the businesses. Mr. Sanchez, who moved to Staten Island from Puebla, Mexico, 13 years ago, said he and his in-laws stood to lose $5,000 to $6,000 a day until they could reopen.
 A few doors down, at Los Potrillos Taqueria Restaurant, Maria Morales, the owner, said she, too, would need to clean up quickly to stay afloat. ''We work really hard, and it's really sad because I don't understand why people would do this,'' she said. ''We're open 14 hours a day, seven days a week, and we don't bother anyone.''
 Ms. Troia, who also helped start a day laborer center in Port Richmond, said about 15,000 Mexican immigrants were living in that diverse neighborhood, one dominated by black, Mexican and Mexican-American residents but with Egyptian and Southeast Asian immigrants as well. 
 Tensions have existed for years, but clergy members and community leaders have worked to connect the disparate communities, Ms. Troia said. ''We've come a long way,'' she said. ''It's sad, but it's not reflective of the overall diversity of this community and Staten Island. It's not who we are. It's who one particular person was last night.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Javier Flores, 10, views the damage at Los Potrillos restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); RETAILERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); WITNESSES (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); RACE & RACISM (71%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



457 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Game Maker Retracts Bid For a Rival

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Strauss Zelnick, chairman of the video game maker Take-Two Interactive, was on a luxury camping vacation in British Columbia when he was interrupted by an unexpected call on Friday.
 It was John Riccitiello, chief executive of a rival, Electronic Arts, who told Mr. Zelnick that after six months of rejection, Electronic Arts was considering scrapping its $2 billion hostile takeover bid for Take-Two.
 The call was cordial and did not leave Mr. Zelnick anxious despite the implications for his company. Indeed, after the call, he continued with his family vacation of hikes, massages and gourmet food provided at the Clayoquot Wilderness Resort near Tofino, British Columbia. 
 On Monday, Electronic Arts indeed decided not to renew that tender offer.
 ''If this doesn't work for E.A., then I guess it doesn't work for them,'' Mr. Zelnick said Monday in a phone interview. ''I'm totally fine with that, and so are our shareholders.''
 Mr. Zelnick's nonchalance may be part of a high-stakes tactic. The back and forth that has agonized investors for months is not yet over. The two companies agreed -- in an exchange of carefully worded letters -- to arrange a meeting to see whether there might yet be common ground for a friendlier merger discussion.
 But some investors in both companies are not feeling so peaceful. That is particularly true at Take-Two, where many of the shareholders are short-term investors who bet heavily that they could turn a quick profit if Electronic Arts agreed to raise its offer price of $25.74 a share.
 Shares of Take-Two closed at $23.75, a drop of roughly 4.4 percent from Friday's close. 
 Given the activity in Take-Two shares on Monday -- 4.5 million shares, roughly three times the average trading volume -- ''clearly, the market is telling us that the likelihood of a deal getting done has gone down,'' said Arvind Bhatia, an industry analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach. ''That is going to make the shareholder group at Take-Two very unhappy.''
 The turn of events seems to indicate the odds have grown considerably longer for a union of two of the biggest names in the video game industry, and two companies with vastly different cultures and strengths -- both of which are dealing with challenges to their long-term growth.
 Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City, Calif., is a relatively buttoned-down media company that has built its reputation on putting out sequels of hit games, like the Madden football franchise, but it has been criticized for lacking creativity. It reported weaker-than-expected first-quarter sales last month, and its stock price sank to a two-year low earlier this month, at $41.80.
 Its shares closed Monday at $47.76, down 1 percent from Friday's close.
 For its part, Take-Two, based in New York, controls one of the world's most successful and creative game studios, Rockstar Games, which makes the hit video game franchise Grand Theft Auto. But it is a relatively small company in a consolidating industry. 
 Electronic Arts, which is eyeing Grand Theft Auto, first made a bid of $25 a share in mid-February and raised it a few days later to the current price. The offer turned hostile after Take-Two's management rejected it.
 Under the agreement reached by the two companies, Mr. Zelnick said Take-Two would make a presentation in the coming weeks to Electronic Arts explaining why it believes it should be acquired for more than $25.74. That is a price that Take-Two has previously rejected, forcing Electronic Arts to make its hostile bid.
 In a letter sent Sunday, Mr. Zelnick said he welcomed the opportunity to show Mr. Riccitiello new, nonpublic information that, Mr. Zelnick wrote, ''will enable you to understand better the value of our company to E.A.''
 Yet the stated positions of the two companies seemed to leave little room that they might reach a friendly accord. 
 Mr. Zelnick said in his interview that he was responsible to all of Take-Two's shareholders, the long-term holders and not just the group of investors eager to see a deal done quickly. Yielding to a price at or below $25.74 would not be in the company's long-term interest, he reiterated.
 Electronic Arts said that given changing circumstances, it no longer intended to pay as much as $25.74. ''Enough time has passed that our economic model is obsolete,'' said Jeff Brown, an Electronic Arts spokesman. ''We can no longer integrate their titles into our global distribution for the holiday.''
 Mr. Brown said that Electronic Arts' interest in Take-Two was diminished by recently published research showing a slowdown in the sales of Grand Theft Auto IV, the latest iteration of the hit game. In July, American retailers sold 132,000 copies of Grand Theft Auto IV, down from 400,000 in June and 1.3 million in May, according to Mr. Bhatia, the analyst, citing data provided by the NPD Group.
 The sales slowdown ''was one of the reasons we decided to pull our tender offer,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Mr. Zelnick said that Grand Theft Auto IV had performed better than expected since its April release and that it still had much life in it.
 Evan Wilson, an industry analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, said he was skeptical that Take-Two could present Electronic Arts with new information that would inspire a bid at or above the $25.74 price. 
 Mr. Wilson said that Take-Two had entered into discussions with other possible suitors, but that no deals had been struck, suggesting the other suitors were underwhelmed by Take-Two's prospects. 
 If the two companies do not reach a deal, ''Take-Two is in a world of hurt, but that's not the case quite yet,'' Mr. Wilson said.
 ''We're very pleased with value we've created and feel very sanguine about the future,'' Mr. Zelnick said, adding that he was not relaxed simply because he has been enjoying the outdoors. ''I'm relaxed because I feel confident,'' he said, about the company's future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CAMPING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TENDER OFFERS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); MERGERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (92%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (58%); STERNE AGEE GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (92%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN RICCITIELLO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



458 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: A Vital Democratic Process

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Social Initiatives on State Ballots Could Draw Attention to Presidential Race'' (news article, Aug. 11): 
 I question the wisdom of viewing statewide ballot measures through the prism of presidential politics. This view has little to do with the unique authority in many states permitting citizens to vote or propose laws on issues gridlocked in the state legislature or stonewalled by other power centers. 
 While some 2008 measures fall into this category, most seem designed to increase the cash flow of political consultants closed out from presidential races. 
 In contrast, in 2006, the field was dominated by measures that grew from the grass roots in opposition to Kelo v. City of New London, the 2005 Supreme Court decision affirming the power to use eminent domain for private economic development. 
 These initiatives did not fit easily into ''liberal'' or ''conservative'' slots, and for that reason were picked up, wrongly, as an ideal piggyback vehicle for an anti-regulatory agenda that legislatures would not approve. 
 These ballot measures were driven by issues, not candidates. Homogenizing the initiative and referendum process will further erode public support for this distinctive, vital feature of our diverse democracy.
 Phyllis Myers Washington, Aug. 11, 2008
 The writer is a planning consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BALLOTS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (53%); APPEALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



459 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Infected Galapagos Penguins Could Get Avian Malaria

BYLINE: By ERICA GIES

 BODY:
A parasite has been found in Galapagos penguins, raising fears among researchers that it could lead to avian malaria, a disease that contributed significantly to the 50 percent extinction rate of endemic birds in Hawaii. 
 The discovery resulted from a long-term study to monitor diseases in Galapagos birds, conducted by researchers from the University of Missouri, St. Louis, the St. Louis Zoo, Galapagos National Park and the Charles Darwin Foundation.
 Unlike Hawaii and other remote island archipelagos, the Galapagos, 600 miles off Ecuador, retains 95 percent of its original species and all of its birds. ''It's about the best record that exists on Earth,'' said Patty Parker, a professor of zoological studies at the University of Missouri, St. Louis, who discovered the parasite in the penguins. Ninety-seven percent of the land is protected, and the surrounding waters are one of the world's largest marine reserves.
 Dr. Parker said the parasite was in the genus Plasmodium, which includes several malaria-causing species. The recently discovered parasite appears to be a new species and is so far unnamed. 
 The parasite was probably introduced by human activity, she said. Tourism has increased to 140,000 visitors in 2006 from 40,000 in 1990. 
 That has drawn immigrants from mainland Ecuador who work in the tourist industry, driving the population to an estimated 30,000 from about 8,000 in 1990.
 In 2007, the archipelago, a Unesco natural heritage site, was labeled ''in danger'' by the international body.
 The number of invasive insects arriving on the islands, presumably with the influx of people, has increased ''exponentially,'' Dr. Parker said.
 This incursion is likely to continue, at least in the near future. Tourism accounts for 51 percent of the economy, according to a Darwin Foundation report. 
 Recently introduced quarantines, which fumigate incoming passenger planes and the supplies of researchers headed for uninhabited islands, are encouraging to experts but not comprehensive. For example, there are no controls on private boats, and cargo ships are not treated the same as commercial tour ships.
 Researchers do not yet know if the Plasmodium species in the penguins is a threat. The birds seem healthy. That could be because that particular Plasmodium species does not cause malaria. Or the parasite could be biding its time, waiting to proliferate in the penguins during periods of stress, like a food shortage, other disease or the rainy El Nino, which causes insect populations to explode. 
 Researchers are trying to determine what sort of mosquito is transmitting the parasite to penguins. In Hawaii, the culprit was Culex quinquefasciatus, a species of mosquito that arrived in the Galapagos in the mid-1980s. 
 The other possibility is Ochlerotatus taeniorhynchus, a mosquito that may be native to the archipelago. This species can also carry the parasite that causes malaria. 
 Park managers would like to eradicate the guilty mosquito, and that may be possible with Culex because it needs fresh water to breed, a limited resource during the dry season. Ochlerotatus breeds in brackish water, however, which is found all over the islands, so eradication would be difficult. 
 Additionally, if the mosquito is native, it would be protected, said Dr. Virna Cedeno, director of the Fabricio Valverde Laboratory in the Galapagos. ''It may not be as nice as a penguin,'' Dr. Cedeno said. ''But it would be a species to protect nevertheless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THREATENED: Researchers monitoring diseases in Galapagos birds discovered a new parasite in penguins that was probably introduced by humans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB HAYES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MALARIA (90%); BIRDS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (86%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); WEATHER (75%); MARINE SHIPPING (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); TOURISM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); IMMIGRATION (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (62%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (84%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



460 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH NINA V. FEDOROFF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: An Advocate for Science Diplomacy

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
When she was a single mother in the early 1960s, Nina V. Fedoroff, 66, defied odds and conventionality by working her way through college, graduate school and postdoctoral studies. Dr. Fedoroff, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, did fundamental research on plant transposons, or jumping genes, and was among the first to clone plant DNA. She is science adviser to the secretary of state and administrator of the Agency for International Development. We spoke last month in Washington and later on the telephone. An edited version of the conversations follows.
 Q. WHEN YOU GAVE A RECENT SPEECH AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY ADVOCATING GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS, SOMEONE SITTING NEAR ME SAID, ''OH GREAT, OUR STATE DEPARTMENT IS PUSHING G.M. FOOD. SHE'S THE AMBASSADOR FROM MONSANTO.'' WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE?
 A. How do I answer him? My answer is: There's almost no food that isn't genetically modified. Genetic modification is the basis of all evolution. 
 Things change because our planet is subjected to a lot of radiation, which causes DNA damage, which gets repaired, but results in mutations, which create a ready mixture of plants that people can choose from to improve agriculture.
 In the last century, as we learned more about genes, we were able to devise ways of accelerating evolution. 
 So a lot of modern plant strains were created by applying chemicals or radiation to cause mutations that improved the crop. That's how plant breeding was done in the 20th century. The paradox is that now that we've invented techniques that introduce just one gene without disturbing the rest, some people think that's terrible. 
 Q. WHY DO YOU THINK THERE IS SUCH FIERCE OPPOSITION TO GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS?
 A. This is an unintended consequence of our success. We've gotten so good at growing food that we've gone, in a few generations, from nearly half of Americans living on farms to 2 percent. We no longer think about how the wonderful things in the grocery store got there, and we'd like to go back to what we think is a more natural way. 
 But I'm afraid we can't, in part, because there are just too many of us in this world. If everybody switched to organic farming, we couldn't support the earth's current population -- maybe half. 
 Q. YOU BELIEVE THAT ENVIRONMENTALISTS SHOULD BE EMBRACING GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS. WHAT'S YOUR ARGUMENT?
 A. If we put more land under cultivation to feed the world's growing population, we're going to pull down the remaining forests. 
 And if that happens, it will contribute tremendously to desertification. The more we can grow on already cultivated land, the better. Europe, North America, Australia, Japan -- we've been extremely successful in applying science to agriculture and we can afford to say, ''Let's go natural.'' But there's collateral damage. 
 When I went to Rwanda, you saw farmers with holdings of less than an acre. 
 If their population doubles again, we're looking at more strife. Arguably, Darfur isn't about politics, it's about water. Many of the conflicts in the poorest countries are about too many people chasing too few resources. Do we have time to transition something that looks like Rwanda to a more efficient agriculture and to do it wisely enough to absorb the people? 
 Q. WHY DOES THE SECRETARY OF STATE NEED A SCIENCE ADVISER?
 A. Because science and technology are the drivers of the 21st century's most successful economies. 
 There are more than six billion of us, and the problems of a crowded planet are everyone's: food, water, energy, climate change, environmental degradation. Other nations, even those that have lost respect for our culture and politics, still welcome collaboration on scientific and technological issues. 
 Q. REPRESENTATIVE GEORGE E. BROWN JR., ONCE THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE SCIENCE COMMITTEE, WORRIED THAT BECAUSE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES WERE NOT FINANCED, THE UNITED STATES WAS HURTING ITSELF WITH EMPTY GESTURES. WAS HE RIGHT?
 A. That's a great question and a very current one. Yes, the State Department opens doors by negotiating government-to-government S&T agreements. It also takes the first step in fleshing out such agreements by bringing scientists, ministers and agency representatives together to explore mutual interests. But actually supporting collaborative research on problems of mutual interest, that's just beginning to be recognized as important. 
 George Brown was right -- without the resources to support collaborations, it's much less than it could be. There are members of Congress who are keenly interested in science diplomacy. 
 But Congress will have to make a bigger investment for science diplomacy to flourish.
 Q. CAN YOU NAME A SITUATION WHERE SCIENCE DIPLOMACY CHANGED HISTORY?
 A. History isn't like a science experiment. You can't go back and rerun it ''without science diplomacy'' to see what happens. 
 Nonetheless, some historians credit ongoing relationships between Soviet and American scientists, particularly physicists, with preventing a flash-over of the cold war. 
 Today scientific interactions exist between the U.S. and certain countries with which we have no formal diplomatic relations. We're promoting scientific interactions to address water and health issues among the countries of the Middle East. Our recent interactions with Libya had science and technology as a centerpiece, ranging from a major international astronomical event around a solar eclipse, to addressing issues of health, water desalinization and agriculture.
 Another example of science diplomacy is a small group, the Israeli-Palestinian Science Organization. A project they're doing that I'm enthusiastic about involves genetic assessments. There are some diseases unique to the region that may have a genetic basis. The question is: Which genes and how do you identify them? With that group, I see how science is a real force for bringing people together. 
 Q. WHY CAN SCIENCE CREATE COOPERATION IN PLACES WHERE EVERYTHING ELSE FAILS?
 A. Because science is more collaborative than other types of endeavors. It aspires to more democratic principles than many political systems because we have an external reference. 
 People can have different theories, but we form an experiment to test it. It's the evidence that matters. So in science, we can have differences of opinion, but we can't have two sets of facts. 
 There is an in-built process that says, ''You and I may have different religions, different politics, but we can talk about science across chasms.''
 When she was a single mother in the early 1960s, Nina V. Fedoroff, 66, defied odds and conventionality by working her way through college, graduate school and postdoctoral studies. Dr. Fedoroff, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, did fundamental research on plant transposons, or jumping genes, and was among the first to clone plant DNA. She is science adviser to the secretary of state and administrator of the Agency for International Development. We spoke last month in Washington and later on the telephone. An edited version of the conversations follows. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); DNA (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (77%); CLONING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); AGRONOMY (77%); BOTANY (77%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); LAND DEGRADATION (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



461 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Bounty of a Cape Cod Farm Only Starts With Its Crops

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: DENNIS, Mass. 

 BODY:
Kyle Kratschman is new to farming, though he can already deftly prune damaged leaves from cucumber plants like a seasoned gardener.
 Mr. Kratschman, 23, who was born with only 20 percent of normal hearing and suffered a brain injury as a teenager, works on a farm here operated by Cape Abilities, a nonprofit organization that provides employment and other services for people with disabilities on Cape Cod. The 50 or so employees learn to grow produce like tomatoes, eggplant, cucumbers and lettuce, then sell it at a stand on site.
 The little farm -- four hydroponic greenhouses resting on a little more than eight acres -- opened as a Cape Abilities venture two years ago, having been donated by John Milligan, a member of the organization's board. Larry Thayer, president and executive director, thought it would be a good complement to the nonprofit's other businesses, which include a vending machine service and document shredding and scanning. 
 ''Employment is a challenge on the Cape, despite its growth,'' Mr. Thayer said. ''It's still a tourist-based economy, and year-round people are looking to be employed in a meaningful way.'' 
 Employees of Cape Abilities Farm earn up to $10 an hour, and work up to 20 hours a week. Annual operating costs amount to some $250,000, against revenue of $200,000, though Mr. Thayer says he hopes to turn a profit soon.
 In getting into farming, Cape Abilities has joined a handful of other nonprofits that offer farm-related programs for people with disabilities. The Plowshare Farm in Greenfield, N.H., is a residential farm, unlike the one here. So are the Farm in the Dell, which has three locations in Montana and one in Pennsylvania, and Thanksgiving Farm in Harris, N.Y.
 In setting out, Mr. Thayer and others at Cape Abilities first needed to learn how to run a hydroponic farm, in which plants are grown not in soil but inside greenhouses and are fed by a mineral- and nutrient-filled solution that is pumped into trays where the plants rest. Dozens of bees buzz around the greenhouses, pollinating the crops.
 For support in learning, Mr. Thayer leaned on Mr. Milligan, the farm's donor, and also hired a former hydroponic farmer. Tom Zurn, the employment manager, had grown up close to farms in Minnesota, and learned hydroponics quickly. 
 The first year was about getting settled and learning how to grow. Last year the farm started to produce a bounty of eggplant, lettuce, cucumbers and its anchor crop, tomatoes. This year the goal is to grow 30,000 pounds of tomatoes to be sold at the farm and at farmers' markets in the area, with local restaurants among the customers.
 And that is not all. Cape Abilities Farm this year added a conventional, soil-planting farm in the nearby community of Marstons Mills, where it hopes to expand with other crops.
 ''The first year was survival, the second expansion, and the third is to grow quality products on the farm and help individuals learn jobs and skills,'' Mr. Zurn said. 
 Mr. Zurn helps assign employees to tasks based on their preference -- a lot of trial and error, he says, because most have never worked on a farm.
 One recent warm weekday, a patch of sunflowers that had just popped up swayed in a breeze, and the employees were busy tending to lettuce, watering flowers and placing seeds into hydroponic growers.
 Gail Gaulin, 47, who has a seizure disorder, was placing tiny seeds that will yield buttercrunch lettuce into a foam tray. Ms. Gaulin, who started working at the farm this summer, said she was excited to be employed and learning something new.
 ''When I had no work, I got so sick and bored,'' she said. ''But now I'm learning a new skill. I like it here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cape Abilities Farm, on Cape Cod, offers employment for people with disabilities like Nick Anderson. He weighed bags of wax beans with help from his supervisor, Trish Goulding.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE & PROTECTED CROPS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (76%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (68%); BRAIN INJURIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



462 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: The Painter and the City: Parallel Tales of Growth

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
If you can't make it in the big city, try a smaller one.
 In 1768 the 18th-century British painter Joseph Wright of Derby (1734-97) exhibited a painting in London, ''An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump,'' a magnificent group-portrait reflecting Enlightenment values. While the work received favorable reviews, it failed to find a buyer; later that year Wright was snubbed by the newly founded Royal Academy.
 On the advice of his friend and fellow artist Peter Perez Burdett, Wright moved north to the burgeoning port center of Liverpool. There he found scores of newly wealthy merchants who wished to cement their status by commissioning artworks. Wright lived and worked there from 1768 to 1771, making valuable connections and developing a reputation as the city's leading portraitist. He was so successful that a rival painter accused him of ''swallowing up all the business.'' In his busiest year, 1769, he produced a portrait every 9 or 10 days. 
 An exhibition in its final weeks at the Yale Center for British Art, ''Joseph Wright of Derby in Liverpool,'' is the first to focus on this period of Wright's career. The 80 works on view tell two stories: that of a young painter finding his niche, and that of a fast-growing northern city asserting itself as a cultural and economic hub.
 The show is part of a two-year celebration of culture in Liverpool (the city marked the 800th anniversary of its charter last year). It was organized by the Yale Center for British Art in conjunction with the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, where it made its debut in November.
 ''Wright in Liverpool'' has a fascinating subplot. As one of Britain's major port cities, Liverpool was a capital of the slave trade. Many of Wright's patrons amassed fortunes by shipping Africans across the Atlantic. The abolitionist movement was beginning to make inroads, however, and Wright made at least one painting that suggests his views on slavery were not necessarily aligned with those of his subjects.
 The first gallery is filled with portraits of socially prominent Liverpudlians. Several have fanciful costumes and gestural affectations that reflect the younger generation's tastes of the day. ''Anna Ashton, Later Mrs. Thomas Case'' is dressed as a shepherdess; ''Fleetwood Hesketh,'' in a jaunty red coat, sits cross-legged in a classical landscape. 
 Wright's older patrons, the focus of the next gallery, have more gravitas. Sarah Clayton, an important land developer, rests her finger on an architectural plan of the Acropolis. Wright was a master of physical as well as intellectual flattery; he softened Clayton's features while depicting her ruffled sleeves and black lace shawl in crisp detail.
 Another remarkable painting shows Richard Gildart, the merchant and sometime mayor of Liverpool, at 95 yet not the least bit feeble-looking. The portrait is flanked by two paintings of ostentatiously accessorized young beauties: Mary Hunt, wearing a velvet ribbon choker, and an unidentified ''Seated Woman'' who cradles one of her pearlescent drop earrings in her left hand.
 Hanging not far from several portraits of slave traders -- John Tarleton, Thomas Staniforth -- is a painting of a prominent abolitionist, Erasmus Darwin, the grandfather of Charles Darwin and a doctor, poet and inventor. He appears flushed, with a red and yellow complexion.
 If the issue of slavery lurks in the background of Wright's portraits, it is unavoidable in ''A Conversation of Girls'' (1770). In this painting three girls -- two white, one black -- surround an urn on a pedestal. The black girl, differentiated by her striped dress and cropped hair as well as her skin tone, kneels before the others with an offering of flowers and jewels. One of her companions, brown-haired, keeps her distance; the other, a redhead, grasps the bouquet and gives the viewer a searching look.
 In a catalog essay, the scholar Sarah Parsons suggests that the painting was Wright's way of stirring discussion on slavery without going so far as to take a position that would threaten his livelihood. Her interpretation seems plausible, but the girls' oddly adult features -- compared with contemporaneous portraits of children in the next gallery -- make them seem more like figures in an allegory.
 A pair of paintings featuring children at play, ''Two Boys Blowing a Bladder by Candlelight'' and ''Two Girls Decorating a Cat by Candlelight,'' contrast the amusements of young men and women. The boys, with scientific purposefulness, inflate their balloon; the mischievous-looking girls dress a horrified-looking cat in doll's clothing.
 The dramatic candlelight of the playtime scenes is typical of the paintings Wright made in Liverpool for exhibition in London. Several show bearded, robed hermit-saint figures in caves or grottoes, a prevalent theme in the 17th-century Dutch paintings and prints that were popular with Liverpool collectors. The importance of classical reproductions in the training of British artists is reinforced by early paintings and drawings depicting Italian sculptures in an academic context.
 Two monumental scenes from 1771, ''A Blacksmith's Shop'' (in two versions) and ''The Alchymist,'' round out the show. Both paintings are exhaustively heroic. The blacksmiths rush to reshoe a horse for a family traveling at night; the alchemist, in his cathedral-like laboratory, kneels in prayer upon his discovery of phosphorus. These paintings also reflect Wright's keen interest in artificial light; in the earliest version of ''A Blacksmith's Shop,'' he sandwiched gold leaf in between layers of paint.
 ''The Alchymist,'' as the catalog suggests, can be seen as a makeover of ''The Air Pump,'' Wright's early commercial failure. It romanticizes ancient science rather than modern experiments, with a figure and setting seemingly transposed from old master paintings. During four years in Liverpool, Wright established his talent for portraiture and honed his methods for conveying nocturnal illumination. He also clearly learned how to market himself.
 ''Joseph Wright of Derby in Liverpool'' continues through Aug. 31 at the Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven; (203) 432-2800, ycba.yale.edu. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph Wright of Derby in Liverpool: ''Anna Ashton, Later Mrs. Thomas Case'' is among the works on view at the Yale Center for British Art in New Have (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL ART GALLERY)(E1)
 ''A Blacksmith's Shop'' (1771) shows workers reshoeing a horse for a family traveling at night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL ART GALLERY)(E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (92%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SLAVERY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



463 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Bank Buys Rest of UnionBanCal

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, one of Japan's largest banks, agreed on Monday to buy the remaining part of UnionBanCal Corporation that it does not already own for about $3.5 billion. 
 The transaction values UnionBanCal, which owns Union Bank of California, one of the 25 largest banks in the United States, at about $10.1 billion.
 Mitsubishi is trying to expand beyond its relatively stagnant home market as Japanese companies seek to broaden their presence abroad and take advantage of a weaker dollar. 
 Mitsubishi raised its bid to $73.50 a share, up from the $63 a share offer it made last week. 
 Its first unsolicited offer, made in April, was for $58 a share. UnionBanCal had rejected Mitsubishi's bids as ''not in the best interest of UnionBanCal's minority stockholders.''
 Some analysts had predicted last week that Mitsubishi would raise its offer to at least $70 a share, adding that UnionBanCal has not spurned its Japanese majority stakeholder outright.
 Shares in UnionBanCal have risen 42 percent over the last month, buoyed by Mitsubishi's offer. They closed at $65.49 a share on Friday and were trading at $73.25 on Monday morning. 
 Mitsubishi has said that its acquisition of UnionBanCal, one of California's largest banks, would be a ''first step'' in a new strategy, one many analysts think involves buying other American institutions. 
 Many banks in the United States have been ravaged by problems with subprime mortgages and other loans, which in turn has battered their stock prices. That has prompted interest from buyers like foreign banks and private equity firms.
 Other Japanese companies, like the insurer Tokio Marine and the drug maker Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, have struck significant international deals this year to tap into now-cheaper expansion opportunities outside the Japanese economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (95%); UNIONBANCAL CORP (94%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (65%); UNION BANK NA (58%); TOKIO MARINE HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (95%); 8306 (TSE) (95%); 4502 (TSE) (65%); 8766 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



464 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Lowe's Profit Falls, but Beats Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Lowe's Companies, the home improvement chain, said Monday its profit fell nearly 8 percent in its most recent quarter but managed to top Wall Street expectations, helped by expense controls and better-than-expected sales, particularly in lawn and garden items. 
 The company said it expected to continue to suffer from a weak housing market and offered a weaker-than-expected outlook for the third quarter. It nonetheless raised its forecast for the full year.
 Lowe's earned $938 million, or 64 cents a share, in the period, down from $1.02 billion, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier. 
 Sales in the period, which ended Aug. 1 and was the second quarter of Lowe's fiscal year, rose 2.4 percent, to $14.5 billion, from $14.17 billion.
 Analysts surveyed by ThomsonReuters expected a smaller profit of 56 cents a share on revenue of $14.1 billion.
 Stock in the company, which is based in Mooresville, N.C., rose 4 cents, to $24.54.
 ''It was a tough environment out there,'' the chief executive, Robert A. Niblock, said.
 Lowe's said seasonal lawn and garden and nursery sales were strong as homeowners restored their lawns and undertook other small outdoor projects to repair damage from last year's drought.
 Mr. Niblock said the company benefited from the issuance of economic stimulus checks.
 Still, Lowe's said sales of bigger-ticket items continued to fall, particularly in regions hurt most by the housing downturn. In the hardest-hit areas, like Florida and California, same-store sales fell by 10 percent or more.
 Over all, the company's comparable store sales fell 5 percent.
 ''All things considered, the quality of the second earnings was good,'' a BMO Capital Markets analyst, Wayne Hood, told investors in a research note.
 For the fiscal year, the company raised its guidance for earnings per share to a range of $1.48 to $1.56, from $1.45 to $1.55. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers at a Lowe's store in Brooklyn Monday. The company raised its forecast for the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (97%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (97%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (97%)

PERSON: ROBERT A NIBLOCK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



465 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS; Investors Can't Shake Mortgage Worries

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply on an otherwise quiet Monday as jitters about the mortgage industry prevailed in low-volume trading, sending shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 17-year lows.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 180 points and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 1.5 percent, as shares of banks and financial services firms took a sharp hit.
The biggest losers were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the beleaguered mortgage giants, which have suffered from widespread concern over their ability to raise capital and continue to guarantee most of the nation's mortgages. 
Analysts said a report over the weekend in Barron's, the financial weekly, reignited investors' worries about the companies. Freddie's stock lost 25 percent, falling to $4.39 a share, and Fannie shares fell 22 percent, to $6.15.
The companies have lost more than 90 percent of their market value in the last year. Their shares plunged in July, when the Treasury Department was forced to devise a contingency plan to bail out the companies in the event of a crisis. Until this summer, Fannie and Freddie had been backed by only an implicit government guarantee.
But the sharp declines came amid very light trading on the major exchanges. With many investors on vacation, big swings on light trading days are rarely harbingers of larger trends in the market.
''It's a very quiet day,'' said Richard Sparks, an equities analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''No economic reports, very few earnings reports and almost none of any consequence. We've had oil trading to break even. The market's really focusing its attention on the worries about Fannie and Freddie.''
Oil prices dipped 90 cents to settle at $112.87 a barrel in New York trading. The dollar declined slightly against the euro, which settled at $1.4697, down from $1.4680.
Interest rates were lower, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note up 7/32, at 101 18/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, at 3.81 percent, down from 3.84 percent.
The Dow finished at 11,479.39, down 1.6 percent. The S.& P. ended the session at 1,278.60, down 19.60 points. The Nasdaq composite index fell 35.54 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,416.98, as technology stocks declined. Shares also fell among businesses that depend on consumer spending. General Motors shares lost 7.3 percent, to $10.36.
''You see wilder swings and more volatility when the volume is so light,'' said Anthony Conroy, the head equity trader at the BNY ConvergEx Group. ''One big order can certainly make a big move in the stock market.''
On Tuesday, the government will release figures on producer prices, a measure of inflation, and a report on groundbreakings for new residential projects.
Producer inflation is expected to have slowed in July, and housing starts are expected to have declined, according to estimates from economists.
The drop in the Dow was the biggest decline in seven trading sessions. At least one analyst predicted that the volatility in the stock market would likely linger for the time being.
''It's a quiet time for substantive news, but it doesn't mean on any given day that you're going to have quiet days,'' said the analyst, Robert Weissenstein, the chief investment officer of Credit Suisse's American private banking division. ''We have emotion and psychology driving the market in both directions.''
Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); EURO (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); CONVERGEX INC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



466 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: A Classy Place to Meet, With a Bonus

BYLINE: By PERRY GARFINKEL

 BODY:
Allan Kassirer makes frequent business trips to Boston -- eight in the last year -- and has back-to-back meetings in each one.
 His company is building a film studio in nearby Weymouth, Mass., and ''every meeting is delicate, critical and on the meter,'' said Mr. Kassirer, a founding partner of the International Studio Group, based in Woodland Hills, Calif. 
 So rather than book conference and meeting rooms or travel around town for business breakfasts, lunches and dinners, he schedules all his meetings at the Taj Boston, in the same two-room suite where he also sleeps. 
 That is cheaper, he said, than paying for meeting space or taking taxis. The best available rate for a suite overlooking the Boston Public Garden is $849 at the Taj (formerly a Ritz Carlton); a small meeting room at the hotel costs $350 for a day.
 Cost is not the only issue, he said. ''For me the bottom line is this: My business is about developing relationships, and relationships lead to deals,'' he said. ''So I consider it well worth the money when people tell me that the upscale setting makes them more inclined to work with me than if we met in an impersonal and stuffy conference room.''
 Mr. Kassirer is not alone in his strategy, which dovetails with two growing business travel trends. One is to find more ways to cut financial corners and save time. The other follows the European and Asian business ethos of building strong personal relationships first, closing deals later.
 ''The emphasis has shifted to cultivating customers one on one,'' said Hal Etkin, chief executive of ME Productions, a corporate event planning company based in Pembroke Park, Fla. ''Where companies used to care about their top 500 clients, now they focus on their top 50.''
 Holding meetings in suites ''is a great alternative for niche marketers especially concerned with protecting their lines and their message from competitors,'' he said.
 Some hotels, including the Taj Boston, either give a suite as a standard upgrade for those who book meeting space or they waive the room rental if the guest guarantees a certain minimum food and beverage expenditure.
 ''Hotels want to put heads in beds, and most suite meetings will run a food and beverage tab, so it's a possible win-win for both the hotel and the business guest,'' said Terri Hardin, editor in chief of MeetingNews, a magazine for professional meeting planners.
 When Ronni Simon, a jewelry designer on Martha's Vineyard, Mass., held a trunk show of her handcrafted work in Manhattan, she booked the penthouse suite at the Alex Hotel on East 45th Street. ''I knew the location alone would add cachet to my work and attract the right people,'' said Ms. Simon, who co-owns the Simon Gallery in Vineyard Haven with her husband, the photographer Peter Simon.
 In addition to the A-list guests she had invited, several retailers and fashion editors from Modern Bride and People Magazine attended her spring show.
 Justifying the expense -- the two-bedroom penthouse with wraparound balcony cost $2,500 for a night -- she said a jeweler's representative would charge about $2,000 a month for showroom space and take 15 to 20 percent of the sales. In one night at the Alex, Ms. Simon said, she sold more than $2,000 in jewelry, but, she said, the connections and impressions she made ''were worth thousands more.'' 
 Andrea Smith, who owns a property management company in her native Hamilton, Bermuda, creates the same upscale ambience and exclusivity in Manhattan, but more economically. She stays in the Creativity Suite at the Embassy Suites Hotel in Battery Park, and meets with up to six clients twice a day. She pays $500 to $700 a night. Last year, she spent 175 nights in the same suite.
 She carefully stages meetings ''to establish a comfort zone for clients,'' she said. She closes the door to her bedroom, rearranges the furniture in the dining and living rooms and sets the mood with CDs she brings of classical music or jazz, turned low. She spreads Stargazer lilies around the room to add color and scent.
 She saves money by buying cheese and crackers and finger foods from the nearby Amish Market on Battery Place, ordering only coffee, tea and soft drinks from the hotel's room service. ''When the mood is right,'' she said, ''I offer my signature drink, a Bermuda rum swizzle. If I set the mood too well, it's hard to get one group out before the next group comes in.''
 For others who choose to bypass room service and supply their own, follow the ''keep it simple'' approach, suggested Alexandra Guarnaschelli, executive chef at Butter restaurant in Greenwich Village. 
 The most elegant choice is a cheese tray, with a combination of soft and hard cheeses, the first several slices already cut, surrounded in some decorative fashion by dried fruits and nuts. That and an assortment of olives, preferably already pitted, is quite enough, Ms. Guarnaschelli said.
 Rea Francis follows those rules when she stays in an apartment suite at the Athenaeum Hotel in London. She said she offered business clients English cloth-wrapped cheddars and breads, pickled onions and salamis, all from Fortnum & Mason, just down Piccadilly from the hotel.
 ''I love to put the right mix of people in a room and let the networking begin,'' said Ms. Francis, the head of RFMedia, a public relations firm in Sydney, Australia, with international clients in tourism, cuisine and the arts. ''Somehow, as the hostess, I get the credit and, eventually, it comes back to me in new business.''
 Then, when all the guests are gone, ''I don't have to go anywhere,'' she said. ''I'm already at my hotel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronni Simon, left, a jewelry designer, held a trunk show last spring at the penthouse suite at the Alex Hotel in Midtown Manhattan. There she mingled with Joan Finkelstein, right, and others.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); JEWELRY (72%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



467 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TOOL KIT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Problems, We've Got Problems

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
From the outside looking in, the answer may seem surprising. When asked earlier this year to name the biggest problem facing their companies, the answer from a group of 3,530 small-business owners nationwide was not finding good employees, competition from overseas or even high taxes.
 Their top concern, according to a survey conducted by the National Federation of Independent Business and Wells Fargo, was the expense of being in business, and the entrepreneurs singled out those factors ''that are difficult to control, such as health insurance, energy and inflation.'' 
 The survey is conducted every four years, and the high cost of health care has been the No. 1 in the last five surveys.
 ''For four years, the economy provided a good, stable foundation for small-business owners to do business, but as it started to take a negative turn over the last several months, they felt the effects of rising costs of doing business,'' said Bruce D. Phillips, senior fellow at the business federation's Research Foundation and co-author of the report with Holly Wade, a policy analyst for the federation. ''As the economic outcome remains uncertain, small-business owners are searching for innovative ways to reduce expenses and increase sales.'' 
 FITNESS HITCH To understand why it is so difficult for a business owner to reduce health care costs, you need look no further than the current issue of Fortune Small Business. 
 Common sense says employees who are healthier and in better shape file fewer claims than those who are not, reducing the cost of their employer's insurance. 
 And so, as the article by Mina Kimes titled ''Lose Weight or Else'' points out, a number of employers are offering incentives for their workers to improve their lifestyles.
 For example, at one company profiled, employees receive ''a $25-a-month discount on health insurance premiums and cash rewards of $160 a year'' in exchange for going to the gym and stopping smoking.
 The problem with that?
 ''Some wellness programs might violate the federal Americans With Disabilities Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act,'' Ms. Kimes writes. ''For example, if an employee is physically unable to participate in a fitness program, is she being punished by having to pay the full insurance premium? And can workers be fired for continuing to smoke?'' 
 WHEN INFLATION IS GOOD The Small Business Administration has increased its revenue-based size standards by nearly 9 percent to account for the inflation that has occurred since 2005. 
 The standards are used to determine if a business is small for its industry and therefore qualifies for government small-business programs. 
 Under the inflation-adjusted size standards, retailers with up to $7 million in annual revenue, for example, will be considered small businesses, according to Mass High Tech: The Journal of New England Technology. For computer systems design services, the new small-business threshold is $25 million in annual revenue. 
 ENERGY VAMPIRES There is one simple if annoying way to reduce your company's energy costs: simply unplug office machines when they are not in use (like when you go home for the day).
 Turning the devices off is not enough because they will continue to function to some degree. (The clock on the microwave in the company kitchen is still on.)
 Good magazine reports that companies could save the following sums annually by unplugging each of these devices:
 Computer: $34.21
 Laptop: $15.90
 Laser Printer: $12.43
 LCD Monitor: $2.51
 LAST CALL It seems like only yesterday, but as Entrepreneur notes, it was 40 years ago that Robert Propst, head of research at the office furniture maker Herman Miller, invented the cubicle that made possible both Scott Adams's ''Dilbert'' comic strip and the cult classic movie ''Office Space.'' 
 Oh, for those of you who were wondering, the magazine writes that by 2006 ''cubicles were estimated to account for the lion's share of office furniture sales -- about $3 billion a year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SMOKING (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); US HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); WRITERS (67%); RETAILERS (65%); SMOKING CESSATION (61%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



468 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: The Business Of Politics, The Politics Of Business

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE WRECKING CREW
How Conservatives Rule
By Thomas Frank
369 pages. Metropolitan Books. $25.
In his incisive 2004 best seller, ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' Thomas Frank argued that red-state America is made up of two groups -- business and blue-collar interests, which ''should be at each other's throats'' -- but that conservative leaders, dedicated to their own big-business agenda, consistently persuade ''citizens who would once have been reliable partisans of the New Deal'' to vote against their economic interests by rallying them around explosive values issues like abortion, flag burning and affirmative action. This, he contended, is ''how conservatives won the heart of America.'' 
In his new book, ''The Wrecking Crew,'' Mr. Frank turns to the question of ''How Conservatives Rule'' once they've gotten into office. Less humorous and far more hectoring than ''Kansas,'' this volume quickly devolves into a highly partisan, Manichaean-minded screed against conservatives and private-sector economics. Instead of using the Jack Abramoff scandal to examine the problems of a political system that empowers lobbyists, special-interest groups and big money players, Mr. Frank tries to turn the scandal into a case study in what he sees as the evils of free-market principles. Instead of carefully dissecting the many failures and missteps of the Bush administration (from its handling of the Iraq war to Hurricane Katrina) and its penchant for favoring political loyalty over expertise, Mr. Frank tries to extrapolate its many stumbles into an object lesson about the wickedness of conservative governments in general.
In the course of the book, Mr. Frank defines conservatism in his own terms as ''an expression of American business'' and ''the perfect entrepreneurial weapon,'' while asserting that ''the conservatism that speaks to us through its actions in Washington is institutionally opposed to those baseline good intentions we learned about in elementary school.'' Its leaders, he contends, ''laugh off the idea of the public interest as airy-fairy nonsense; they caution against bringing top-notch talent into government service; they declare war on public workers. They have made a cult of outsourcing and privatizing, they have wrecked established federal operations because they disagree with them, and they have deliberately piled up an Everest of debt in order to force the government into crisis.''
Anything that stands in the way of Mr. Frank's generalizations is ignored or shrugged off. He gives no credence to conservatives like the economist Bruce Bartlett, a veteran of the Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations, who have criticized the current Bush administration for racking up huge deficits, circumventing the traditional policy-making process and disdaining the advice of experts. He ignores the success of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City in using a business-based approach to managing the city and rebuilding it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attack. And he chastises former President Bill Clinton for having tried to reduce federal bureaucracy and red tape, characterizing these efforts as an attack on the civil service.
As a result, Mr. Frank comes across in these pages as a sort of parody of the liberal right-wingers love to hate -- as someone in love with big government for the sake of big government and opposed to all manner of capitalism and entrepreneurial initiative. At the same time, his strident, impatient tone undermines the possibility of a sober, nonpartisan discussion about matters like the Bush administration's awarding of no-bid Iraq reconstruction contracts, its bungled handling of Hurricane Katrina, its politicization of the Justice Department and its adherence to tax cuts in wartime that have led to huge deficits.
It is Mr. Frank's contention that such budget deficits are part of a deliberate conservative policy to ''defund the left,'' push the country toward more deregulation and privatization and undermine public faith in the government. In fact, while Mr. Frank talks about the right's penchant for conspiracy thinking, he proves himself guilty of the same thing, writing of ''win-win sabotage,'' ''win-win incompetence'' and ''win-win corruption.''
As Mr. Frank sees it, incompetence and corruption are fuel for conservatism: that is, if public officials are inept or venal, people will get fed up with government and turn instead to private enterprise. Urging the reader to remember Watergate, he writes: ''While the immediate consequences of Nixon's outrageous behavior were jail sentences for several conservative Republicans and the election of a bumper crop of liberals to Congress in 1974, Watergate permanently poisoned public attitudes toward government and stirred up the wave that swept Ronald Reagan into office six years later -- and made antigovernment cynicism the default American political sentiment.''
Mr. Frank does not help himself by relying on fuzzy -- and poorly documented -- illustrations of his theories. He writes, for instance, that in 2004 ''a group of the country's largest companies reportedly paid some unnamed K Street firm $1.6 million to secure a tiny modification of the tax code; once the law was rewritten in accordance with their wishes -- and with almost no public notice -- they saved $100 billion in taxes, an amount which you and I will eventually have to replace in the public treasury.'' He adds that if you do the math, ''you will find that the rate of return these companies made on their lobbying investment was some six million percent,'' and concludes that ''these are the wages of conservatism.'' He does not say, however, which companies paid which lobbying firm the money, nor does he describe which modification of the tax code was involved.
Finally, there is something curiously dated about this book. Mr. Frank spends a lot of time reviewing conservatives' attitudes toward South Africa when apartheid was still the official policy of that nation, and while he says little about how the Internet has affected politics and policy making, he expends a lot of energy talking about the right's use of direct mail, as pioneered by Richard Viguerie in the 1960s and '70s.
Mr. Frank asserts that ''democracy cannot work when wealth is distributed as lopsidedly'' as it is today, and that conservative Washington ''has defunded the constituencies of the liberal state while constructing an imbalance that will tilt our politics rightward for years, a plutocracy that will stand regardless of who wins the next few elections.'' ''Dramatic economic inequality of the kind conservatism has engineered,'' he concludes, ''inevitably brings political inequality with it. The rich vote at higher rates than others, they contribute greater amounts to candidates, and, should they choose, they are able to afford today's expensive campaigns for public office.''
In a day when Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, has amassed more than $340 million in campaign contributions, half of which came from donations of $200 or less, and recently became the first major-party candidate to reject public financing, in the belief that his campaign could raise $200 million to $300 million for the general election, such observations seem not only dubious but antiquated as well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (E1)
 Thomas Frank (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) (E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Wrecking Crew, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



469 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Giants Lose Influence, Supply Drops

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil production has begun falling at all of the major Western oil companies, and they are finding it harder than ever to find new prospects even though they are awash in profits and eager to expand. 
 Part of the reason is political. From the Caspian Sea to South America, Western oil companies are being squeezed out of resource-rich provinces. They are being forced to renegotiate contracts on less-favorable terms and are fighting losing battles with assertive state-owned oil companies. 
 And much of their production is in mature regions that are declining, like the North Sea. 
 The reality, experts say, is that the oil giants that once dominated the global market have lost much of their influence -- and with it, their ability to increase supplies. 
 ''This is an industry in crisis,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, the associate director of Rice University's energy program in Houston. ''It's a crisis of leadership, a crisis of strategy and a crisis of what the future looks like for the supermajors,'' a term often applied to the biggest oil companies. ''They are like a deer caught in headlights. They know they have to move, but they can't decide where to go.''
 The sharp retreat in all of the commodities' prices over the last month, about 20 percent, reflects slowing global growth and with it reduced demand for more oil in the short term. But over the next decade, the world will need more oil to satisfy developing Asian economies like China. The oil companies' difficulties suggest that these much-needed future supplies may be hard to come by.
 Oil production has failed to catch up with surging consumption in recent years, a disparity that propelled oil prices to records this year. Despite the recent decline, oil remains above $100 a barrel, unimaginable a few years ago, causing pain throughout the economy, like higher prices at the gas pump and automakers posting sizable losses.
 The scope of the supply problem became more clear in the latest quarter when the five biggest publicly traded oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, said their oil output had declined by a total of 614,000 barrels a day, even as they posted $44 billion in profits. It was the steepest of five consecutive quarters of declines. 
 While that drop might not sound like much in a world that consumes 86 million barrels of oil each day, today's markets are so tight that the slightest shortfalls can push up prices. 
 Along with mature fields, the companies have contracts with producing countries whose governments allocate fewer barrels to oil companies as prices rise.
 ''It has become really, really difficult to grow production,'' said Paul Horsnell, an analyst at Barclays Capital. ''International companies have a portfolio of assets in areas of significant decline and no frontier discoveries to make up for that.'' 
 As a result of the industry's troubles, energy experts do not expect oil supplies to grow this year in countries outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Global demand for oil is expected to expand by 800,000 barrels a day, mostly because of rising demand in China and the Middle East, despite lower consumption in developing countries. 
 This imbalance between supplies and demand will be one thing that OPEC ministers will consider when they meet next month to decide whether or not to increase their production. OPEC has about 2 million barrels a day in untapped capacity that its members control. 
 The new oil order has been emerging for a few decades. 
 As late as the 1970s, Western corporations controlled well over half of the world's oil production. These companies -- Exxon Mobil, BP, Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Total of France and Eni of Italy -- now produce just 13 percent. 
 Today's 10 largest holders of petroleum reserves are state-owned companies, like Russia's Gazprom and Iran's national oil company. 
 Sluggish supplies have prompted a cottage industry of doomsday predictions that the world's oil production has reached a peak. But many energy experts say these ''peak oil'' theories are misplaced. They say the world is not running out of oil -- rather, the companies that know the most about how to produce oil are running out of places to drill.
 ''There is still a lot of oil to develop out there, which is why we don't call this geological peak oil, especially in places like Venezuela, Russia, Iran and Iraq,'' said Arjun Murti, an energy analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''What we have now is geopolitical peak oil.'' 
 Western companies are far better than most national oil companies at finding and extracting petroleum, experts say. They have developed advanced exploration technologies and can muster significant financing to develop new fields. Many of the world's exporting states, however, have spurned their expertise.
 Oil company executives see a straightforward explanation: a trend known as resource nationalism. They contend that they have been shut out of promising regions by a rising assertiveness in the Middle East, in Russia, in South America and elsewhere by governments determined to keep full control of their oil. 
 Even in places where they are allowed to operate, the Western oil companies face growing problems. Countries like Russia, Algeria, Nigeria and Angola have recently sought to renegotiate their contracts with foreign investors to capture a bigger share of the profits. 
 ''The problem with the supply side of the equation is a problem of accessing the resources in the ground so they can be explored and developed,'' Rex W. Tillerson, the chairman of Exxon, said in a recent interview. ''That's a political question where governments have made choices.''
 This sense of being hemmed in helps explain why the Western oil companies want more offshore drilling in the United States. They see it as one of their few options.
 These companies have also tried to diversify. They have turned to natural gas as a profitable source of growth. They are tackling hydrocarbon resources, like deep-water reserves, heavy oil or tar sands. And some companies, like Shell and BP, are investing in renewable fuels.
 Unquestionably, the oil companies could have done more. They failed to invest heavily in exploration after the oil-price collapse of the mid-1980s, which lasted through the 1990s.
 In 1994, the top five oil companies spent 3 percent of their free cash on share buybacks and 15 percent on exploration. By 2007, they were spending 34 percent of their free cash on buybacks -- in effect, propping up their share prices -- and a mere 6 percent on exploration, according to figures compiled by a team led by Ms. Jaffe and Ronald Soligo of Rice University. As a result, some experts warn that supplies will fall short of the demand over the next decade, perhaps sending prices well above today's levels.
 At a recent conference in Madrid, Christophe de Margerie, the chief executive of the French company Total, said the world would be hard-pressed to raise supplies beyond 95 million barrels a day by 2020. Only a few years ago, forecasters expected 120 million barrels a day by 2030, a level many analysts now view as unrealistic. 
 The major companies picked up their capital spending around 2005, although much of the increase has been offset by the soaring cost of development. Exxon, for example, expects to spend about $25 billion annually for the next three years to expand its business, compared with $15 billion a year from 2002 through 2006.
 ''It's amazing the difference from the 1970s, where a lot of money went into exploration, development and production of new resources,'' said Paul Stevens, a senior research fellow at Chatham House, a London policy research organization. ''It is happening a little bit now, but it is not going to be enough.''
 As the power and clout of Western companies erode, the world may become increasingly dependent on government-controlled entities for oil. 
 While some may be up to the task, like Saudi Aramco, others, like Petroleos de Venezuela, suffer from bureaucratic inefficiencies and political interference. 
 ''We are going to depend on the Venezuelan, the Nigerian or the Iranian oil companies for the future of our oil supplies,'' said Bruce Bullock, the director of the energy institute at Southern Methodist University. ''This is a troubling trend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers in an oil field in Venezuela, one of the countries that experts say hold the oil supplies of the future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORGE SILVA/REUTERS) CHART: Big Profits, Bigger Troubles: Top five oil companies: PRODUCTION, PROFITS
SELECTED OUTLAYS (Sources: S.E.C. filings
 James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (96%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CASPIAN SEA (92%); NORTH SEA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



470 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: To Some, Russian Pullout From Georgia Looks Like Hunkering Down

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Reporting was contributed by Clifford J. Levy from Moscow; C .J. Chivers from Gori, Georgia; Steven Lee Myers from Crawford, Tex.; and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
GORI, Georgia -- Russia claimed that it had begun withdrawing its troops from Georgia on Monday, but there was little evidence of it on the ground: Russian soldiers continued digging in to positions along the highway approaching the capital, Tbilisi, showing no sign of pulling back from the severest confrontation between Russia and the West since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Along one major road, four Russian armored personnel carriers rattled a few miles closer to the capital, then plowed through parked police cars blocking the way as Georgian police officers stood by in helpless dismay.
Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said his nation's forces would begin a withdrawal on Monday to comply with a six-point peace accord signed by both sides over the weekend. Mr. Medvedev did not specify the pace or scope of the withdrawal, saying only that troops would withdraw to South Ossetia and a so-called security zone on its periphery. 
In Moscow on Monday, Russia's state news agency, the Russian Information Agency, reported that one of its correspondents saw small convoys of 5 to 10 tanks moving north through the Roki tunnel toward Russia through the day.
But in Washington, Defense Department and military officials said there was no evidence of Russian forces' complying with pledges to pull back.
''We have not seen any significant Russian movement out of Georgia today,'' said one senior Pentagon official.
On the ground in Georgia, about 25 miles outside the capital along the main highway, the four Russian armored personnel carriers passed the Russian checkpoint at Igoeti and headed in the other direction, toward Tbilisi. Soldiers were piled on top, cradling Kalashnikov rifles.
As they drove by, one old man, Koba Gurnashvili, stepped into the road and yelled at them, ''Where do you think you're going!'' One of the soldiers yelled back, ''To Tbilisi.''
But they did not, instead turning up a side road leading to a village near the border with South Ossetia. They stopped at an intersection blocked by Georgian police cars.
The Russian commander climbed off his tank and began arguing with the Georgian police officers. He said he had orders to move up the road; a Georgian officer said he had orders to remain on the road, and asked to call his superiors for guidance. The Russian said, ''You have three minutes to move your cars.''
The two argued for a few minutes more. Then the police officers stepped away from their cars, stone-faced, with their keys. The tank smashed aside the cars and kept going.
At the entrance to the central city of Gori, which has been in Russian hands for days, Russian soldiers sat on armored personnel carriers, smoking or napping in the heat of the afternoon.
Soldiers held the main bridge and the military base, and were running checkpoints on the roads. Convoys were shuttling to Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia. Some soldiers, grubby after days in the field, were swimming naked in rivers.
''They are not moving,'' said Temuri Yakobashvili, Georgia's reintegration minister. He said an attempt at a prisoner exchange on Monday fell through because Georgian officials suspected that Russia was not providing a complete list of prisoners. The Russian military said that the Georgians had introduced unspecified political demands in the prisoner exchange negotiation.
In Crawford, Tex., where President Bush is vacationing, a White House spokesman said that the United States was closely watching whether Russia honored its agreement to withdraw. The spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said it was too soon to say whether the Russians were in compliance.
But he said that any military equipment or forces sent into the region during the fighting needed to be withdrawn under the cease-fire agreement.
''If it rolled in after Aug. 6, it needs to roll out,'' Mr. Johndroe told reporters, referring to the day before the conflict started.
Mr. Medvedev on Monday cautioned that any force used against these soldiers would provoke a response.
''Obviously, if anyone thinks he can kill our citizens, our soldiers and officers who are serving as peacekeepers, and go unpunished, we will never allow this,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''Anyone who tries this will receive a devastating response. For this, we have all the means -- economic and political and military. If anyone had illusions about this some time ago, then they must part with those illusions now.''
He added: ''We do not want to aggravate the situation, but we want to be respected, and our government to be respected, and our people to be respected, and our values.''
France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who brokered the deal, has clarified that it does not allow Russia to block the main highway, or for Russian soldiers to occupy the strategically important central city of Gori, astride the east-west highway; nonetheless, tanks were on the highway on Monday.
On a visit to Tbilisi on Sunday, Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, reiterated this position and said Russian forces should pull back immediately. She cautioned that foreign ministers from NATO countries would be watching the withdrawal on Tuesday at an emergency meeting in Brussels.
The cease-fire accord agreed to by both sides allows Russia to conduct vaguely defined ''security operations'' outside the separatist regions where the conflict began, a point the Russians have cited as a justification for occupying a large swath of Georgian territory.
At the checkpoint nearest Tbilisi, about 25 miles away, Russian soldiers were carrying round river rocks and stacking them in tires to form a barricade across the road. One soldier, shirtless in the heat, took a break and crouched near a pond, splashing the back of his neck with water.
On the Tbilisi-Gori highway, Russian soldiers showed no signs of pulling back. They lounged on their tanks, slept in the shade of trees beside the road or were apparently busy improving their fighting positions.
Outside the village of Natsreti, soldiers used a small, white front loader to pile dirt beside the road in front of a tank; the gun poked just over the top, aimed at the road. Beside the road, soldiers sat in the shade under the awnings of bus stops, eating rations.
The road between Tbilisi and Gori runs 45 miles along the southern rim of an agricultural valley, framed by ridges of the Caucasus Mountains, with many small villages dotting the plain. Along the road were patches of fields and trees immolated by fire started in the fighting.
Outside one village, a number of Russian tanks and trucks were parked in a field on Monday. Through binoculars, more tanks were visible out on the plain, parked behind tree lines and below the crests of small hills.
At their checkpoints, the Russian soldiers cast aside green plastic bags of military rations, including pouches of sugar, applesauce and tea bags all marked with a small red star. From the checkpoint at the entrance to Gori, explosions could be heard reverberating through the city from time to time; their origin was unclear.
Through the day, armored personnel carriers and fuel trucks rolled both ways along the highway, toward Tbilisi and back again, with no apparent purpose.
Meanwhile, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe stressed the need for more international monitors. The organization has proposed increasing the number of monitors up to 100 as soon as possible. Efforts to finalize the arrangements for such a deployment are under way in Vienna.
Correction: August 25, 2008, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about Russia's contention that its troops were withdrawing from Georgia despite evidence to the contrary misidentified a Russian vehicle shown plowing through two Georgian police cars blocking its way in Igoeti. It was an armored personnel carrier, not a tank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Georgian woman in Igoeti, about 25 miles from the capital, Tbilisi, on Monday bemoaned the arrival of Russian troops, who appear oblivious to the criticism.
A Russian tank on Monday plowed through two Georgian police cars blocking its way in Igoeti.(A6)
 Russian soldiers created a barricade near Igoeti on the road to Tbilisi by filling tires with rocks pulled from the river.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) MAP Map details area of Tskhinvali. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



471 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Looks Ahead Without Musharraf

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The immediate reaction in Pakistan's corridors of power and streets to the resignation of President Pervez Musharraf was one of optimism and opportunity. 
 ''His resignation will bring stability hopefully,'' said Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi. He noted that the stock market, which had suffered in recent sessions, had reacted positively. 
 Aitzaz Ahsan, the leader of a lawyers' movement that has been pushing for Mr. Musharraf's ouster and the reinstatement of 57 dismissed judges, said the resignation was a cause ''to rejoice.''
 The governing coalition that engineered the ouster of Mr. Musharraf must now face a range of potential problems, minus the main factor that unified it: opposing him. 
 The two leading coalition partners, Nawaz Sharif and Asif Ali Zardari, have had a fractious relationship. Mr. Sharif is a former prime minister who was deposed by Mr. Musharraf in 1999, while Mr. Zardari is the widower of Benazir Bhutto, a former prime minister who was assassinated in December. 
 Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif will have to reach agreement on the choice for the next president. So far, there are few clues about the contenders. 
 A more immediate challenge is the judiciary, which Mr. Musharraf tried to weaken over its opposition to his rule as both Pakistan's military and civilian leader. Mr. Sharif has insisted on the reinstatement of the 57 supreme and high court judges, including the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, after their dismissal under emergency rule last November. But Mr. Zardari holds that judges appointed during the emergency should also be retained. 
 Beyond that, the coalition will now hold sole responsibility to cope with a deteriorating economy and the continued threat from a resurgent Taliban. Mr. Musharraf lost popular support in Pakistan over efforts to contain the Taliban that were seen as appeasement toward the United States. Now, the coalition will have to find its own solutions. 
 ''I think the political leaders have no excuse now,'' said Rasul Baksh Rais, a political analyst who teaches political studies at Lahore University of Management Sciences. ''They have to address the immediate issues like inflation and the long-term structural problems of Pakistani polity. They can't use Musharraf as an excuse any more.'' 
 Mr. Rais said the departure of Mr. Musharraf was a ''great moment and a great change.''
 ''It is a change about the democratic spirit and transition, and the establishment of constitutionality,'' he said. But he stressed that it would also be a test of the political leadership. ''It is now really a test of their ability and a test of their capacity to deliver,'' Mr. Rais said. 
 Since the general election in February, which brought the coalition to power, Pakistan had been in political limbo, he said, neither fully governed by the Parliament nor by the president, with the two sides in constant conflict. This led to paralysis during which little was achieved and the economy faltered, he said.
 The announcement of plans to impeach Mr. Musharraf this month united a wide spectrum of Pakistani society. After his resignation on Monday, the country looked toward its future.
 ''Now, we can expect more normal politics,'' said Nasim Zehra, a political analyst based in Islamabad. ''Politics are inherently competitive, but the ruling-coalition partners are likely to stay together for a while.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALIBAN (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); JUDGES (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%); NAWAZ SHARIF (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (79%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



472 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Without Musharraf

 BODY:
In the end, President Pervez Musharraf went, if not quietly, with remarkably little strife. Pakistan's top civilian and military leaders, who worked together to orchestrate his long-delayed resignation, must continue that responsible cooperation in the months ahead. Pakistan's plight is far too desperate for any more destructive personal and institutional vendettas. 
 The first challenge is to choose a new civilian president, free from any taint of corruption or complicity with past dictatorships. The presidency must also be stripped of the special dictatorial powers that Mr. Musharraf seized for himself, including the power to suspend civil liberties and rule by decree. 
 Pakistan's newly elected civilian leaders must also move quickly to challenge Taliban and Al Qaeda forces -- who threaten their own country's stability -- and the Pakistani intelligence and military officers who are in league with them. They must address a desperate food and fuel crisis and tackle the deeper problems of poverty, development and corruption that are feeding extremism and anti-American fury. 
 For seven years, President Bush underwrote Mr. Musharraf's dictatorship. Now Washington must provide more effective and realistic support for Pakistan's fragile democracy. Congress should enact legislation sponsored by Senators Joseph Biden and Richard Lugar that provides for substantial increases in economic assistance and tighter monitoring of military aid. American aid can only make a difference if Pakistan's leaders are finally willing to face up to the country's problems. 
 They must acknowledge a dangerous and painful truth: key leaders of Pakistan's military and its Inter-Services Intelligence agency have long collaborated with armed Islamic extremists operating in Afghanistan, the Indian province of Kashmir and Pakistan's own tribally administered regions along the Afghan border. 
 In their eyes, these extremists serve Pakistan's strategic interests. In reality, as The Times has extensively reported, these militants kill American and NATO soldiers, Indian diplomats and Pakistani civilians. 
 It will take personal courage and broad political support to clean up these forces and finally bring them under civilian control. Pakistan's leaders will better their odds if they stop pretending that the fight against terrorism is somehow America's problem and not Pakistan's. They will also have to stop pretending that ad-hoc cease-fires and bribes to insurgent leaders can roll back the Taliban threat. 
 Pakistan needs to send its most elite troops into the troubled frontier areas bordering Afghanistan. It needs to spend its military dollars -- many of which are provided by Washington -- on counterinsurgency weapons, not F-16 fighter jets bought to challenge India. The United States must condition future military aid on more focused and effective Pakistani counterinsurgency efforts and carefully monitor how that aid is spent. 
 Wasteful military spending and political corruption has diverted millions of dollars that should have been invested in primary education, health care and agriculture. Pakistani allies like Saudi Arabia should also help pay for schools, health services and agricultural development and carefully monitor how their aid is spent. 
 For seven years, the Bush administration enabled Mr. Musharraf -- believing that he was the best ally for the fight against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. He never delivered on that promise. And Pakistan's people deeply resent Washington for propping up the dictator.
 With Mr. Musharraf finally out of the picture, it is time to focus American policy on his dangerous and dangerously neglected country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); TERRORISM (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (62%); RELIGION (50%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE BIDEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



473 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: After Years on a Tightrope, Musharraf Disappoints the U.S. and His Own Nation

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Often impetuous and a commando at heart, President Pervez Musharraf pledged to reverse Pakistan's longstanding support of the Taliban after 9/11, bending to tremendous American pressure to become one of Washington's most crucial allies in the campaign against terrorists.
But he largely failed to live up to that commitment, to the increasing frustration of American officials, who invested $12 billion in assistance to Pakistan.
Though Mr. Musharraf forged a personal bond with President Bush that assured American support for him even as his public standing declined precipitously, he produced only mixed results for Washington, increasing suspicions that he was playing a double game.
His pledge to fight terrorism aided the Bush administration in its immediate war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan, making Pakistan an essential supply pipeline for NATO and American troops. 
Later, Mr. Musharraf allowed the United States to work with Pakistani intelligence to arrest senior Qaeda operatives inside Pakistan, and he discreetly gave Washington a green light to strike at Qaeda targets in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas.
Yet for every decision that Mr. Musharraf calculated would help the United States, there were many that did not, leaving policy makers in Washington to wonder which side he was really on.
Today, the Taliban and Al Qaeda, according to the United States intelligence assessments, are more entrenched in Pakistan's tribal areas than they were several years ago, and are exacting an increasing toll on American and NATO forces across the border in Afghanistan.
Mr. Musharraf, though a secular leader who is said to enjoy the occasional tumbler of Scotch, did little to undercut the power of extremist clerics in the nation, or to curb the Taliban and other militant groups, which had long been used by Pakistan's intelligence services to exert influence in India and Afghanistan.
Yet he also displayed a taste for military adventurism and sometimes reckless pursuit of Pakistan's own goals, which were sometimes at odds with American interests.
When he was chief of army staff, he brought Pakistan to the brink of nuclear war with India by deploying troops to a remote part of the Himalayas called Kargil. President Clinton negotiated a cease-fire in 1999, a move that Mr. Musharraf later complained was forced on Pakistan and that amounted, he said, to an unconditional withdrawal.
And he presided over the worst cases of nuclear proliferation in history. A national hero, Abdul Qadeer Khan, who had masterminded the building of his country's atomic bomb, was allowed to transform himself into the largest and most sophisticated exporter of bomb-making designs and equipment. Dr. Khan's illicit network sent designs and nuclear material to Iran, North Korea and Libya.
On the central post-9/11 issue for the United States, the curbing of the power of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, Pakistan's powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency never severed ties with the Islamic extremists.
The rejuvenated Taliban now virtually control Pakistan's tribal region bordering Afghanistan, and are pressing into the rest of the country, threatening the stability of the nuclear-armed nation of 165 million people.
''Musharraf continued to provide cover to the Taliban, but still managed to convince the Americans for many years that it was not a double game,'' said Ahmed Rashid, a Pakistani expert on the Taliban and the author of ''Descent Into Chaos,'' a book that details the relationship between Mr. Musharraf and Washington. ''It was a remarkable feat of balancing on the tightrope.''
As a result, General Musharraf won billions of dollars in American military aid, as well as covert aid. About half the military aid was supposed to be spent on bolstering the counterinsurgency skills of the Pakistani Army. Much of that money never reached the military and was allocated instead to Pakistan's general budget, but the Bush administration chose not to complain, according to a Congressional investigation this year.
Washington finally lost patience last month. In a diplomatic showdown, the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency confronted the country's new prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, with evidence that the Pakistani intelligence service helped plan the July 7 terrorist attack against the Indian Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan.
By then, however, Mr. Musharraf's power was eclipsed, and the Bush administration acknowledged that Mr. Musharraf's usefulness was past.
His popularity among Pakistanis plummeted in the last year. In June, 85 percent of the people wanted him to resign, according to a poll by the International Republican Institute, a nonprofit organization based in Washington. Two years before, a poll by the institute found that the president had an approval rating of 60 percent.
One of the reasons for the collapse of his reputation was a failing economy, battered by capital flight, rapidly falling foreign-exchange reserves and soaring inflation, now at 21 percent. People struggle to pay for flour and fuel. The entire country suffers from prolonged power failures, which, according to the International Monetary Fund, can be attributed largely to the failure of the Musharraf government to build power plants. One of Pakistan's few growth industries is the sale of generators for domestic and industrial use.
General Musharraf began his tenure as president with a wave of support from a public weary of a decade of weak and corrupt civilian government.
In the beginning, he attracted competent people to his cabinet. He promised to tackle the spread of madrasas, the religious schools that had become breeding grounds of Islamic extremists.
But the madrasas remained untouched, mainly because he handed the task to the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which was opposed to the plan, according to Javangir Tareen, a former minister in the Musharraf cabinet.
The president backed some important changes involving the media and the rights of women. Now, dozens of private television stations exist in Pakistan, many of them with rambunctious political talk shows. He also moved to improve the status of women by pushing for the amendment of strict Islamic laws, including those dealing with rape.
''Musharraf tried to construct a modern enlightened state,'' Mr. Tareen said. ''But he proved you cannot do this on the structure of a patronage-driven and police-oriented political machine.''
One of the president's greatest shortcomings, Mr. Tareen said, was his disdain for democratic norms and civilian politicians.
In 2002, General Musharraf ordered a referendum on his legitimacy as president. No opposition candidates were permitted to run, and rallies by opposition political parties were banned.
In March 2007, facing elections later in the year, Mr. Musharraf fired the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, apparently out of fear that the judiciary might undermine his re-election.
A tidal wave of support for Justice Chaudhry from lawyers across the country turned into a vibrant anti-Musharraf campaign.
By November, the general felt trapped, declared a state of emergency and fired 60 judges. He relinquished his position as head of the army last November, but by the time he lifted the state of emergency in December, he was seen as an unpopular dictator, and his political opponents, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, had returned to Pakistan to contest elections.
After Ms. Bhutto was assassinated, her husband, Asif Ali Zardari, took the reins of the Pakistan People's Party. In February elections, the two opposition parties swept into power, forming an uneasy coalition.
In the end, Mr. Musharraf was unable to strike a balance between the Americans and the religious extremists, and Pakistan is left in a more precarious position as a result, Mr. Rashid, the writer, said.
Last year, there were 56 suicide attacks in Pakistan, many of them in urban areas, that were attributed to the Taliban ensconced in the distant tribal areas. The Taliban are now pouring into more settled regions, arousing great anxiety in a demoralized army often loath to fight an insurgency, and posing a serious threat to Pakistan itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: How Musharraf Consolidated His Power --: Oct. 1999 Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the chief of Pakistan's army, ousts Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in a bloodless coup, hours after Mr. Sharif, left, tried to dismiss him. June 2001 Appoints himself president. Says he will return the country to civilian rule after elections in Oct. 2002. Sept. Abandons the Taliban days after the 9/11 attacks and pledges ''full support'' for American military operations in Afghanistan. Jan. 2002 Announces a broad ban on militant groups accused of fomenting violence in Indian-held Kashmir, as well as at home. Mid-2002 Wins a controversial referendum that extends his rule for five more years. Unilaterally redraws Pakistan's Constitution, imposing 29 amendments that expand his powers. Bars the return to Pakistan of his two exiled predecessors, Mr. Sharif and Benazir Bhutto, left, who lead Pakistan's two largest parties. Dec. 2004 Says he will not step down as army chief.
 -- Before Facing Political Upheaval Last Year: Mar. 2007 Fires the chief justice of Pakistan's Supreme Court, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, left, apparently out of fear that the judiciary might undermine his re-election. Protests by lawyers across the country turn into a virulent anti-Musharraf campaign. Mr. Chaudhry is reinstated by the court two months later. Oct. 4, 2007 Announces an accord that includes amnesty for Ms. Bhutto, clearing the way for her return and Mr. Musharraf's run for re-election as president. Oct. 6 Wins the presidential election. His victory is incomplete because of an opposition boycott and pending court hearings to decide his eligibility to run for election in uniform. -- Oct. 18 Ms. Bhutto returns from exile. Nov. 3 Declares a state of emergency suspending Pakistan's Constitution and fires 60 judges, including Chief Justice Chaudhry. -- Nov. 25 Mr. Sharif returns from exile. Nov. 29 Sworn in as a civilian president, a day after he resigned as army chief, leaving him with vastly reduced powers. -- Dec. 27 Ms. Bhutto is assassinated. Feb. 2008 Mr. Musharraf's party suffers a crushing defeat in the parliamentary elections. A new government is formed by Mr. Sharif and Ms. Bhutto's husband, Asif Ali Zardari. Aug. 18 Under threat of impeachment, announces his resignation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (93%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); NAWAZ SHARIF (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%); HIMALAYAS (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



474 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words

 BODY:
A LOSS OF INFLUENCE Oil production by the major Western oil companies is declining as they lose their influence and along with it, their ability to increase supplies. 
 TIME'S UP Electronic Arts has withdrawn its $2 billion offer to buy rival Take-Two Interactive, ending its hostile takeover bid for the maker of the popular Grand Theft Auto video game. E.A. said it did not believe it could absorb the company in time for the critical holiday selling season. [C1.] 
 ACCIDENTAL FLAW As a result of a flaw on its Web site, the Princeton Review, the test preparation company, accidentally published the personal data and standardized test scores of thousands of students and some of its own internal communications. [C1.] 
 FIOS, THUS FAR FiOS, Verizon's four-year-old fiber optic Internet, voice and video service, is catching on with customers and is earning Wall Street's begrudging respect. [C1.]
 TAX FRAUD CHARGES The founder of the Girls Gone Wild franchise, Joe Francis, faces trial in Los Angeles on federal charges of corporate tax fraud in a case that he claims stems from his accountant's efforts to collect a reward for turning in a tax evader. [C1.]
 INVITING A BUYERLehman Brothers has sent letters to a number of private equity firms to gauge interest in acquiring all or part of its investment management division. [C1.]
 OBAMA BOOK ORDER CUT Barnes & Noble has trimmed its order for 10,000 copies of the pro-Obama book, ''Obama's Challenge,'' by Robert Kuttner, after the book's publisher said the initial sales would be by a rival only. [C7.]
 STRONGER LABEL IS SOUGHT Federal regulators are working on a stronger label for Byetta, a widely used diabetes drug, after deaths continue to be reported. [C5.]
 LOWE'S TOPS EXPECTATIONS Profit at the Lowe's Companies, the home improvement chain, declined but nevertheless beat Wall Street's expectations. [C5.] 
 AN IMPROVING T.S.A. While still not perfect, the experience of dealing with the Transportation Security Administration has improved the last few years under Kip Hawley, its administrator. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.]
 MONEY-SAVING ROOM Some business travelers are renting upscale suites where they can sleep, hold meetings and save time and money on meeting rooms and cab fare. [C6.]
 A CAUTIONARY TALE Ronald G. Insana, below, the former CNBC anchorman, has given up his job as an investment manager for a fund of hedge funds in a tale that is both instructive and cautionary. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.] 
 NYMEX SALE APPROVEDNymex Holdings shareholders have voted to approve the CME Group's $8.3 billion takeover offer. [C9.]
 GOING PUBLIC Deutsche Bahn, the giant German railroad, is going ahead with an initial public offering in what could be the last big privatization of a former state monopoly in Europe's largest economy. [C7.]
 FOR FEMALE VIEWERS The many advertisements during the Olympics telecasts meant for women reflect the high number of them watching the games, an anomaly in TV sports. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (91%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (86%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); BOOK PUBLISHING (75%); ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); HOME CENTERS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); PRIVATIZATION (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); PUBLISHING (56%); WEB SITES (55%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (82%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (63%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (58%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BAHN AG (52%); CME GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (82%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (58%); EA (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); CME (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (82%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (82%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); SIC4013 RAILROAD SWITCHING & TERMINAL ESTABLISHMENTS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



475 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 19, 2008

 BODY:
International
U.S. DECLINES TO ACCELERATE
Georgia's Entrance Into NATO
There is to be no push for Georgia's admission into NATO, said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a development that shows the United States and its European allies' lack of stomach for a direct confrontation with Russia. Speaking at an emergency meeting of NATO, Ms. Rice and other officials reiterated their desire to see Georgia and Ukraine granted admission, but said their meeting itself was demonstration enough of their intentions that NATO would stand up to Moscow. Page A10
CHINA DETAINS WOULD-BE PROTESTOR
When China announced three locations for protests in Beijing during the Olympic Games, Gao Chuancai -- who had protested previously and received serious beatings in return -- applied as directed. After an hour-long interview he was let go and told to return in few days. Hours after the interview, he was detained by the police and has not been heard from since. Others have been detained after applying to protest at sanctioned spots, and 10 days into the games China has yet to allow a single protest to take place. Page A6 
U.S. SAYS IRAN MISSILE UNSUCCESSFUL
A day after Iran announced that a new rocket had successfully launched a satellite, it promised to help other Muslim nations obtain the same technology. United States officials said that the declaration was inflated. The officials, speaking anonymously, said that the missile eventually went off course, destroying itself, but that it was still a worrisome development, since a missile that can launch a satellite could also launch a nuclear warhead. Page A11
REBELS HIT CIVILIANS IN PHILIPPINES
The Mindanao region of the Philippines suffered further strife, with at least 28 civilians dead, as Islamists overran several towns. The raids occured as people returned to their homes after clashes between rebels and government troops last week. President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo ordered the military and police to defend Philippine territory, in a radio address following the attacks. Page A9
12 KILLED DURING AFGHAN HOLIDAY
A suicide bomber drove a car into the gates of the American military base in Kabul, Afghanistan, killing 12 workers and wounding 22 others, as the country was celebrating its Independence Day, Afghan officials said. The attack failed to penetrate the base or harm any United States military personnel. Two top American generals in Afghanistan later warned of a heightened security threat to civilian, military and government targets during the independence celebration. Page A7
A Nation's Fears in Caricature A9
National
ETHICS THICKET FOR CONVENTIONS
Crimps Event Plans
Much of the pomp and partying that is traditionally part of national party conventions will be gone this year: corporations and convention party planners are rushing to comply with sweeping ethics rules that prohibit lobbyists from paying for gifts, including meals and music, for members of Congress and their staffs. PAGE A14
MORE WOMEN ARE CHILDLESS
According to a new Census Bureau report, women are waiting longer to have children, and more women than ever are opting not to have children at all. Twenty percent of women ages 40 to 44 have no children, double the level of 30 years ago, the report said; and women in that age bracket who do have children have fewer than ever. PAGE A12
AND THE NO. 2 IS ...
Senator Barack Obama has all but settled on his choice for a running mate, but he is not saying who that is -- yet. His campaign set an elaborate rollout plan for his decision, beginning with an early morning alert to supporters, perhaps as soon as Wednesday, aides said. PAGE A12
MCCAIN BLASTS OBAMA ON IRAQ VOTE
Senator John McCain made a blistering attack on Senator Barack Obama's national security credentials in a speech to a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention. Mr. McCain criticized what he called Mr. Obama's ''shifting positions'' on the troop reinforcements in Iraq, and said that when his rival voted against financing the troops in a single vote in 2007, he had tried to ''legislate'' failure. PAGE A14
REMEMBERING ISAAC HAYES
There were Hollywood Scientologists and Memphis music people at the tribute to Isaac Hayes at a suburban megachurch outside Memphis. But there were also thousands of regular people who poured into the church's sanctuary to remember Mr. Hayes, who was deeply involved in the workaday life of his hometown. PAGE A12
Learning Job Skills on the Farm A16
Obituaries
DORIVAL CAYMMI, 94
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, mourned Mr. Caymmi as ''one of the founders of Brazilian popular music.'' He wrote Carmen Miranda's first hit song and helped lay the foundations of bossa nova. His songs evoked the life and dreams of working-class people, particularly the fishermen of Bahia, his native state. PAGE C12
New York Report
WHERE THE STREETS TEEM
And the Stores Are Chilled
There are a lot of things that register as strange to the estimated 9 million foreign tourists who visit New York City each year. A woman from Greece wondered why, given the traffic congestion, there were not more motorcyclists. Another man wondered what was with all the flags. And what was up with all the air-conditioning? ''It's everywhere, even in the subway,'' a German tourist said. ''In Germany there's only air-conditioning in the airport.'' PAGE C11
THE CASE OF THE TWO-HEADED TURTLE
There are currently no suspects in the case of a missing two-headed turtle stolen from an animal shelter and pet supply store in Brooklyn. The unnamed reptile -- the store owner avoids naming animals, lest he get too attached to them -- had already defied the odds, as two-headed turtles usually do not live very long. ''I guess this qualifies as a missing turtle report,'' a police spokesman said. ''But I don't think we're out there looking for it.'' PAGE C11
Business
AFTER INITIAL DOUBTS,
Verizon's Gambit Pays Off
Skeptics were not sold when Verizon Communications announced four years ago an ambitious and expensive plan to replace traditional copper telephone wires with fiber optic cables. But as Verizon begins to roll out FiOS in its hometown, New York City, the company argues that the service -- which delivers ultra-fast Internet service, high-definition video channels and old-fashioned telephone service -- is proving to be more successful than it initially projected. PAGE C1
PULLING PLUG ON GAMING TAKEOVER
Electronic Arts withdrew its $2 billion tender offer to purchase its rival Take-Two Interactive, the creators of the enormously successful Grand Theft Auto video game franchise. Electronic Arts ended its months-long, hostile takeover attempt by saying it wouldn't be able to subsume Take-Two's business in time for the critical holiday season. (Cue the ''Game Over'' sound from Ms. Pacman.) PAGE C1
NOT AS EASY AS IT LOOKS
Ronald G. Insana, late of CNBC, left broadcasting to go into the world of hedge funds, where it seemed investors and hedge fund managers were making money hand over fist. Were it only so simple. Two weeks ago, Mr. Insana announced that he was closing his venture, buffeted by a slumping market and a tough capital-raising market. This after writing a book titled ''Trendwatching: Don't be Fooled by the Next Investment Fad, Mania, or Bubble.'' Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE C1
ARTS
THE BUSINESS OF POLITICS,
The Politics of Business
In his new book, ''The Wrecking Crew,'' Thomas Frank turns to the question of ''How Conservatives Rule'' once they've gotten into office. Less humorous and far more hectoring than his incisive 2004 best seller, ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' this volume quickly devolves into a highly partisan, Manichaean-minded screed against conservatives and private-sector economics, Michiko Kakutani writes. Anything that stands in the way of Mr. Frank's generalizations is ignored or shrugged off. PAGE B1
A PAINTER'S LIVERPOOL
An exhibition in its final weeks at the Yale Center for British Art, ''Joseph Wright of Derby in Liverpool,'' is the first to focus on the period of Wright's career during which he lived in Liverpool, from 1768 to 1771. The 80 works on view tell two stories: that of a young painter finding his niche, and that of a fast-growing northern city asserting itself as a cultural and economic hub. A review by Karen Rosenberg. PAGE B1
LIAISONS DANGEREUSES
If the televised Olympics are too sanitary and the hole-in-the-wall strip clubs too sleazy for your tastes, then perhaps you'll find voyeuristic contentment in the between ground occupied by ''Desir,'' the literally high-flying exercise in body bending that's playing in a mirrored tent at the South Street Seaport. The latest offering from Spiegelworld, the show is 80 minutes of floor-to-ceiling gymnastics, executed by an exceedingly supple cast of more than a dozen who wordlessly act out ''La Ronde''-style series of liaisons. PAGE B1
Science Times
SHIFTING FOCUS OF AIDS FIGHT
To the Long Haul
The 16th International AIDS Conference in Toronto last year had a circus feel to it, with Bill Gates and Bill Clinton drawing huge crowds and plenty of optimism for H.I.V./AIDS research. But this year's session -- Mr. Clinton was in attendance, but Mr. Gates was not -- was decidedly more somber, with little progress in vaccinations or treatments coming to fruition, and the focus again shifting to the long haul. PAGE D1
WHAT THE SCALE CAN'T TELL YOU
More medical research is suggesting that weight may no longer be a reliable indicator of a person's overall health. A report in The Archives of Internal Medicine compared weight and cardiovascular risk factors among a sample of more than 5,400 adults and found that one out of four slim people -- those who fall into the ''healthy'' weight range -- actually has at least two cardiovascular risk factors typically associated with obesity. PAGE D5
Editorial
PAKISTAN WITHOUT MUSHARRAF
In the end, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan went with remarkably little strife. Pakistan's top civilian and military leaders, who worked together to orchestrate his long-delayed resignation, must continue that responsible cooperation in the months ahead. Pakistan's plight is far too desperate for any more destructive personal and institutional vendettas. Page A18
WHALES, SONAR AND THE COURTS
The Navy and conservation groups have reached a settlement that allows the service to test its low-frequency sonar systems while protecting marine life. Unfortunately, the Bush administration continues to take an unreasonable position in another sonar case. Page A18
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS
Senator John McCain and his advisers have been compelled to adjust their strategy, and now they are running a much more conventional race. But as they have done so, Mr. McCain's political prospects have soared. Page A19
BOB HERBERT
Theodore Roosevelt may be John McCain's hero, but there is very little danger that their world views will coincide. Page A19
A WAR ON AID GROUPS
On Aug. 19, 2003, terrorists destroyed the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. In an Op-Ed article, Samantha Power writes that five years later, international aid workers are more in danger than ever. Page A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MILITARY BASES (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); ETHICS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); CHINA (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



476 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Video: The Bombing of Kirkuk
 A video clip of a suicide bombing in the center of Kirkuk, a firsthand account of the aftermath and archival reporting on Kirkuk from 1921 to 1975. 
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: THE FATE OF KIRKUK
 The ethnic riots and chaos that followed a July suicide bombing in the Iraqi city illustrate the tinderbox that sits atop a sea of oil. 
 nytimes.com/world
 INTERACTIVE: A PRESIDENCY ENDS
 An interactive timeline looks at President Pervez Musharraf's tenure as Pakistan's president. Mr. Musharraf's resignation ended nine years as the head of one of the United States' most important allies in the campaign against terrorism.
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: CROWDS CELEBRATE AS MUSHARRAF LEAVES
 Crowds took to the streets in Pakistan to celebrate President Musharraf's resignation, which he announced under pressure over impending impeachment charges.
 nytimes.com/world
 AUDIO: BACK STORY ON RESIGNATION
 Jane Perlez discusses the resignation of Pakistan's president and its impact on the Bush administration's relations with the critical regional player.
 nytimes.com/world
 VIDEO: TO BUILD A REEF
 Photographs show the U.S.S. Oriskany, which is part of a program to use decommissioned vessels to create artificial reefs. It was sunk 24 miles off the coast of Pensacola, Fla. The 888-foot ship took 37 minutes to sink.
 nytimes.com/science
 SLIDESHOW: A PAINTER AND A CITY
 A selection of the 18th-century painter Joseph Wright's works, which are currently on exhibit at Yale. The 80 works on view tell two stories: that of a young painter finding his niche, and that of a fast-growing northern city asserting itself as a cultural and economic hub. 
 nytimes.com/design
 QUESTIONS ON CHARTER SCHOOLS
 Starting today, James D. Merriman IV, the chief executive of the New York City Center for Charter School Excellence, will be answering readers' questions about charter schools in New York City.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 VIDEO: A HURDLER'S PAIN
 An injury forced Liu Xiang to withdraw from competition. Jimmy Wang gets reactions from the streets of Beijing. 
 nytimes.com/olympics
 Opinion
 DOG DAYS
 The artist Jeff Scher's animated short film about the last, lazy, hot days of summer, with a canine theme.
 nytimes.com/scher

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN LOWY/VII NETWORK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (87%); ANIMATION (79%); FILM (79%); RIOTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PAINTING (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); CHRONOLOGIES (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); IMPEACHMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (67%); EXHIBITIONS (66%); OLYMPICS (65%); ANIMATED FILMS (50%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HUNAN, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



477 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE STUMP; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes On Women's Issues

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
As Senator John McCain was acidly questioning Senator Barack Obama's judgment on matters of war and peace on Monday at a veterans' convention in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Obama was speaking soothingly to a couple of dozen women in a public library in Albuquerque. 
 The theme of the Obama round table was workplace discrimination against women and the family strains on working women.
 He took a few shots at his rival, noting that Mr. McCain the other night had defined ''rich'' as someone making $5 million a year. He also said Mr. McCain wanted to continue President Bush's policies on the economy, education, taxes and Iraq.
 Addressing women's issues, Mr. Obama said: ''When I hear women are being treated unfairly in the workplace, where there's injustice, and there's not the basic principle of equal pay for equal work, I get mad. I get frustrated.''
 A few moments later, he referred to his young daughters and said he hoped that by the time they were grown, discrimination against women in the workplace would have ended.
 ''My daughters -- I don't want them to ever confront a situation where they are disadvantaged because of their gender,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The thought of it makes my blood boil. That's what we're fighting for.'' JOHN M. BRODER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); EQUAL PAY (72%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008



478 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Results on Paying City Students to Pass Tests

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN; Robert Gebeloff and Winnie Hu contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Offered up to $1,000 for scoring well on Advanced Placement exams, students at 31 New York City high schools took 345 more of the tests this year than last. But the number who passed declined slightly, raising questions about the effectiveness of increasingly popular pay-for-performance programs in schools here and across the country.
 Students involved in the program, financed with $2 million in private donations and aimed at closing a racial gap in Advanced Placement results, posted more 5's, the highest possible score. That rise, however, was overshadowed by a decline in the number of 4's and 3's. Three is the minimum passing score. 
 The effort to reward city students for passing Advanced Placement tests is part of a growing trend nationally and internationally, and one of several new programs in New York, to experiment with using financial incentives to lift attendance and achievement. 
 The results, scheduled to be formally announced on Wednesday, are likely to be closely examined by both enthusiasts who herald such programs as groundbreaking innovation and detractors who deride them as short-sighted bribes that threaten broader educational progress.
 ''I'm just dumbfounded that they can regard this as an achievement or as a great improvement or as something worth spending the money on,'' said Sol Stern, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute, who had expressed cautious support for the Advanced Placement program when it was announced last fall. ''I'm surprised that that kind of money, that kind of incentives, doesn't produce better results. It sort of undercuts the argument that the problem is the question of motivation.''
 The organizers and underwriters of the program said they were encouraged by the increase in test-takers and student survey results. They said they never expected to see significant change in the first year, noting that the program was announced after the school year was under way and students had signed up for Advanced Placement classes.
 ''We've gotten off the ground, and we never thought that this was going to be a quick-fix incentive solution,'' said Edward Rodriguez, executive director of the program, known as Reach, for Rewarding Achievement. ''We've learned a great deal about our schools and are figuring out other ways we can support them.''
 While cash-incentive programs are expanding rapidly in schools nationwide -- most of them financed by philanthropists -- measurable evidence of their effectiveness is scarce. Perhaps the largest such program is starting this fall. 
 In it, corporations and foundations have pledged $79 million over five years to pay 13,000 students and their teachers in 67 high schools in six states $100 for each passing score on the math, science or English Advanced Placement test.
 The New York effort is modeled on a Texas program that an economist at Cornell found to be associated with a rise in SAT scores and college enrollments.
 In Tucson, Ariz., Superintendent Vicki Balentine said that after the first year of a three-year plan to give 75 sophomores $100 per month for maintaining perfect attendance and at least a C minus average, those offered the money seemed to show up more for classes and school activities than a control group. 
 In Coshocton, Ohio, Superintendent David Hire said he saw ''significant improvement'' over the past four years as the schools gave students who passed state achievement tests ''Coshocton bucks,'' gift certificates that can be redeemed at local stores. 
 ''I think it helps the kids take the test more seriously,'' Dr. Hire said of the program, which has distributed $62,000 of the coupons. ''It gives them something to look forward to, and it helps to keep them focused.''
 In New York, in addition to the privately run Advanced Placement program, Roland G. Fryer, a Harvard economist who is serving as the Department of Education's chief equality officer, is leading the school system's effort to give students prizes of up to $50 per test for taking and passing other standardized tests. 
 Officials said on Tuesday that test scores of the nearly 6,000 students who participated in Dr. Fryer's program, which distributed $1.1 million in private donations, would be released in October.
 Dr. Fryer said that the A.P. test incentive program shed no light on the efficacy of a separate one he is managing that rewards middle school students with cellphone minutes for good behavior, attendance and homework along with test scores. 
 ''I crave for scientific evidence that things are working,'' Dr. Fryer said, adding that while he believed that incentive programs held promise, ''the jury is still out.''
 ''I don't think we should make too much of the actual numbers at this point, but I'm encouraged that they're trying something,'' he said of the Advanced Placement program. ''I actually don't care if incentives are the answer; I just care about getting an answer. If incentives aren't the answer, I guarantee you I will drop them like a bad habit.'' 
 Mr. Rodriguez, of Rewarding Achievement, said the Advanced Placement program would be tweaked for next year, and that the rewards for 4's and 3's would most likely be lowered to $500 and $250 (scores of 5 will still net $1,000). He said the money would be better spent to add teacher training sessions and expand a three-day crash course ahead of the exams.
 Whitney Tilson, who helped create the incentive program and is on the board of the Council of Urban Professionals, which runs it, and the Pershing Square Foundation, its major underwriter, said that he would be ''very, very disappointed'' if next year's Advanced Placement scores were flat. But he said he hoped more students would sign up as word spread that the $1,000 promise was for real. 
 The 31 participating schools include six Roman Catholic and 25 public schools, selected based on criteria including minority enrollment and prior student performance on A.P. exams.
 Performance varied widely. Students at Flushing High School, for example, took 69 more exams this year than last, and passed 44 more, but students at the High School for Arts and Business in Queens passed 10 fewer exams in 2008 than in 2007. Program organizers attributed some lower scores to the departure of veteran teachers in those subjects.
 In addition to the payments to students, the program offers bonuses to principals and assistant principals and donations to schools where test scores improve. This year, $960,000 was distributed to students.
 In a written statement, the city Education Department said that officials were still evaluating the results but that ''the success of an innovative program like Reach, which insists that every student can succeed, has never been more imperative.'' 
 At the 31 schools, the number of exams taken rose to 4,620 from 4,275. The number of tests passed fell to 1,476 from 1,481. Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, a Washington research group that works on closing the racial achievement gap, said that having five fewer passing A.P. grades was ''not exactly a stellar result'' but that it was too early to judge the effort.
 ''There's some part of all of us that gets a little queasy at this sort of buying stuff,'' she said. ''That said, the problem of underperformance, especially among poor and minority kids, is so serious and has been with us for so long that I'm not begrudging anybody who has good will here from trying something so we can hopefully learn something from it.'' 
 ''Frankly, rich kids get paid for high grades all the time and for high test scores by their parents,'' Ms. Haycock added. ''So this isn't so different.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Wednesday about the mixed results of an incentive program that paid students at 31 New York City high schools $500 to $1,000 for passing Advanced Placement exams referred imprecisely at several points to the program. It is the cash incentive program, known as Reach, which stands for Rewarding Achievement, that is being adjusted for next year to reduce some payouts and add training sessions -- not the broader Advanced Placement program of courses and tests administered by the College Board.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Test Dollars: More students took Advanced Placement tests in 2008 than in 2007 at 31 city schools that offered incentives of up to $1,000 for high scores. But five fewer students passed.(Source: Rewarding Achievement Program) Scores of students on a scale of 1 to 5. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); MERIT PAY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); CHARITIES (76%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



479 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words

 BODY:
SHARP RISE IN PRICES The Labor Department reported that wholesale prices shot up 1.2 percent in July, pushed higher by rising costs for energy, food and other products. 
 NEW DESIGN Palm will announce the debut of the Treo Pro, a smartphone intended primarily for business customers, as the executive chairman, Jon Rubinstein, seeks to resuscitate a company that has struggled in recent years. [C1.] 
 INTERVENTION EXPECTED Stock prices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac fell again, leading some investors to believe that a government bailout was inevitable. [C1.]
 RETRENCHING Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, reported a 24 percent decline in quarterly profit, as consumers shied away from costly discretionary items. [C1.]
 LONG-TERM GOALS Top Chrysler executives say they are determined to fix the company, and its new owner, Cerberus Capital Management, says they will get the chance. [C1.]
 DEPARTURE Louis V. Gerstner Jr. is stepping down as chairman of the Carlyle Group after five years of overseeing the private equity firm's expansion. [C3.]
 DNA TESTING The state of California granted licenses to two businesses that offer genetic testing directly to consumers. [C3.]
 RETAILERS STRUGGLE The slumping economy took its toll on retailers as the luxury chain Saks posted a loss that was larger than expected and the discounter Target reported a lower profit. [C3.]
 FRAUD RESTITUTION A former hedge fund manager was ordered to return more than $279 million and pay a $12 million civil penalty for defrauding clients. [C3.]
 DRUG LAWSUIT The family of a teenager with a rare form of muscular dystrophy is asking a judge to allow the patient access to an experimental drug. [C3.]
 NEW PRICING SCHEME In an attempt to better compete with Amazon.com, eBay will alter its fee structure to emphasize fixed-price sales over auctions. [C5.]
 NEW NEIGHBORS A reshuffling of retailers along the prime Fifth Avenue shopping district is allowing mass-market retailers to gradually slip into the fancy retailing club. [C6.]
 LESS LANDSCAPING Building owners are opting for fewer plants in their lobbies, and tenants in office buildings are using flora sparingly. [C6.]
 HAPPINESS IS A WARM PUPPY The creator of cuteoverload.com is finding success with a Web site and a new page-a-day desk calendar that feature pictures of cuddly kitties and sad-eyed puppies. Advertising. [C4.]
 EARNINGS CLIMB Hewlett-Packard's third-quarter profit jumped 14 percent, beating Wall Street's expectations, as it was helped by strong laptop sales and a robust presence overseas. [C7.]
 AVIATION ACQUISITION General Dynamics said it would buy the Swiss business-aircraft service company Jet Aviation for $2.25 billion in cash to expand its Gulfstream jet business globally. [C7.]
 MSNBC SHAKE-UP MSNBC is altering its prime-time programming lineup, removing the longtime host Dan Abrams from his 9 p.m. program and replacing him with Rachel Maddow. [E1.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); HOME CENTERS (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); DNA (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (68%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); GENETIC DISEASES (67%); DNA TESTING (67%); GENETIC SCREENING (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (66%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (66%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (64%); DOGS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); GD (NYSE) (51%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



480 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: It May Be a Jungle Out There, But No Longer in the Lobby

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
For decades, it has been practically an unwritten rule of office building design that a high-end building should have lushly landscaped lobbies or atriums. The forest's worth of magnolia, pear and eucalyptus placed inside the Ford Foundation building in 1967 perhaps kicked off the trend, which culminated in the late 1980s when the World Financial Center decorated its Winter Garden with rows of soaring palms.
 Today, though, tastes seem to be undergoing a change, with owners seeking a leaner less-is-more look for their lobbies where the only touches of greenery are often a few cut flowers in a security desk vase.
 Plants are also less common now in upstairs hallways and offices, according to landlords, property managers, brokers and landscapers, as tenants take less space than in decades past. With the smaller footprints, they tend to use flora sparingly. 
 While more buildings are planting their roofs with grass, trees or shrubs, the interior landscaping industry finds itself in a difficult place, professionals say. 
 ''We were very lucky before, because everybody wanted plants, and lots of them,'' said John Mini, a landscaper in Rockland County since 1973. His work included rebuilding the Winter Garden, where 16 palms had to be replaced after the Sept. 11 attacks. Twenty years ago, he estimates, 80 percent of all New York City office building lobbies were landscaped; today, he says, only about half are. ''It's all changing, and unless we keep up, we will be in trouble,'' he said. 
 Some notable new high-rises have opted for plantless lobbies. These include the IAC Building, designed by Frank Gehry in West Chelsea; and One Bryant Park, the Bank of America tower in Midtown developed by the Durst Organization, where tenants already occupy the lower half of the building. 
 Next year One Bryant Park will add an urban garden room at the southwest corner of the Avenue of the Americas and 43rd Street, which will feature an enclosed public space with plantings and benches accessible from the sidewalk, but separated from the lobby by a wall, according to the Durst Organization.
 Retrofitted buildings also often tend to be less leafy, like 1330 Avenue of the Americas, a 40-story glass-and-steel high-rise at West 54th Street owned by the Macklowe Organization that is opening this week after a $30 million nine-month renovation.
 Within the lobby, gone are the '' '80s-style planters with funky curves,'' the focal point has become blue chairs and a glass table atop a new terrazzo floor, said Paul Amrich, the C. B. Richard Ellis broker who is marketing the property. 
 ''Cluttering a lobby with plants doesn't work well from a leasing standpoint,'' Mr. Amrich said. He said the building, which has a cleaner entry and a new facade, had been able to raise annual rents to as much as $130 a square foot, from $80 before the renovations. The building is 80 percent leased.
 Elaborate landscaping can require a lot of water and maintenance. Since this is potentially costly, it can make a big impact on a building's operating budget, a heightened concern at a time of rising inflation, said Thomas R. Krizmanic, a principal of Studios Architecture in the firm's New York office. 
 ''Indoor landscaping isn't a priority on the minds of my clients,'' he said, citing the building at 731 Lexington Avenue, whose office segment is known as the Bloomberg Tower and whose residential segment is called One Beacon Court. Mr. Krizmanic helped design the building, which was developed in 2005 by Vornado Realty Trust.
 The bulk of plants in the office part of the complex are 40 ficus trees lining a sixth-floor connecting walkway, though a lack of natural light on the ground floor also made plants impractical for the lobby, Mr. Krizmanic said.
 That owners and tenants are installing fewer plants while generally supporting trends for more environmentally friendly buildings seems like a contradiction to M. J. Gilhooley, the program coordinator for the eight-year-old Green Plants for Green Buildings, an advocacy group based in Loveland, Ohio.
 Ms. Gilhooley, whose group was initially financed by the landscaping industry, acknowledged that the most salable aspect of indoor plants was their ability to beautify spaces. But, she said, referencing a range of scientific studies, they can also make workers more attentive, absent less and more productive. Spiky-leafed bamboo palms, for one, are known to absorb potentially harmful formaldehyde emitted by certain woods and insulations, she said. 
 Yet, the United States Green Building Council, which promotes eco-friendly construction through its Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design benchmarks, or LEED, which developers must meet to be certified, does not award points for indoor plants. 
 ''The meat and potatoes of green buildings are usually what you can't see,'' said Russell Unger, the executive director of the council's New York chapter. 
 Still, the council does encourage planted roofs, and landscapers are responding, said Teresa Carleo, the founder of Plant Fantasies, a 21-year-old company in Manhattan that has one completed commercial project to its credit and five planned.
 For instance, on the 7,000-square-foot roof at 250 Hudson Street, a former printing plant in Hudson Square being converted to offices by Jack Resnick & Sons, Ms. Carleo will install crab apple trees and prairie grasses in stark contrast to the lobby, which will be essentially bare, she said.
 Residential roofs are being similarly dressed up, said Howard Freilich, the founder of Blondies Treehouse, a 29-year-old landscaping business in Westchester County. 
 While office building lobbies once clearly made up most New York projects for the company, he said condos do now.
 An example is the Caledonia, a Related Companies complex on West 17th Street where Mr. Freilich recently planted three roof gardens that totaled 20,000 square feet and included 100 trees and 1,000 cubic yards of soil.
 ''We really have to adapt and mold to the changing business to stay alive,'' he said.
 Not every landlord is swapping lobby plants for roof ones. In fact, the Cammeby's Management Company last year actually increased the landscaping in the lobby at 45 Broadway, a 32-story financial district tower, where a waterfall tumbles into a 3,000-gallon pond.
 As part of the $500,000 renovation, the pond received 120 koi and new beds of colorful plants were installed, while taller potted versions were added by the elevators, said Aron Weber, a Cammeby's director.
 Interior landscaping, if done properly, may not only attract tenants but retain them, he said. A virtual indoor park is ''a good place to calm yourself down when you're having a bad day,'' said Mr. Weber, adding, ''I've used it myself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The sparse lobby at 1330 Avenue of the Americas and its opposite at 45 Broadway, with plants, pond and waterfall.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



481 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: As Fifth Avenue Reshuffles, Some Mass-Marketers Slip In

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
The prime Fifth Avenue shopping district -- stretching from Rockefeller Center on 49th Street up to the Plaza Hotel on 60th Street -- might seem almost as immutable as the faces on Mount Rushmore. The stores here seem like institutions. Customarily, only one or two of the retailers might change in a given year.
This year is not typical. Many of the blocks have at least one storefront hidden behind construction plywood and scaffolding, sometimes for renovations. But in the first half of this year alone, four major retailers have signed leases for new spaces on this span of Fifth Avenue. By comparison, only one retailer signed a lease for new space there last year, and only two retailers signed such leases in 2006, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the big commercial brokerage firm.
''Usually we would see one large lease a year, but we saw a spate of leases with major brands,'' said Gene Spiegelman, an executive director in the retail services division of Cushman & Wakefield. 
There has also been a steep rise in rents in the last year; brokers attribute this in part to a flood of foreign tourism resulting from the weak dollar. Annual asking rents for retail space on Fifth Avenue from 49th Street to 60th Street have risen to as much as $2,500 a square foot, up from $1,500 a square foot a year ago, according to Cushman & Wakefield. ''Fifth Avenue is not operating like there is a recession,'' Mr. Spiegelman said.
Gucci set some of these dominoes in motion two years ago when it signed a lease in Trump Tower, at 725 Fifth Avenue. The entrance to the Gucci store is on the northeast corner of 56th Street, but this 664-foot-tall skyscraper has many more luxury shops and cafes in its soaring pink marble lobby on Fifth Avenue. The tower is the setting for the reality show ''The Apprentice.''
The new Gucci store opened in February in an airy 44,000-square-foot space that is roughly twice the size of the store that it closed the same month at 685 Fifth Avenue. That is a handsome neo-Classical-style Italianate building that Gucci has owned since the 1970s.
The bigger space has allowed the retailer to add a salon showcasing its women's evening wear and a separate dressing room for celebrities and other V.I.P.'s.
Brokers say the move has also created a bidding war for the store space that Gucci vacated in its own building, which is on the southeast corner of 54th Street. The old Gucci store occupied the first five floors of this 19-story building, which also houses the Milan-based designer's North and South American headquarters. But the company took back the fourth and fifth floors and plans to convert these to offices and showrooms.
Diesel, the Italian designer known for its $200 jeans, signed a lease for the remaining 20,000 square feet on the first three floors of the Gucci building in February.
One month later, Tommy Hilfiger signed a lease for 22,000 square feet next door, at 681 Fifth Avenue, between 53rd and 54th Streets. That space was formerly occupied by a Fortunoff store, which moved to 3 West 57th Street. Both Diesel and Tommy Hilfiger plan to open their new shops by early next year.
David LaPierre, a senior vice president in the retail services group at CB Richard Ellis, another big commercial real estate firm, described the bidding for the two storefronts as ''frenzied.'' He said prime Fifth Avenue spaces like these became available so rarely that when some retailers lost out on the Gucci building, their appetite was whetted for the next deal.
''They've already got corporate approval,'' he said. ''They've already bought into the idea of a Fifth Avenue location. They've done the hard work in losing another deal, so when a location comes up they are ready to move.''
At least one storefront change next year did not involve a new lease. Liz Claiborne is building a store for its Juicy Couture label at 650 Fifth Avenue, on the southwest corner of 52nd Street. It will replace a store that sells Mexx, another Liz Claiborne brand.
But most of the retailers are moving into spaces that other companies have decided to vacate. Earlier this month, for example, Walt Disney revealed that it did not plan to renew its lease for the World of Disney store at 711 Fifth Avenue, on the northeast corner of 55th Street, when it expires in 2010. Disney plans to move its Mickey Mouse T-shirts and Tinker Bell dolls to a undetermined smaller store elsewhere in Manhattan.
But a corner storefront in the heart of Fifth Avenue will not linger on the market for long, said Robert K. Futterman, the chairman and chief executive of Robert K. Futterman & Associates.
Indeed, another retailer is already building a new store in this same building, which is owned by the Coca-Cola Corporation. The luxury watch maker Omega signed a lease earlier this year at 711 Fifth Avenue, between 55th and 56th Streets, replacing an Alfred Dunhill store that recently moved to Madison Avenue.
In some cases, landlords are paying tenants that have below-market rents to vacate early, Mr. Futterman said. He said the retailer Hugo Boss had been paid to leave its store at 717 Fifth Avenue, at the southeast corner of 56th Street. Giorgio Armani signed a lease for this 40,000-square-foot space last year.
And Mr. Futterman said that the Kushner Companies had written ''a very large check'' to Brooks Brothers to buy that company out of its lease at 666 Fifth Avenue, which was scheduled to expire in 2014. Kushner owns all of the office space and 51 percent of the retail space in the building, which occupies the entire west side of the block from 52nd to 53rd Street. Retail brokers say that Brooks Brothers plans to focus more on its Manhattan flagship store on Madison Avenue.
Abercrombie & Fitch, the apparel retailer, signed a lease in July for 25,000 square feet, or roughly half of the space that the Brooks Brothers store now occupies. Abercrombie already has a 30,000-square-foot store at 720 Fifth Avenue, on the northwest corner of 56th Street.
It plans to open an Abercrombie Kids store in the new space. Cushman & Wakefield, which represented the landlord at 666 Fifth Avenue, is marketing the other half of the store, which will have a midblock entrance.
Abercrombie is the kind of mass-market retailer that is gradually slipping into the fancy Fifth Avenue retailing club. Gucci and Armani now rub shoulders with the Gap, on the southwest corner of 54th Street, and H&M, the discount Swedish retailer, which has a store on the northwest corner of 51st Street.
On the flip side, some mass-market retailers say they can show off their more glamorous fashions here. Gary Sheinbaum, the president of retailing for Tommy Hilfiger U.S.A., said his company's new Fifth Avenue store would sell dressier items than in many of its other stores. ''We will also have product designed especially for this store,'' he said. In addition to its lines of denim and sportswear, Hilfiger will show its women's runway line on the fourth floor.
Stephen Birkhold, the chief executive of Diesel USA, said the new store in the Gucci building will display the company's trademark denim on every level. But he said the large multilevel space would also allow the company to show off its pricier brand, called Diesel Black Gold.
''If you look at the success of H&M, Zara and Abercrombie, this has become more of a street for retailers who are mass market, but unique,'' Mr. Birkhold said ''They've brought a slightly different customer down Fifth Avenue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a section of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Above, a rendering of the new Tommy Hilfiger store.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLISON ARCHITECTS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Fifth avenue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); US DOLLAR (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (51%)

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (85%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (85%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (83%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (83%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



482 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: New York Behind the Curve

 BODY:
Measuring homelessness is not an exact science, but a government survey contains good news. The survey -- conducted in January by the Department of Housing and Urban Development -- reported a 30 percent drop in chronic homelessness nationwide, mostly among single adults, between 2005 and the end of 2007. 
 In recent years, the federal government has worked with hundreds of communities to address the problem. Washington has shared innovative approaches, helped local officials develop 10-year plans and provided incentives to communities to build new housing and provide support services. These efforts appear to have paid off. 
 The news is less encouraging in New York City. In 2004, the Bloomberg administration bravely announced a goal of reducing homelessness by two-thirds in five years. They've obviously fallen short: New York City's total homeless population declined just 5 percent, from a total of 36,399 in June of 2004 to 34,467 in March of this year, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. 
 The main reason for this relatively poor showing was the growth in the number of homeless families. Driven by job loss, rising rents or eviction, families in New York City are flocking to shelters in record numbers. Given the economic downturn, these numbers will likely only get worse unless the Bloomberg administration can devise creative ways to intervene before families are forced to turn to the city for shelter. 
 For starters, the city should increase aid to people who face eviction or are behind on their rent. It is much cheaper to keep families in their apartments than it is to support them in a shelter, which costs about $100 a day. Mediation between tenants and landlords, as well as financial and job counseling, should also be expanded. The city spends $651 million annually on shelters, but only $190 million on trying to prevent homelessness. 
 These priorities need to be adjusted. It is not just compassionate but fiscally smart to keep families out of shelters and in their homes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); EVICTION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); CITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); DISMISSALS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



483 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: NBC News Correspondent Named Anchor of New Public Television Newscast

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
The correspondent Martin Savidge is leaving NBC News for public television, where he is to become the anchor of a new weeknight broadcast that will focus on international news. WLIW in New York, which is developing the program, is expected to announce his appointment on Wednesday.
The newscast, ''Worldfocus,'' is scheduled to start broadcasting Oct. 6 on a lineup of public television stations nationwide that is still being assembled but already includes stations in 8 of the top 10 markets. On WLIW and its sister station, WNET, the newscast will replace ''BBC World News,'' with two airings on each station each night. The new show was announced in April, but details have been kept under wraps until now. 
''Worldfocus,'' with a start-up budget that station employees said is about $8 million, will attempt to fill what Mr. Savidge called a void in television news.
''When CNN was born as a concept, we all said: 'The 24-hour era of news has arrived; think of the topics we can cover,' '' he said in a telephone interview late Monday. But, he said, 24 hours now ''boils down to about six headlines repeated over and over and over,'' adding, ''It seems that opportunity was squandered.''
In recent days, he said, the conflict between Georgia and Russia was heavily covered by television news media in the United States, but not the economic downturn in Europe, Iraq's nearly unspent budget surplus from oil sales or the assassination of one of Syria's top generals. ''There were other events happening in the world that most Americans heard nothing about,'' Mr. Savidge said.
Many of those developments have implications for viewers in the United States, and ''the starting point of this show is what it means to Americans,'' said Marc Rosenwasser, the executive producer. ''Too often Americans are criticized for not taking an interest in foreign news, but too often people don't make it meaningful enough to them.''
Mr. Savidge, 50, was born to British parents and holds dual Canadian and United States citizenship. But he has never been stationed overseas during his television career, which started at local stations in the Midwest. He joined CNN in 1996 as an anchor, was later a correspondent there, and moved to NBC in 2004 as an Atlanta-based correspondent. During that time he reported extensively from abroad, including covering the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. In 2000 he won an Edward R. Murrow Award from the Radio-Television News Directors Association for his reporting on the Elian Gonzalez custody tug of war between the United States and Cuba.
Mr. Savidge will be the only full-time presence on the air on the new program, which Mr. Rosenwasser described as a cross between ABC's ''World News'' and its late-night program ''Nightline.'' It will cover ''all the day's news, but it will have a bigger anchor role in the way 'Nightline' does,'' said Mr. Rosenwasser, who spent 16 years at NBC News and was most recently a ''CBS Evening News'' senior producer. Deborah Amos of National Public Radio and Richard N. Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, will contribute to a weekly analysis of global events.
The newscast will rely on a still-growing list of partnerships, some formal and some ad hoc, with other news organizations that Mr. Rosenwasser said includes NBC, ABC, ITN of Britain, ABC of Australia and a number of European broadcasters, as well as The Christian Science Monitor and The New York Times.
To produce reports, ''Worldfocus'' has hired seasoned producers, many from the news divisions of the commercial networks, who will work with freelance reporters, Mr. Rosenwasser said. Teams are already in the field, he said, developing in-depth series about how the world is dealing with higher fuel and food prices and how the United States is perceived abroad.
Assistant producers will come from countries around the world, including India, Sierra Leone, Brazil, Taiwan and Middle Eastern nations. Mr. Rosenwasser said that he did not want a program produced ''by a bunch of New Yorkers figuring out the world from the West Side of Manhattan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martin Savidge reporting from outside Yasir Arafat's headquarters. Mr. Savidge's program ''Worldfocus'' is to start in October.(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF MARTIN SAVIDGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (95%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (91%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BUDGETS (88%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (91%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%); SYRIA (69%)

TITLE: Worldfocus (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



484 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE EVIDENCE GAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4273 words

HEADLINE: Drug Makers' Push Leads to Vaccines' Fast Rise

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL; Andrew Lehren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In two years, cervical cancer has gone from obscure killer confined mostly to poor nations to the West's disease of the moment. 
 Tens of millions of girls and young women have been vaccinated against the disease in the United States and Europe in the two years since two vaccines were given government approval in many countries and, often, recommended for universal use among females ages 11 to 26.
 One of the vaccines, Gardasil, from Merck, is made available to the poorest girls in the country, up to age 18, at a potential cost to the United States government of more than $1 billion; proposals to mandate the vaccine for girls in middle schools have been offered in 24 states, and one will take effect in Virginia this fall. Even the normally stingy British National Health Service will start giving the other vaccine -- Cervarix, from GlaxoSmithKline -- to all 12-year-old girls at school this September. 
 The lightning-fast transition from newly minted vaccine to must-have injection in the United States and Europe represents a triumph of what the manufacturers call education and their critics call marketing. The vaccines, which offer some protection against infection from sexually transmitted viruses, are far more expensive than earlier vaccines against other diseases -- Gardasil's list price is $360 for the three-dose series, and the total cost is typically $400 to nearly $1,000 with markup and office visits (and often only partially covered by health insurance). 
 Award-winning advertising has promoted the vaccines. Before the film ''Sex and the City,'' some moviegoers in the United States saw ads for Gardasil. On YouTube and in advertisements on popular shows like ''Law and Order,'' a multiethnic cast of young professionals urges girls to become ''one less statistic'' by getting vaccinated. 
 The vaccine makers have also brought attention to cervical cancer by providing money for activities by patients' and women's groups, doctors and medical experts, lobbyists and political organizations interested in the disease, sometimes in ways that skirt disclosure requirements or obscure the companies' involvement. 
 Even critics of the marketing efforts recognize the benefits of the vaccines. Girls who get the shots are less likely to have Pap tests with worrisome results that would lead to further treatment, saving themselves anxiety and discomfort and, in those cases, saving money. When it occurs, cervical cancer is a dreadful disease; genital warts, partly prevented by the Merck vaccine, can be a painful nuisance.
 But some experts worry about the consequences of the rapid rollout of the new vaccines without more medical evidence about how best to deploy them. They say that because of the aggressive marketing, even parents of girls who are far from being sexually active may feel pressured into giving them a vaccine that is not yet needed and whose long-term impact is still unclear. Legislative efforts to require girls to have the vaccine only add to the pressure.
 In the United States, hundreds of doctors have been recruited and trained to give talks about Gardasil -- $4,500 for a lecture -- and some have made hundreds of thousands of dollars. Politicians have been lobbied and invited to receptions urging them to legislate against a global killer. And former state officials have been recruited to lobby their former colleagues. 
 ''There was incredible pressure from industry and politics,'' said Dr. Jon Abramson, a professor of pediatrics at Wake Forest University who was chairman of the committee of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that recommended the vaccine for all girls once they reached 11 or 12. 
 ''This big push is making people crazy -- thinking they're bad moms if they don't get their kids vaccinated,'' said Dr. Abby Lippman, a professor at McGill University in Montreal and policy director of the Canadian Women's Health Network. Canada will spend $300 million on a cervical cancer vaccine program.
 Merck's vaccine was studied in clinical trials for five years, and Glaxo's for nearly six and a half, so it is not clear how long the protection will last. Some data from the clinical trials indicate immune molecules may wane after three to five years. If a 12-year-old is vaccinated, will she still be protected in college, when her risk of infection is higher? Or will a booster vaccine be necessary? 
 Some experts are concerned about possible side effects that become apparent only after a vaccine has been more widely tested over longer periods.
 And why the sudden alarm in developed countries about cervical cancer, some experts ask. A major killer in the developing world, particularly Africa, where the vaccines are too expensive for use, cervical cancer is classified as very rare in the West because it is almost always preventable through regular Pap smears, which detect precancerous cells early enough for effective treatment. Indeed, because the vaccines prevent only 70 percent of cervical cancers, Pap smear screening must continue anyway. 
 ''Merck lobbied every opinion leader, women's group, medical society, politicians, and went directly to the people -- it created a sense of panic that says you have to have this vaccine now,'' said Dr. Diane Harper, a professor of medicine at Dartmouth Medical School. Dr. Harper was a principal investigator on the clinical trials of both Gardasil and Cervarix, and she spent 2006-7 on sabbatical at the World Health Organization developing plans for cervical cancer vaccine programs around the world. 
 ''Because Merck was so aggressive, it went too fast,'' Dr. Harper said. ''I would have liked to see it go much slower.'' 
 In receiving expedited consideration from the Food and Drug Administration, Gardasil took six months from application to approval and was recommended by the C.D.C. weeks later for universal use among girls. Most vaccines take three years to get that sort of endorsement, Dr. Harper said, and then 5 to 10 more for universal acceptance. 
 ''In that time, you learn a lot about safety and side effects and how to use it,'' Dr. Harper said. ''Those getting it early should be the ones who really want it and willing to accept the risk.''
 Dr. Richard Haupt, medical director at Merck, said the vaccine had not been rushed into use, saying that five years in clinical trails was normal before applying for licensing. He said Merck educated physicians, politicians and the public about the new vaccine to ''accelerate and facilitate access.''
 Spokesmen for Merck and Glaxo say all indications are that their vaccines are safe and effective, and there is no evidence that a booster shot will be needed. A Glaxo spokeswoman, Sarah Alspach, said its formulation produces a ''stronger and longer-lasting immune response'' than conventional vaccines.
 ''You can only study a vaccine for so long before you license and use it in a population where it has enormous value,'' said Dr. Haupt at Merck. ''Our hope and belief is that this is a remarkable vaccine that will have huge impact on women.''
 But with their high price, the vaccines are straining national and state health budgets as well as family pocketbooks. These were the first vaccines approved for universal use in any age group that clearly cost the health system money rather than saved it, in contrast to less expensive shots, against measles and tetanus, for example, that pay for themselves by preventing costly diseases.
 Health economists estimate that depending on how they are used, the two cervical cancer vaccines will cost society $30,000 to $70,000, or higher, for each year of life they save in developed countries -- a cost commonly seen in treating people already suffering from deadly cancers. That number will be far higher if a booster is needed. 
 Looked at another way, countries that pay for the vaccines will have less money available for other health needs. ''This kind of money could be better used to solve so many other problems in women's health,'' said Dr. Lippman at McGill. ''Some of our provinces are running out of money to provide primary care. I'm not against vaccines, but in Canada and the U.S., women are not dying in the streets of cervical cancer.'' 
 By contrast, if the vaccine were to become cheap enough to be used in the developing world, particularly Africa, it would revolutionize women's health. Charities like the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunizations, backed by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, are trying to devise a solution. 
 The vaccines offer partial protection against infection from human papillomavirus, or HPV, a common and generally benign sexually transmitted virus that can in rare cases cause cancer after years of silent infection. The Merck vaccine also prevents some genital warts that are caused by other strains of the virus.
 In Britain, ''this initiative was seen as a good use of resources that fits with the government's health priorities and political priorities,'' said Professor David Salisbury, who heads the Department of Health's Vaccine and Immunization Committee. 
 But critics urge restraint. ''There is no need to rush,'' said Angela Raffle, a specialist in cervical cancer screening with the National Health Service in Britain, where 400 people die of the cancer each year. ''If we do this quickly and badly, we could cause more deaths,'' from side effects, for example, or from giving girls false security that they are protected for life and no longer need to be screened, Ms. Raffle said. 
 The Campaigns
 Stephanie Levi decided to give her two daughters the vaccine in late 2006 after receiving a newsletter from their physician. ''When you get a letter saying this is what you need to do to protect your girls, of course you do it,'' she said, adding that she was curious because she had not realized cervical cancer was a problem. 
 That week, she noticed articles and advertisements for the vaccine. ''I remember thinking I had better do this quickly,'' said Ms. Levi who lived in New York then and now lives in Rome.
 It is not hard to hear about Gardasil.
 In television advertisements, a cast of hip people in their 20s -- artists, writers and professionals -- describe why they got the shots, in the language of liberation, such as, ''I chose to get vaccinated because my dreams don't include cervical cancer.'' The advertisements direct viewers to gardasil.com, which includes patients' stories, buddy icons and downloads for holding an event at sororities.
 Girls of any age who have had one dose of the vaccine can ask for text-message ''reminders'' from Merck to get the next two shots. The offers come with another reminder: ''I understand that the information I provide will be used by Merck or those working on behalf of Merck for market research purposes.''
 For such efforts, Merck last May swept the 2008 Pharmaceutical Advertising and Marketing Excellence awards, and Gardasil was named Brand of the Year by Pharma Executive Magazine.
 The marketing helped make Gardasil one of Merck's best sellers, with a projected sales of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion outside Europe this year, and more from sales in Europe, where Merck sells the vaccine through a joint venture with Sanofi Aventis. 
 Aggressive pharmaceutical advertising is nothing new, but the campaign was a revolution for a vaccine. Vaccines were traditionally the orphans of the pharmaceutical world because they were cheap and not particularly profitable. But the two for cervical cancer are the latest in a wave of high-priced vaccines that have come to market since 2001, opening a lucrative new field. 
 Co-opting Doctors and Nurses
 Girls and their families are by no means the only marketing target. 
 In 2006, hundreds of doctors and nurses were signed up as unofficial spokesmen for Gardasil, trained by Merck, provided with a multimedia presentation and paid $4,500 for each 50-minute talk, delivered over Merck-sponsored meals. Many were paid for attending Merck ''advisory board'' meetings to discuss the shots. 
 Merck said it provided assistance to speakers ''to make sure they are providing accurate information in accordance with F.D.A.-approved labeling and to make sure dissemination of information is always appropriate,'' said Amy Rose, a company spokeswoman. 
 Promotion and marketing for Cervarix, Glaxo's version of the vaccine, has been far less visible, in part because it has not been approved yet for use in the United States, and because consumer advertising of medicines is prohibited in much of Europe. Outstanding data from final clinical trials will probably be submitted to American drug regulators early next year, the company said. 
 There has also been a proliferation of cervical cancer awareness conferences and campaigns, sponsored by a host of new or newly energized scientific and patient groups financed with the help of Merck and Glaxo. In some cases the financial support has been indirect, so patients are unaware that expert advice has been at last partly paid for by the vaccine makers.
 Gregory A. Poland, a vaccine expert at the Mayo Clinic, was a nonvoting member on the C.D.C. panel that recommended Gardasil in 2006 and has publicly defended the panel's decision. Records show he received at least $27,420 in expenses and consulting fees from Merck from 1999 to 2007. Both the C.D.C. and Dr. Michael Camilleri, chairman of the Mayo Clinic Conflict of Interest Review Board, speaking on Dr. Poland's behalf, said the payments complied with institutional requirements. 
 To encourage vaccination on campus, Merck provided the American College Health Association with an unrestricted grant to train its officers to speak about the new vaccine and to create kits to discuss cervical cancer and promote the vaccine for college health services. The association now recommends the shot for all female college-age students, even though many in that group already have HPV, rendering the vaccine less useful.
 Dr. James Turner, president-elect of the association, said it accepted Merck's grant to undertake the campaign because ''HPV is a very important health issue for college students,'' adding that his group was ''a very small organization, and we don't have funds.'' 
 Small charities have also benefited from Merck's contributions. 
 At the second annual patient conference of the National Cervical Cancer Coalition, planned for Los Angeles this October, four of the seven scheduled speakers have received money for research or consulting from Merck, Glaxo or other companies involved in HPV screening or detection, though the conference organizers do not mention that. The coalition, which supports widespread use of the cervical cancer vaccines, is headed by a businessman, Alan Kaye, who owns a pathology lab that performs Pap smears and HPV tests, among other services. ''We are a poor nonprofit, and I've been working on this issue for years,'' said Mr. Kaye, who hopes to receive grants from the drug makers to help pay for the conference. 
 Persuading the Governments
 In country after country, Merck and Glaxo also appealed to politicians. Vaccines, unlike antibiotics, tend to be recommended or mandated by governments. ''We support policy leaders and try to educate legislators,'' Dr. Haupt said.
 In the United States, 41 states have passed or begun considering legislation on cervical cancer, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, and 24 have considered proposals to mandate the vaccine for girls, generally in middle school. 
 Many bills, like ones passed in Colorado, New Jersey and New York, allocate more money for HPV and cervical cancer education or to promote the vaccine. Others, like proposals in Iowa and Louisiana, require insurers to cover it.
 The only state to pass a bill requiring the vaccine for school entry is Virginia; it takes effect in October, after school begins, so will first apply in 2009. 
 Merck has a growing economic interest in Virginia. In December 2006, Merck announced it would invest $57 million to expand its Elkton, Va., plant to make Gardasil, helped by a $700,000 grant from a state economic development agency that is part of the executive branch. Two months later, Gov. Tim Kaine, who has been mentioned as a possible Democratic vice presidential candidate, signed legislation requiring Gardasil for schoolgirls. Four months after that, Merck pledged to invest $193 million more in the plant to make drugs and vaccines, helped by a state grant of $1.5 million.
 Delacey Skinner, a spokeswoman for the governor, said the state's vaccination program included an unusually broad freedom to decline the shot. To exempt children from other vaccines, parents must provide a medical reason; for Gardasil, they do not. ''It is a very easy step that we can take to prevent a sometimes deadly but certainly serious form of cancer,'' Ms. Skinner said. 
 ''Without hesitation or question,'' she added, the decisions about the plant and about the mandate legislation ''were completely separate.''
 But, as in many states where cervical cancer legislation has been considered, there have been ties between drug makers and members of government. In 2006, one of Merck's newly hired Virginia lobbyists was Sandra D. Bowen, who had spent years as Virginia's secretary of administration. And Bill Bolling, the state's lieutenant governor, became an outspoken participant in the ''Ending Cervical Cancer in Our Lifetime'' campaign, a program started in 2006 by the National Lieutenant Governors Association and financed largely by Merck and Glaxo.
 ''This is an important public health issue,'' said Randy Marcus, Mr. Bolling's spokesman. 
 In Texas, Merck hired Gov. Rick Perry's former chief of staff as a lobbyist, and contributed $6,000 to the governor and $38,000 to other legislators. Last February, Mr. Perry ordered that all schoolgirls be inoculated with Gardasil, a pronouncement that was overturned by the Texas Legislature, 181 to 3, a few months after the financial conflicts were revealed.
 Early last year, Merck announced that it would no longer actively lobby for state mandates. But Dr. Haupt defended the initial impulse, saying that historically such school requirements had been a successful way to increase access to and financing for vaccines. 
 Other forms of lobbying continue: Merck and Glaxo have both paid into a program run by Cornerstone Government Affairs, a Washington firm, to lobby the C.D.C. and Congress for more federal money for vaccines.
 In Britain, drug makers paid for breakfast meetings with politicians and visited the nurses and family practitioners who are the backbone of the National Health Service, urging them to offer the vaccine. 
 In Belgium, the health minister approved the vaccine before the country's health technology evaluation committee had finished deliberating. 
 Unanswered Questions
 Many questions about the vaccines remain unanswered, including how long immunity will last. Even commercials for Gardasil say -- in small print -- that ''the duration of protection has not been established.'' 
 Dr. Harper said that in the data from Merck's clinical trials, which she helped conduct, the vaccine was no longer protective after just three years in some girls. ''The immunity of Gardasil will not last -- that is dangerous to assume,'' she said. 
 She said she believed that at least one booster shot, and probably more, would be needed over a lifetime. Dr. Haupt of Merck said that the ''durability of immunity'' would ultimately be defined through widespread use of the vaccine, but that the company's research strongly suggested that immunity would be long lasting -- far more than five years. 
 Other independent experts worry that eliminating the two cancer-causing HPV strains covered by Gardasil and Cervarix might allow the other cancer-causing strains of HPV to increase in frequency, reducing the vaccine's effect. But Dr. Haupt said such ''theoretical possibilities'' should not deter rapid distribution of an important vaccine. ''We'll worry about whether boosters are needed down the road,'' he said.
 The question of side effects, however, has nagged the vaccine. 
 The Centers for Disease Control asks health care centers to report side effects through its Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System; reporting is voluntary. There have been 9,749 reports, almost all from doctors and nurses, of patients experiencing adverse events after receiving the vaccine, the agency announced in a joint report with the Food and Drug Administration at the end of June. Ninety-four percent of them were not serious, ranging from arm pain to fainting, and 6 percent were classified as serious, including blood clots, paralysis and at least 20 deaths.
 But 16 million doses of the drug have been distributed by Merck in the United States, and in a population so large, ''by chance alone some serious adverse effects and deaths'' will occur, the F.D.A. and C.D.C. said. 
 The agencies said there was no indication that the deaths or serious side effects were caused by the shot, concluding that ''Gardasil continues to be safe and effective and its benefits continue to outweigh its risks.'' 
 Both the agencies and Merck acknowledge that there does appear to be a high rate of fainting, so doctors are now advised to observe patients for 15 minutes after receiving a shot. 
 For some couples, the vaccine has raised agonizing questions over how to safeguard their children's health. Phillip and Barbara Tetlock, both professors at the University of California at Berkeley, are asking whether Gardasil shots that their daughter, Jenny, received last year contributed to her illness, an extremely rare form of progressive paralysis that has left her bed bound and needing assistance to breathe at age 14. 
 The Tetlocks, who are not pursuing legal action, are appealing to the C.D.C. and Merck for more data and searching for other girls with similar conditions through their blog (www.jenjensfamily.blogspot.com). ''Her parents are scientists -- they know better than to assume Gardasil caused her disease,'' said Terry Murray, a close friend speaking for the family. ''But you have to explore the possibility.'' 
 Dr. Harper said she believed the vaccine was generally safe. She vaccinated her own children. But with Gardasil's use having grown so fast, she added, ''you inevitably find adverse events that you wouldn't have suspected.''
 ''The Tetlocks are right to ask these questions,'' she added.
 Dr. Haupt of Merck said that the company knew of the case but saw no ''causal association.'' 
 Worth the Cost?
 Countries and consumers must decide whether it is worth preventing cervical cancer with a costly vaccine. 
 Cervical cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer death in women, with 500,000 new cases worldwide each year. But more than 90 percent of them are in developing countries, according to the World Health Organization; 274,000 women died of this cancer in 2006, nearly 95 percent in developing countries.
 Where there are Pap smear programs, few women die of cervical cancer. In the United States, it is responsible for 12,000 new cases a year and 3,600 deaths, most in women who did not get Pap smears, said Laurie Markowitz, head of the HPV working group at the C.D.C. (Women with H.I.V. are predisposed to the cancer.) 
 Pap smears work by detecting abnormal cells that are cancer precursors and that can be destroyed using techniques like lasers and cryotherapy or, rarely, surgery. As with any screening test, and most vaccines, the process is not 100 percent effective, and a small number of women with precancerous cells escape detection with false negative tests, for example. But because the transformation from abnormal cell to cancer normally takes a decade, and frequent Pap smears are recommended, it has been a successful strategy -- though the vaccine, used properly, might well prove a useful adjunct.
 Indeed, cervical cancer does not even make the American Cancer Society's list of 10 deadliest cancers. Among American women, it causes well under a 10th of the number of deaths caused by lung cancer or breast cancer. 
 Though classified as a sexually transmitted disease, HPV is nearly universal and generally benign. Eighty percent of people will contract it in their lifetime and most will clear it on their own.
 Dr. Haupt of Merck said the vaccines' price was worth it for the deaths prevented and the tests avoided. ''Most of the old vaccines are undervalued,'' he said. 
 Dr. Abramson said he thought his C.D.C. advisory committee did the right thing in recommending Gardasil. ''Cervical cancer is a worthwhile disease to prevent in a country that has the resources,'' he said. He believes it should be available to those who want it.
 Still, he said he was shocked to hear of proposals to mandate the vaccine for students. ''Are you really going to say a girl can't start school because she hasn't had this vaccine?'' he said.
 Meanwhile, the vaccines' proponents are moving to the next frontier: older women and boys. Merck recently applied for approval to market the vaccine to women 26 to 45 and is conducting studies on vaccinating boys, who can get genital warts from HPV. 
 One rationale for inoculating boys is that entire populations should be vaccinated to achieve what is called herd immunity. But critics ask whether it is worth conducting a campaign on the scale of the one used against polio to eliminate a generally harmless virus. 
 Said Dr. Raffle, the British cervical cancer specialist: ''Oh, dear. If we give it to boys, then all pretense of scientific worth and cost analysis goes out the window.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 20 about new vaccines that target the human papillomavirus and cervical cancer overstated the significance of their development in one respect. These vaccines are among the first -- they are not the only ones so far -- approved for universal use in any age group that clearly cost the health system money rather than save it. The article also misidentified the magazine that chose the Merck vaccine, Gardasil, as Brand of the Year in 2008. The magazine is Pharmaceutical Executive, not Pharma Executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Merck advertisement for Gardasil, a cancer vaccine. (pg.A1)
''Merck lobbied every opinion leader, women's group, medical society, politicians, and went directly to the people -- it created a sense of panic that says you have to have this vaccine now.'' Dr. Diane Harper, a professor of medicine at Dartmouth Medical School (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16)
 DRUG MAKERS' BIG PUSH: A marketing campaign in the United States and Europe by Merck has made Gardasil, its cervical cancer vaccine, a best seller. Cervarix, a similar vaccine from GlaxoSmithKline, has also proved popular, and profitable. (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CANCER (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); CERVICAL CANCER (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); SKIN DISORDERS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); VIRUSES (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



485 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Does Business Pay Its Fair Tax Share?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Corporate Free Ride'' (editorial, Aug. 18):
 You say that ''it is a uniquely American paradox'' that ''this country's corporate tax rates are among the highest in the industrial world, yet the taxes that corporations pay are among the lowest.'' 
 The solution seems clear: Reduce the corporate tax rate and eliminate the loopholes. 
 This would increase the efficiency of collecting taxes by reducing the incentive to bend the rules, and in the process reduce the cost of administering the revenue system for everyone. 
 Lou Kirschbaum 
 Largo, Fla., Aug. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I was surprised to learn that you ''find it hard to believe that some two-thirds of American companies fail to turn a profit.'' 
 Believe it. 
 A vast majority of corporations are small businesses. They avoid corporate-level tax by paying higher salaries to their owners. This reduces the corporate tax but increases the owners' personal income taxes. Simple. Effective. Legal. Eric Robinson
 Hauppauge, N.Y., Aug. 18, 2008
 The writer is an accountant.
 To the Editor:
 Here's a crazy idea to address your concerns: Lower the ridiculously high, uncompetitive corporate taxes Uncle Sam attempts to saddle American businesses with. That might ''persuade'' them to keep jobs, invest in capital and report profits here in the United States. 
 What you call a ''uniquely American paradox'' is actually one of the simplest, most demonstrable principles of economics: the more government reduces incentives, the more businesses will seek and find them elsewhere. 
 What the United States cannot afford is another decade of current corporate tax rates that handicap our companies and negate the American advantage. 
 Who really ends up paying these taxes? According to many leading economists, they are simply passed along to consumers at the retail level. 
 David Coghlan 
 Washington, Aug. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I fail to see the paradox. To me, it is because ''this country's corporate tax rates are among the highest in the industrial world'' that ''the taxes that corporations pay are among the lowest.'' 
 With much more at risk, why not hire the best lawyers and accountants to tilt the tables in your favor?
 In this competitive world, perhaps the best approach is to simplify and significantly lower corporate taxes -- encourage companies to be here and have their jobs here. 
 People should pay taxes, and taxes should cover government expenses. These basic economic rules seem far beyond our power of understanding. 
 David McAuley 
 McLean, Va., Aug. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The tone of your editorial appears to be about fairness in paying taxes -- for both corporations and individuals. 
 Why is it, then, that you write, ''The first place to look for money to close the budget deficit should be among the high-income individuals who have been treated so generously by the Bush administration''?
 According to the I.R.S., based on 2006 returns, the top 10 percent in income paid a staggering 71 percent of all income taxes, while the bottom 50 percent collectively paid only 3 percent. 
 Please explain to us again how the 10 percent who paid 71 percent of the nation's income tax were treated ''generously.'' John Heiman 
 Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I certainly agree that many corporations are not paying the taxes they should. 
 You mention some methods of evasion. In addition, I think the public should be aware that when a corporation pays a fine for some wrongdoing, the public actually picks up one-third of the tab, since the amount of the fine can be treated as a tax-deductible item by the wrongdoer. 
 Something is clearly wrong with this.
 Martin A. Coleman 
 Potomac, Md., Aug. 18, 2008
 The writer is a retired lawyer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



486 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Discounters Struggle, And So Does The High End

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Saks posted a wider-than-expected quarterly loss on Tuesday and Target said profit fell 8 percent as the sluggish economy hurt luxury and discount retailers alike. 
 Saks forecast weak sales through the end of the year as an anemic economy prompted even its well-heeled shoppers to curb spending, and Target said the economic conditions were the harshest it had seen in years. 
 Saks said it expected sales at stores open at least a year to be flat or slightly lower in the second half of the fiscal year.
 ''We know the near term will be difficult, and that we will continue to face challenges,'' the chief executive, Stephen I. Sadove, said during a call with analysts.
 The company, based in New York, said its net loss widened to $31.7 million, or 23 cents a share, from $24.6 million, or 17 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales in the period, which ended Aug. 2 and was the second quarter of Saks's fiscal year, fell to $669.2 million, from $694.1 million.
 Saks said its sales weakened across nearly all regions and merchandise categories. The loss was worse than analysts had expected and the company's stock fell 93 cents, or 8.3 percent, at $10.29 a share.
 Target, based in Minneapolis, said volatile back-to-school sales made it uncertain about its ability to meet analysts' estimates for the third quarter.
 ''The customer is very cash-strapped right now and, in some ways, our greatest strength has become somewhat of a challenge in that our stores are fun and unique,'' the chief executive, Gregg W. Steinhafel, said on a conference call, though he made clear the company had no plans to change its strategy.
 ''We have both what you need and what you want, and during these tough economic times, some of our consumers don't want to be tempted as much as they have in the past,'' Mr. Steinhafel said. 
 Target said it earned $634 million, down from $686 million a year earlier. Earnings per share were higher as a result of having fewer shares outstanding, and rose to 82 cents a share, from 80 cents a share.
 Sales in the period, which was the second quarter of Target's fiscal year, rose 5.7 percent, to $15 billion, from $14.2 billion, but sales at stores open at least a year slipped 0.4 percent.
 Its per-share results beat analysts' average estimate of 76 cents, but its stock fell 33 cents Tuesday, to $49.72 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN I SADOVE (59%); GREGG STEINHAFEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



487 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Higher Costs Taking a Toll On Business

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and PETER S. GOODMAN; An earlier version of this article misstated the rise in wholesale prices in July. It was 1.2 percent, not 1.8 percent, which was the increase in June.

 BODY:
Prices for goods purchased by American businesses surged more than expected in July and have jumped by nearly 10 percent over the last year -- the sharpest increase since 1981.
The data released on Tuesday by the Labor Department underscored how rising prices have seeped into much of the economy, led by higher costs for food and energy. Businesses have been absorbing some of the higher costs themselves while passing much of the increase to consumers, intensifying the strain on households just as joblessness expands and spending power shrinks.
''There is virtually nothing that we have touched in the last six months that hasn't increased,'' said Gary O'Neal, a division manager at Central Plains Steel in Wichita, Kan., which distributes steel to manufacturers of construction and farming equipment. ''The prices have increased so rapidly and so high compared to historically where they've been. It's just been uncharted territory.''
Many economists assert that inflation is already being choked off by a slowing global economy. Oil prices have sharply fallen in recent weeks, filtering through the economy in the form of lower prices for gasoline and heating oil. Economic weakness has spread beyond the United States to Europe and Japan, diminishing demand for basic commodities from iron ore to lumber while taking the edge off lofty price increases. 
''The cure for the inflation problem is a recession in the United States and Europe,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''We have a recession, and while that's lamentable, it makes the inflation numbers old news.''
That trade-off makes tens of millions of Americans vulnerable to an unpalatable pair of alternatives: Either inflation will continue swiftly and impose austerity by shrinking the purchasing power of wages, or rising prices will be canceled out by weakness in the economy as the downturn hurts businesses and eliminates some paychecks altogether.
''There's nothing in here to feel good about,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''The consumer is either going to get smacked around by inflation or a sagging economy. If you're someone who depends on a paycheck, neither one helps you very much.''
Since last fall, when the economy offered its first clear signs of slowing, the Federal Reserve has operated at the cusp of these two alternatives, initially lowering interest rates to spur economic activity, and more recently holding steady out of concern that more easing would exacerbate inflation.
As inflation fears have taken hold, a minority chorus of economists has intoned that the Fed must lift rates or risk runaway prices. The data on Tuesday seemed to lend credence to such talk.
So-called producer prices -- those charged to businesses for wholesale goods -- increased by 1.2 percent in July, or roughly twice as fast as most economists had forecast. Core producer prices -- which do not include food and energy -- rose by 3.5 percent between July of this year and July 2007, the largest annual increase since 1991.
That data followed reports released last week showing that consumer prices also expanded at the fastest pace in 17 years.
But most economists assume the Fed will again hold the line on rates when it convenes next month. They say the Fed is likely to lean toward the view that the economic deterioration in Japan and Europe -- combined with weak growth in the United States -- will crimp inflation. The price of oil has plunged from a high of more than $145 a barrel in July to $114.53 on Tuesday.
Economists, meanwhile, construed another batch of data released on Tuesday as a sign that a weakening economy remained a greater risk than rising prices. Housing starts -- the beginnings of new home construction -- were running at an annual rate of 965,000 in July, the lowest level since 1991.
Worries about the health of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored mortgage finance giants that together guarantee more than 40 percent of all home loans, continued to weigh on the economy.
''There's some reason to think this could have been inflation's last hurrah,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh.
Much of that analysis rests on the fact that, this time, accelerating inflation has not created a so-called wage-price spiral, in which workers respond to higher prices by extracting higher wages from employers, further raising costs. That dynamic was a major culprit in the stagflation of the 1970s, when inflation and stagnation combined to choke the economy.
''Wages are still well behaved, which is good from an inflation point of view,'' Mr. Hoffman said.
From a pocketbook point of view, however, that amounts to a pay cut for many workers. In July, rank-and-file employees -- roughly 80 percent of the American work force -- earned 3.1 percent less than they had a year earlier after accounting for the rising cost of living. The economy has shed 429,000 jobs this year, according to the Labor Department.
In the suburbs of Columbus, Ohio, Andrea White must now explain to her two girls, 17 and 12, why they will not have new outfits to begin this school year, why they cannot go out to eat and why their living room is now devoid of furniture. It was sold to raise money when Ms. White lost her job as an advertising sales assistant at a local television station in January.
They now live exclusively on her husband's earnings from his job at a plastics factory. Rising prices have worsened their predicament.
''We don't buy clothing anymore,'' Ms. White said. ''We're now down to buying generic brands of food, and even that has risen in price.''
Businesses, already grappling with weak sales, have more recently struggled to manage their operations as costs have risen wildly.
''It's come on in a rush, just in the last three months or so,'' said David Guernsey, president of an office supply distributor called Guernsey Office Products in Chantilly, Va. The price of paper clips alone has jumped by 40 percent, he said.
''It's frightening. I have been in this business 37 years. Generally, when there was a downturn, prices have stabilized or dropped. This is the antithesis of that.''
Mr. Guernsey has been passing on higher costs to his customers, raising his prices by about 10 percent. But he has been bearing increased fuel costs himself, diminishing his profits.
Not everyone, however, can pass along the higher costs. In Allentown, Pa., Iris Konia shut down her restaurant, the Federal Grill and Cigar Bar, last month, frustrated by the price squeeze. Her costs for bread, flour, sugar and beef were all rising at once, yet raising menu prices just sent her customers to cheaper options. Serving smaller portion sizes and eliminating extras seemed to only deepen her problem.
''Many people who came to the restaurant would be like, 'Oh, isn't salad included?' '' Ms. Konia said.
In Wichita, Central Plains Steel has been contending with an almost 90 percent increase in the cost of its raw material.
''In the 36 years I've been in this business, this is the most unusual steel market I've ever been in,'' said Mr. O'Neal, the division manager.
Rising energy costs have increased the price of rail freight and gas for the company's delivery trucks. The wood it uses for packaging has become more expensive.
At first, customers balked when the company raised prices. Since then, the reality of inflation has embedded itself in the industry. Customers just pay or postpone orders.
''They've just become numb to it,'' Mr. O'Neal said. ''You've got to have the steel, and that's the price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new home in Richmond, Va. Housing starts in July fell to their lowest level since 1991. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) CHARTS: TROUBLING TRENDS: Producer prices rose to their highest rate in 27 years last month as housing starts fell to their lowest rate in 17 years. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Census Bureau
 Department of Housing and Urban Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); WHOLESALERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEATING OIL (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%) KANSAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



488 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Lower Manhattan Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Police Want Tight Security Zone at Ground Zero'' (front page, Aug. 12): 
 The New York Police Department is proposing traffic barriers at all corners where vehicles might enter the six-block World Trade Center site, as part of the Lower Manhattan Security Initiative. These barricades and guard booths would reportedly help prevent the possibility of a car bomb attack. With careful planning, valid security concerns need not conflict with the principle of reintegrating the World Trade Center site into the life of Lower Manhattan.
 The proposed N.Y.P.D. equivalent of Checkpoint Charlie is unnecessary if we implement in Lower Manhattan a series of concentric and increasingly pedestrianized zones, lined with mixed uses and converging on the World Trade Center site. Not only would this mitigate the effect of necessary security measures, it would also maintain the area's economic viability and accessibility. 
 Rather than an N.Y.P.D.-designed site, such a solution will require cooperative efforts with planners, architects, landscape designers and transportation professionals, with the input of local residents and businesses.
 Fredric Bell New York, Aug. 12, 2008
 The writer is executive director of the American Institute of Architects, New York chapter, and a member of the steering committee of New York New Visions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



489 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: In Sea of Similar Body Types, Nonconformists Can Succeed

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Usain Bolt is too tall to be a world-class sprinter. Mike Friedman is too heavy to be an elite cyclist. Stefan Holm is too short to be champion high jumper, and Erin Donohue is too short and stocky be a star middle-distance runner. Yet all of them are Olympians, and athletic anomalies, bucking conventional wisdom and somehow rising to the same arenas as Michael Phelps, He Kexin and Dara Torres. 
 Friedman, at 5 feet 9 inches and 170 pounds, knows he does not look like most of his tall, lean teammates. 
 ''I have an odd-shaped body, that's for sure,'' Friedman said in an interview here, days before he competed Tuesday for the United States track cycling team. But, he added, ''I can time-trial pretty good for a fat kid.'' 
 If such unusually shaped athletes can succeed at this elite level, exercise researchers have asked, then what does that say about the physical qualities needed to be an Olympian? 
 No one answer exists: these anomalous athletes each have ways of compensating for what others may consider the disadvantages of their dimensions. Yet their success also challenges the expectations of exercise science. There are logical explanations, but they go only so far. The complete answer, said Edward F. Coyle, an exercise physiologist who is the director of the Human Performance Laboratory at the University of Texas, ''is kind of a mystery.''
 Different sports require different bodies. At one extreme are events like the hammer throw. Its athletes are huge -- tall, powerful and thickly muscled, like the gold-medal winner Primoz Kozmus of Slovenia, who is 6-2 and 247 pounds. 
 At the other extreme are distance and middle-distance runners. They are generally tiny, with twiglike legs and no obvious muscles on their upper bodies, the way Kenenisa Bekele of Ethiopia is. Bekele is 5-5 and 123 pounds, and on Sunday he repeated as the Olympic champion in the men's 10,000-meter race.
 ''Within a sport, athletes tend to be more alike than unlike,'' said Robert Malina, an emeritus professor of kinesiology and health education at Texas.
 There are, of course, those who do not fit the prototype, even at the Olympic level. Bolt, the sprinter from Jamaica, lowered his world record in the 100 meters Saturday, sailing past his shorter, more muscular competitors.
 Holm, a high jumper from Sweden, is just 5-11, ''a dwarf'' in a sport in which the average height is 6-4, said Francis Holway, an exercise and nutrition researcher in Buenos Aires. Yet Holm was defending his gold medal when he competed Tuesday night in the high jump, finishing fourth after clearing 7 feet 7 1/4 inches.
 Donohue, who will run for the United States on Thursday in the 1,500-meter heats, is 5-7 and 143 pounds -- heavier than all three men on the United States Olympic team in her event. 
 Holway, who works for the soccer club River Plate, analyzed the variation in track events at the 2005 world championship in Helsinki, Finland. In general, he said, athletes in each event tended to have similar heights and weights. He said the greatest variability was among women throwers, perhaps because it is not as socially acceptable for women to take up the hammer throw or the shot-put. With fewer athletes competing, those who have less-than-ideal body types have a greater chance.
 Such competitive selection for elite athletes begins early, Malina said. Boys who mature early have a natural advantage, except for distance runners, who tend to mature late. Malina noted that maturing early was usually associated with muscle strength, speed and power. 
 Girls who mature late have an advantage because they tend to have more linear bodies, Malina said; they tend to be thinner, with longer legs and narrower hips. Those traits are an advantage in most women's sports. 
 But, Coyle said, ''you have to remember that every event is made up of different parts.'' Someone who has a physical disadvantage in one aspect of an event may be able to excel in another.
 Bolt's weakness is in the start of the race; he said that he and his coach were always working on it. He does not have the short, muscular legs that allow runners to burst out of the starting blocks and accelerate quickly. But he has an advantage later in the race because his longer legs let him create velocity for a longer period during each stride.
 ''If you can overcome your slow start, it is better to be tall,'' Coyle said.
 Bengt Saltin, a professor of human physiology at the University of Copenhagen, said Bolt was so fast that he suspected he might have a hidden, physiological advantage. The way his leg muscle inserts into the bone may give him what Saltin called a longer lever arm, and that could give Bolt unexpected explosive strength. 
 ''Fractions of a millimeter in the lever arm will make a difference,'' Saltin said.
 Holm, the high jumper, said that people had been telling him he was too short for the sport since he was 15. But he loved jumping. ''It was the only sport I was really good at,'' he said.
 And he is stubborn. ''If someone tells me, 'You can't do that,' I have to prove them wrong,'' he said.
 Being short, Holm said, allows him to run faster in his approach to the bar. And he is able to clear it, he added, by arching his body so he bends over the bar more than his taller competitors. 
 Holway noticed another attribute in Holm. He said Holm was less lanky than the other high jumpers, but the more powerful muscles in his lower body helped him jump higher. The ideal high jumper, Holway added, would look like Holm but be taller. The world-record holder for the high jump, Javier Sotomayor of Cuba, had that combination of traits, Holway said.
 Donohue, the 1,500-meter runner, is perhaps the most puzzling to exercise researchers.
 ''She runs like a big person -- heavily,'' Coyle said. ''There is less bounce in her step. She is kind of slow in reacting. She looks like she is muscling her way through the race.''
 To understand how she does it, Coyle said, he would have to test her in a physiology lab. He suspects that she is unusually economical when she runs.
 Donohue has her own thoughts on the matter. She says she knows she is large for a runner, something she cannot help noticing when she stands next to someone like her teammate Shalane Flanagan, who won bronze in the 10,000 on Friday. 
 ''My shoulders are twice as wide as Shalane's,'' Donohue said of Flanagan, who is 5-5 and 104 pounds. ''There is no way I would ever look like that.''
 But in the 1,500, she said, speed and strength are important, so she can use the extra muscle that comes with her weight to push her way through a race. She has been running since she was very young, she said, and has developed great endurance. She runs 80 to 90 miles a week and has never had a serious injury. 
 Winning the 1,500 usually comes down to which runner can sprint the fastest at the end. ''I have the endurance to get to that point,'' Donohue said, ''especially against smaller girls who may not have the strength.''
 Friedman, the cyclist, competes in track races, in which a bigger body and larger muscles can help. But thinner cyclists have the advantage of being more aerodynamic; their bodies catch less air, slowing them down less as they race.
 In the Madison race Tuesday at the velodrome in Laoshan, Friedman and teammate Bobby Lea, a 6-2, 170-pounder, placed 16th.
 Friedman said he was able to figure out how he compensated for his size in 2006, when he saw photographs of himself racing. He then understood why he had heard so many comments about his weird riding style. 
 ''I crunch up in a little ball far on the tip of the saddle,'' he said. His short arms allow him to ride that way. ''I get really compact,'' he added, noting that it was why his nickname was Meatball.
 But what works in track races will not help in road races, in which being heavier can slow a rider on hills and mountains. And Friedman, who also is a road racer, says he knows he has to take off some weight, something that is always hard for him. But he has a plan to change his body for the road racing season.
 ''I'm going to Colorado and I'm going to ride 100, 120 miles a day in the mountains,'' he said, adding that he would do that day after day for a couple of weeks. His goal, he said, is to lose 15 pounds.
 ''You can change a lot in two weeks,'' Friedman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At 5-9 and 170 pounds, Mike Friedman is shorter and more compact than most cyclists, but might not be as aerodynamic.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACKY NAEGELEN/REUTERS)
 Shannon Rowbury (5-5, 115 pounds) and Erin Donohue (5-7, 143) both run the 1,500.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH CLEMENT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); RUNNING (89%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); CYCLING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); KINESIOLOGY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SLOVENIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



490 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Hewlett's Printing Business Struggles

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest technology company, continues to roll along financially -- except in one traditional core business -- its printing business.
 The company reported third-quarter sales and profit on Tuesday that exceeded Wall Street expectations. But the company's struggles in one of its traditional strengths -- imaging and printing -- seem to be accelerating.
 Revenue from its printing division grew 3 percent, to $7 billion, in the third quarter, which ended July 31, over the period a year ago. Its commercial printer sales were down 5 percent, and consumer hardware fell 14 percent. A quarter of the company's total revenue comes from its printing division. Helping to offset the declines was an 11 percent increase in the sales of printer supplies -- like ink and cartridges. 
 On the hardware side, ''you're starting to see some slower growth in particularly the consumer business, as well as the commercial business,'' an industry analyst with American Technology Research, Shaw Wu, said.
 Mr. Wu said such slowdowns were the result of cyclical challenges rather than systemic ones. Hewlett-Packard, having saturated the market with new printers, will face periods when it must wait until businesses and consumers are ready to buy again. 
 He said he expected Hewlett-Packard to ramp up soon, though he noted that the company declined to delve deeply into the issue during its quarterly conference call. And Mr. Wu said that although he expected printer sales to rebound, ''it's easier said than done.'' 
 The decline in printing was among a handful of weak spots, analysts said, in yet another quarter in which H.P. exceeded Wall Street projections.
 In the third quarter, the company reported revenue of $28 billion, up 10 percent from the same period a year earlier. Wall Street was expecting $27.4 billion.
 H.P. reported net income of $2 billion, up 14 percent from a year ago. Excluding one-time charges, the company earned 86 cents a share, bettering by 2 cents the projections of Wall Street analysts.
 ''This is very good, given the prevailing economic environment,'' an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., said.
 As has been the case in recent quarters, H.P. -- which does about 68 percent of its sales overseas -- had much stronger growth internationally than it did in the United States. In its third quarter, H.P.'s sales increased 16 percent, to $11.2 billion, in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and 14 percent, to $5.2 billion, in Asia.
 But, in one of the other relatively weak spots in its quarter, Hewlett-Packard's sales rose only 4 percent, to $11.6 million, in the American region.
 The brightest spot for the company was its personal computer division. Notebook computer revenue rose 26 percent from the period a year ago, while desktops grew 6 percent. That lower desktop growth is consistent with a broader slowdown in the sales of desktop computers, which are giving way to notebooks. Over all, PC revenue grew 15 percent, to $10.3 billion.
 Hewlett-Packard is the world's largest vendor of PCs. But in the United States, H.P.'s rival, Dell, has been making an aggressive push into the retail market, and its market share is growing. Mr. Hurd sidestepped a question about whether H.P. was feeling pressure from Dell's entrance into the retail market.
 ''There's a ton of folks out there trying to compete on multiple dimensions,'' Mr. Hurd said, referring to other PC makers. ''We're doing the best to compete.''
 The other standout was the company's small -- for H.P. -- but fast-growing software division. Revenue was up 29 percent, to $781 million. Revenue for its Technology Solutions Group, which sells products and services to large companies and includes software, grew 10.6 percent, to $10.3 billion. 
 The challenges could grow steeper. Later this month, H.P. plans to close its $14 billion acquisition of Electronic Data Services, a provider of technology services.
 The integration of the companies will be a potential bump in what has been a consistent series of strong quarterly financial performances, technology industry analysts said.
 ''There are certainly risks and people are going to pay close attention,'' an analyst with Edward Jones, Bill Kreher, said. He added that he believed the combination of the companies would be a success.
 For his part, Mr. Hurd said H.P. and E.D.S. collectively had 500 people working on the integration. 
 ''The plan is going well, and we are confident in the benefits this business combination will bring,'' he said. Mr. Hurd said that he planned to address the opportunities brought by the deal at a meeting with investors scheduled for Sept. 15.
 Excluding the financial impact of the E.D.S. acquisition, H.P. projected earnings for the fourth quarter -- its current one -- would be $1.01 to $1.03 a share. That is up from previous guidance of $1 a share, according to Mr. Sacconaghi.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about Hewlett-Packard's third-quarter earnings misstated its sales in the American region. They were $11.6 billion, not million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINTING INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%); MIDDLE EAST (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



491 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: JAPAN: GLOOMY ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan delivered its bleakest assessment of the economy since the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, in a sign that a global slump sparked by the United States credit squeeze may be spreading too quickly for Japan to avert recession. The central bank left interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent in a unanimous decision on Tuesday. Its governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, above, said the bank's pessimistic assessment of the economy did not shake its belief in a recovery and signaled that the bank would keep its neutral stance. The statement announcing the rate decision described the Japanese economy as ''sluggish'' -- a term the bank last used in May 1998, when capital was fleeing Asia after an asset-price bubble collapsed the previous year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (88%); RECESSION (88%); INTEREST RATES (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



492 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Parties Clash Over Reinstating Judge

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Political order in Pakistan frayed further on Tuesday, the day after President Pervez Musharraf resigned, raising questions about who in the deeply divided civilian government would be in charge and for how long.
The instant deterioration in relations within the government became evident when Nawaz Sharif, the leader of one of the two major parties in the governing coalition, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, walked out of a meeting here over the restoration of the chief justice of the Supreme Court, who had been dismissed by Mr. Musharraf. He then headed back to his home in Lahore, a four-hour drive away.
Party members said Mr. Sharif had delivered an ultimatum to the senior coalition party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, led by Asif Ali Zardari, to consent to the return of the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, within 72 hours, or Mr. Sharif's party would leave the government. Mr. Chaudhry was among about 60 Supreme Court and other high court judges suspended by Mr. Musharraf last year. 
Even by the standards of Pakistan's hard-boiled and volatile politics, the public discord between the political leaders was surprising, politicians said, a sign that opposition to Mr. Musharraf may have been the strongest thread tying them together.
The departure of Mr. Sharif's party would greatly weaken the government -- at a difficult time in this volatile nuclear power -- but would not necessarily mean there would be new elections. Still, the situation did not bode well for future stability, with Pakistan facing a sharply declining economy and an emboldened Taliban insurgency that is fast moving past its sanctuaries in the tribal region and reaching into other parts of the country.
Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, on Tuesday played down the disputes between the coalition members, predicting that the coalition would hold because all parties remained committed to the political order in place after Mr. Musharraf's military rule. Coalition governments, he said, are by definition fractious.
''When they come together, there is bound to be disagreement on how to resolve certain issues and how to address certain problems,'' he said during a speech at the New America Foundation in Washington.
In an attack within the tribal region on Tuesday, for which the Taliban claimed responsibility, a suicide bomber ripped into the emergency room of the district hospital in Dera Ismail Khan, a town near Waziristan, killing 32 people and wounding 55, said the inspector general of the police in North-West Frontier Province, Malik Naveed Khan. He said there was some evidence that the suicide bomber was linked to Waziristan, the base of the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, Baitullah Mehsud.
The rupture in the coalition appeared serious, perhaps fatal, said Arif Nizami, the editor of the daily newspaper The Nation, and a friend of Mr. Sharif's family.
Mr. Sharif was ''unlikely to cave,'' Mr. Nizami said.
Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif have sharply disagreed over Mr. Chaudhry's reinstatement ever since they became coalition partners.
Mr. Sharif based his election campaign this year on the reinstatement of the judges suspended by Mr. Musharraf, including the independent-minded Mr. Chaudhry. A poll in June by the International Republican Institute, a Washington-based group, showed that 83 percent of Pakistanis wanted the old Supreme Court reinstated.
But Mr. Zardari has made it clear that he does not want Mr. Chaudhry back on the bench. He prefers the chief justice installed by Mr. Musharraf after he imposed emergency rule in November, Abdul Hamid Dogar, according to lawyers familiar with Mr. Zardari's thinking.
The lawyers' movement that grew around Mr. Chaudhry as the ultimate anti-Musharraf symbol in Pakistan regards Mr. Dogar as an illegal appointee.
Mr. Dogar comes from Sindh Province, Mr. Zardari's political base, and the two men are friendly.
The basis of Mr. Zardari's opposition to Mr. Chaudhry rests with a fear that he might undo an amnesty agreement that absolved Mr. Zardari of corruption charges, lawyers said. The amnesty, which applies to bureaucrats and politicians who faced corruption charges, was part of a package arranged by Mr. Musharraf when Mr. Zardari returned to Pakistan after his wife, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, was assassinated in December.
Members of the Pakistan Muslim League-N said Mr. Zardari, in failing to agree to the reinstatement of Mr. Chaudhry, was breaking a written accord made with Mr. Sharif 10 days ago.
The attack in Dera Ismail Khan was part of continuing sectarian strife between Sunni and Shiites, according to Mr. Khan, the police chief. A Shiite man was killed in the town on Tuesday, and as a group of Shiites approached the gates of the emergency room with the body of the dead man, the suicide bomber blew himself up, he said.
Many of the 32 dead were Shiites, Mr. Khan said. Two police officers were also killed, he said.
In another unexpected move after Mr. Musharraf's resignation, the chief of staff of the Pakistani Army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, visited the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Tuesday.
The spokesman for the Afghan military, Gen. Zaher Azimi, said General Kayani attended a meeting of the tripartite commission, a body composed of the military leaders of Pakistan, Afghanistan and the United States-led coalition and NATO forces in Afghanistan. General Kayani's presence was notable, not only because of its timing so quickly after Mr. Musharraf's departure, but also because it was believed to be the first time the Pakistani general had attended a meeting of the commission in Kabul since assuming command of the Pakistani military in November.
Relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan have been particularly tense in the last few months after the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, repeatedly accused Pakistan of helping Taliban fighters cross the border into Afghanistan in order to attack Afghan and NATO troops. The Bush administration has also publicly reprimanded the Pakistanis for their support of the Taliban.
Last month, American officials confronted General Kayani with evidence they said showed that Pakistan's premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence, had planned the suicide bomb attack against the Indian Embassy in Kabul in July. General Kayani is the former head of the agency.
There was speculation that General Kayani may have attended the talks in Kabul in response to the increased American pressure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistanis celebrated President Pervez Musharraf's resignation on Monday near a poster of Nawaz Sharif, the head of a major party that is now threatening to leave the governing coalition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALID TANVEER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: An attack Tuesday in the tribal region killed 32 people. Map details area of PAKISTAN. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); JUDGES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLICE FORCES (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); BAITULLAH MEHSUD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



493 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: What Did We Expect?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
If the conflict in Georgia were an Olympic event, the gold medal for brutish stupidity would go to the Russian prime minister, Vladimir Putin. The silver medal for bone-headed recklessness would go to Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, and the bronze medal for rank short-sightedness would go to the Clinton and Bush foreign policy teams. 
 Let's start with us. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, I was among the group -- led by George Kennan, the father of ''containment'' theory, Senator Sam Nunn and the foreign policy expert Michael Mandelbaum -- that argued against expanding NATO, at that time. 
 It seemed to us that since we had finally brought down Soviet communism and seen the birth of democracy in Russia the most important thing to do was to help Russian democracy take root and integrate Russia into Europe. Wasn't that why we fought the cold war -- to give young Russians the same chance at freedom and integration with the West as young Czechs, Georgians and Poles? Wasn't consolidating a democratic Russia more important than bringing the Czech Navy into NATO? 
 All of this was especially true because, we argued, there was no big problem on the world stage that we could effectively address without Russia -- particularly Iran or Iraq. Russia wasn't about to reinvade Europe. And the Eastern Europeans would be integrated into the West via membership in the European Union.
 No, said the Clinton foreign policy team, we're going to cram NATO expansion down the Russians' throats, because Moscow is weak and, by the way, they'll get used to it. Message to Russians: We expect you to behave like Western democrats, but we're going to treat you like you're still the Soviet Union. The cold war is over for you, but not for us.
 ''The Clinton and Bush foreign policy teams acted on the basis of two false premises,'' said Mandelbaum. ''One was that Russia is innately aggressive and that the end of the cold war could not possibly change this, so we had to expand our military alliance up to its borders. Despite all the pious blather about using NATO to promote democracy, the belief in Russia's eternal aggressiveness is the only basis on which NATO expansion ever made sense -- especially when you consider that the Russians were told they could not join. The other premise was that Russia would always be too weak to endanger any new NATO members, so we would never have to commit troops to defend them. It would cost us nothing. They were wrong on both counts.''
 The humiliation that NATO expansion bred in Russia was critical in fueling Putin's rise after Boris Yeltsin moved on. And America's addiction to oil helped push up energy prices to a level that gave Putin the power to act on that humiliation. This is crucial backdrop. 
 Nevertheless, today we must support all diplomatic efforts to roll back the Russian invasion of Georgia. Georgia is a nascent free-market democracy, and we can't just watch it get crushed. But we also can't refrain from noting that Saakashvili's decision to push his troops into Tskhinvali, the heart of Georgia's semiautonomous pro-Russian enclave of South Ossetia, gave Putin an easy excuse to exercise his iron fist. 
 As The Washington Post's longtime Russia watcher Michael Dobbs noted: ''On the night of Aug. 7 ..., Saakashvili ordered an artillery barrage against Tskhinvali and sent an armored column to occupy the town. He apparently hoped that Western support would protect Georgia from major Russian retaliation, even though Russian 'peacekeepers' were almost certainly killed or wounded in the Georgian assault. It was a huge miscalculation.''
 And as The Economist magazine also wrote, ''Saakashvili is an impetuous nationalist.'' His thrust into South Ossetia ''was foolish and possibly criminal. But unlike Putin, he has led his country in a broadly democratic direction, curbed corruption and presided over rapid economic growth that has not relied, as Russia's mostly does, on high oil and gas prices.''
 That is why the gold medal for brutishness goes to Putin. Yes, NATO expansion was foolish. Putin exploited it to choke Russian democracy. But now, petro-power-grabbing has gone to his head -- whether it's invading Georgia, bullying Western financiers and oil companies working in Russia, or using Russia's gas supplies to intimidate its neighbors.
 If it persists, this behavior will push every Russian neighbor to seek protection from Moscow and will push the Europeans to redouble their efforts to find alternatives to Russian oil and gas. This won't happen overnight, but in time it will stretch Russia's defenses and lead it to become more isolated, more insecure and less wealthy.
 For all these reasons, Russia would be wise to reconsider Putin's Georgia gambit. If it does, we would be wise to reconsider where our NATO/Russia policy is taking us -- and whether we really want to spend the 21st century containing Russia the same way we spent much of the 20th containing the Soviet Union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



494 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Reach Agreement To Cut Spending by $1 Billion

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson persuaded lawmakers to cut spending by $1 billion over the next year and a half, as legislators took the rare step Tuesday of returning to the capital in the late summer to re-open a budget they passed in April. 
 While Mr. Paterson was not able to trim the budget as deeply as he said he wanted, he still got more than many had expected, especially for an election year. 
 The deal reached Tuesday night includes cuts in aid to hospitals that will probably be in excess of $200 million over the next 18 months, when federal matching funds are included, legislative leaders said. 
 Aid to a number of local programs is to be cut, as well as to the City University of New York. Lawmakers are also forgoing $50 million they had set aside to spread around their districts for favored pet projects. Many of the cuts will actually slow the rate of growth in spending in various programs, rather than reduce spending. 
 Because the deal was struck so late, the lengthy bill was still being printed at 10:30 p.m. Assembly leaders said they would stay the night and pass the bill, while the Senate planned to return on Wednesday morning to pass the measure. 
 Mr. Paterson had called the Legislature back for what he called an emergency economic session; the Legislature's regular session ended in late June. The governor has been sounding the alarm in recent weeks, saying that the state faces a potentially disastrous financial outlook because of the struggles of Wall Street and the nation's broader economic woes. 
 Fully a fifth of the state's revenue comes from Wall Street, and the credit crisis that has gripped the investment banking industry has been weighing heavily on the state's tax revenues.
 ''I'm asking them to do something that's unprecedented, go into an existing budget and cut it without using taxes, and cut it to some proportion higher than it's been cut before,'' the governor, a Democrat, said in comments to reporters before continuing talks with the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos.
 Lawmakers had initially been resistant and many said the governor was overdramatizing the depth of the state's fiscal condition. Ron Canestrari, an upstate Democrat and majority leader of the Assembly, said ''I'm surprised that we did as much as we did. I thought it would not be this productive.''
 ''I wasn't this optimistic last week when this was all announced. I thought both the timing and the content would be difficult,'' he said.
 Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Binghamton Republican and the deputy majority leader of his house, said that the cuts hit ''every area that we could find that we believed could absorb some pain.''
 ''I think you'll see obviously there are going to be some folks who aren't happy, but we did the best we could,'' he added. 
 The issue of how to cut health care funding -- which represents the second-largest piece of the state budget behind education -- was one of the major sticking points that held up negotiations on Tuesday night, lawmakers briefed on the talks said. Funding levels for hospitals proved particularly difficult to resolve because the governor's plan called for greater cuts than the health care industry and many lawmakers wanted. 
 ''I think it was a pragmatic approach by the hospitals to avoid potentially harmful cuts,'' said Senator Kemp Hannon, chairman of the Senate Health Committee. ''In the end, I think it all worked out.''
 Some prominent interest groups were not as pleased with the outcome.
 ''The cuts that were enacted will still inflict real pain on health care providers, health care workers, and the New Yorkers they serve,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
 Over all, the cuts are relatively modest in a budget of about $122 billion when the state is facing a projected three-year, $26.2 billion deficit. 
 Still, it is relatively rare for lawmakers to agree to re-open a budget deal after it has been signed into law. The governor had sought $600 million worth of cuts for the current fiscal year, which began April 1, and more than a billion dollars in reductions for next year. The sides agreed to cuts in excess of $400 million for the current year and roughly $600 million next year, Mr. Canestrari said. 
 While negotiations continued among the governor and legislative leaders over the budget, there was other legislative action -- and notable inaction -- during the day. The Democrat-led Assembly refused to take up a measure backed by the governor and Senate Republicans that would have imposed a mandatory ceiling on school property tax increases. 
 The measure was vociferously opposed by the state teachers' union as well as the labor-backed Working Families Party, an influential third party which was part of a coalition that mounted a seven-figure advertising campaign against the proposal. 
 Instead, the Assembly passed a bill that would increase taxes on the wealthiest New Yorkers and provide tax credits for middle-class homeowners. It was supported by the Working Families Party. ''I'm disappointed that they did not take action on the cap today,'' said Thomas R. Suozzi, the executive of Nassau County, who was chairman of a state commission on property taxes. ''It's a missed opportunity.''
 Mr. Silver said his house's plan would ''deliver true income-based tax relief to New Yorkers who rent their homes or own a house, co-op or condominium.''
 The governor has said increasing taxes on the wealthy should be a last resort. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson at the Capitol on Tuesday before a special session of the Legislature that he convened to cut spending.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (76%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



495 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Ads In Key States Go on Attack

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Orlando, Fla.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama has started a sustained and hard-hitting advertising campaign against Senator John McCain in states that will be vital this fall, painting Mr. McCain in a series of commercials as disconnected from the economic struggles of the middle class.
 Mr. Obama has begun the drive with little fanfare, often eschewing the modern campaign technique of unveiling new spots for the news media before they run in an effort to win added (free) attention. Mr. Obama, whose candidacy has been built in part on a promise to transcend traditional politics, is running the negative commercials on local stations even as he runs generally positive spots nationally, during prime-time coverage of the Olympics.
 The negative spots reflect the sharper tone Mr. Obama has struck in recent days on the stump as he heads into his party's nominating convention in Denver next week, and seem to address the anxiety among some Democrats that Mr. Obama has not answered a volley of attacks by Mr. McCain with enough force. 
 ''If you can go quietly negative, that's what he's done; I think the perception is that he's still running the positive campaign,'' said Evan Tracey, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group of TNS Media Intelligence, which monitors political advertising. ''It's a pretty smart, high-low, good cop/bad cop strategy.''
 In Philadelphia; East Lansing, Mich.; Green Bay, Wis.; and at least five other major cities, Mr. Obama is heavily showing an advertisement contrasting a statement by Mr. McCain that ''we have had a pretty good, prosperous time with low unemployment,'' with appearances by people making statements like, ''The prices of gas are up; the prices of milk are up.'' 
 Mr. McCain's statement was from a debate in January, before the economy took several turns for the worse, and did not include the senator's acknowledgment of ''a rough patch.'' Mr. McCain has since run an advertisement going so far as to say, ''We're worse off than we were four years ago.''
 In Des Moines; Tampa, Fla.; Paducah, Ky., and at least 10 other cities, Mr. Obama is running a spot for a mock book, ''Economics'' by John McCain: ''Support George Bush 95 percent of the time; keep spending $10 billion a month for the war in Iraq.'' 
 On Sunday alone, Mr. Obama's campaign spent nearly $400,000 to run those two spots more than 600 times, accounting for roughly two thirds of the commercials he ran that day, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group. 
 Nearly 85 percent of Mr. McCain's 650 spots that day featured attacks against Mr. Obama, according to the service, which reports that Mr. Obama has spent $48 million on advertisements in the last two months and that Mr. McCain has spent $34 million, with the Republican National Committee spending another $3 million. 
 Until recently Mr. Obama had primarily run positive commercials promoting his vision, and his latest offensive is his first major volley of spots against Mr. McCain that was not in response to an attack from him or the Republican Party.
 All told, Mr. Obama's campaign has released at least six television commercials and two radio spots against Mr. McCain in the past two weeks, all of them with an overwhelmingly economic message and some tailored to issues in specific states. 
 The strategy is in keeping with predictions from strategists in both parties this summer that Mr. Obama would eventually press his financial advantage over Mr. McCain by running a more positive set of commercials on national broadcast television and a concurrent, harder-hitting set of spots in the states. 
 ''It's 'game on, the money's in the bank, we're going to have a huge financial advantage, let the McCain campaign chase us around the country, if they can find us,' '' said Steve McMahon, a Democratic advertising strategist. 
 Mr. Obama has complemented his advertising this week with a newly aggressive tone on the stump. Campaigning in California and Florida in the last few days, he has criticized Mr. McCain as challenging his patriotism, for saying Iraqis would greet Americans as ''liberators'' in 2003, and as embracing a negative brand of politics in general.
 But Mr. Obama's advertising has increasingly included spots that, like those from Mr. McCain, have been called negative and misleading by independent media analysts like FactCheck.org, part of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Until last week, the organization had mostly focused on misleading claims by Mr. McCain. He has consistently misrepresented the particulars of Mr. Obama's tax and energy policies, claiming, for instance, that he will raise taxes on families making $42,000 a year -- a nonbinding resolution he voted for would amount to a $15 increase on individuals with such income -- and that Mr. Obama opposes nuclear energy (he does not).
 But in the past two weeks the group has criticized Mr. Obama's spots for linking Mr. McCain to a decision by the DHL shipping company to pull out of a hub in Ohio, eliminating 8,200 jobs there; for exaggerating Mr. McCain's donations from oil executives; and for portraying his general corporate tax break as specifically tailored to oil and drug companies.
 ''We certainly for a while were finding a lot more in McCain's ads to complain about,'' said Brooks Jackson, the director of FactCheck.org. ''That pattern certainly has shifted a bit.''
 Even if Mr. Obama's attack ads have so far not drawn much national attention -- in part because of the frenzied coverage of the vice-presidential selection process -- the spots have clear potential to undercut Mr. Obama's promise to remain above the fray of what he calls ''the same old Washington games.''
 Tucker Bounds, a McCain spokesman, called the strategy a ''result of his inexperience.'' He added, ''With a partisan record that doesn't measure up, Barack Obama's been reduced to a sucker-punch strategy, shirking his 'new type of politics' in favor of a more negative campaign.'' 
 But several Democratic strategists said the ad campaign reflected the reality of the race. ''They may understand that this race is a lot tougher than they originally thought it was going to be,'' said David Doak, a Democratic strategist, ''and they're reacting that way.''
 Mr. Obama's approach to the confrontational advertising is decidedly different from that of Mr. McCain. When Mr. McCain released his spot linking the popularity of Mr. Obama to the celebrity of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears last month, Mr. McCain's aides held a conference call with reporters.
 In several cases Mr. Obama's campaign has either not announced its new spots or done so only after they were noticed by news organizations. Bill Burton, a spokesman, said that the campaign had not intentionally sought to hide its advertisements, noting they are available on the Obama Web site and in heavy rotation in states. 
 ''We don't have a secret message,'' Mr. Burton said. ''It's a crystal clear one.'' 
 He stood by the accuracy of the spots.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama arrived Tuesday at the Sheraton hotel in Raleigh, N.C., creating a camera-worthy moment for onlookers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
 New Obama campaign advertisements criticize Senator John McCain for his energy policies and link him to President Bush. (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); MILK (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (54%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (52%); TAMPA, FL, USA (52%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



496 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: McCain Takes Case For Drilling To the Gulf

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JOHN M. BRODER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from New Orleans, and John M. Broder from Orlando, Fla.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain finally made it to an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico on Tuesday morning for a tour and photographs that his campaign hoped would be worth, if not 1,000 words, then at least two -- ''drill now,'' Mr. McCain's mantra in recent weeks. 
 Senator Barack Obama spent his morning in Orlando, Fla., striking back at Mr. McCain in a speech to a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention that accused Mr. McCain of being a lot of talk and little else. 
 ''If we think that we can secure our country by just talking tough without acting tough and smart, then we will misunderstand this moment and miss its opportunities,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd.
 As the two men headed into the final stretch before the Democratic and Republican conventions, their campaign appearances were overshadowed by the intense speculation surrounding their choice of running mates. Mr. Obama was expected to announce his choice this week, possibly Friday. Mr. McCain was expected to announce his choice in the last few days of this month, shortly after the Democrats meet in Denver.
 But they both sped through their campaign days and refused to entertain questions about their choices.
 Mr. McCain used his appearance on the rig, 150 miles south of New Orleans and 200 feet above the water, to sound his call for more offshore drilling as a way to fight this summer's record high gas prices, even though it will take an estimated five to seven years for new drilling to affect American consumers.
 ''Americans across our country are hurting because of the cost of energy,'' Mr. McCain said on the rig, after an hour-and-15-minute helicopter flight from Kenner, La., a suburb of New Orleans. ''Gas prices are through the roof. Energy costs have seeped into our grocery bills, making it more expensive to feed our families. And now, as people prepare for the winter, they are going to be hit with higher costs for home heating oil.''
 Mr. McCain also took a swipe at Mr. Obama over offshore drilling.
 ''He has said it will not 'solve our problem' and that 'it's not real,' '' Mr. McCain said. ''He's wrong, and the American people know it.'' Mr. McCain added that the oil rig sat above a field of 160 million barrels of oil and was capable of producing 55,000 barrels of oil daily.
 Despite the urgency that Mr. McCain attached to the problem, Democrats noted that he had missed every vote on a 2007 energy bill that increased fuel economy standards for the first time in three decades. Mr. McCain also missed all eight votes on a renewable energy bill that was defeated last month.
 In Orlando, Mr. Obama appeared before the veterans a day after Mr. McCain, who had described him as advocating a policy of defeat in Iraq and had suggested that he had put personal ambition before the interests of the country. 
 ''If we think that we can use the same partisan politics where we just challenge our opponent's patriotism to win an election, then the American people will lose,'' Mr. Obama said, in tough remarks delivered largely without passion. ''The times are too serious for this kind of politics. The calamity left behind by the last eight years is too great.''
 Mr. Obama received a polite but not enthusiastic response from the estimated 3,000 veterans assembled in a cavernous convention hall. Many seats were empty because a number of veterans left Orlando ahead of the advancing tropical storm, Fay.
 Mr. Obama said that he and Mr. McCain had genuine differences about the course of the war in Iraq and the place of the United States in the world, but he said those were legitimate subjects for debate rather than personal vitriol.
 ''Let me be clear,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I will let no one question my love of this country. I love America, so do you, and so does John McCain. When I look out at this audience, I see people of different political views. You are Democrats and Republicans and independents. But you all served together and fought together and bled together under the same proud flag. You did not serve a red America or a blue America, you served the United States of America.''
 That passage received the warmest applause of his 30-minute address. 
 Mr. Obama also dropped into his speech the name of one of the purported front-runners to be his vice-presidential running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., who returned Monday from a weekend trip to the Georgian capital, Tbilisi. Mr. Obama endorsed Mr. Biden's call to provide $1 billion in reconstruction aide for the people of Georgia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, second from left, with Joe St. Ann on Tuesday on a tour of the Chevron Genesis oil rig platform in the Gulf of Mexico south of New Orleans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



497 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Names Lawyer, an Ex-Lobbyist, to M.T.A.'s Board

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson on Tuesday appointed a Staten Island lawyer and former lobbyist to the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 The lawyer, Allen P. Cappelli, a longtime Democratic political operative, worked as the campaign manager for Carl C. McCall during his unsuccessful campaign for governor in 2002. 
 Mr. Cappelli, 53, was also a political adviser to the former Bronx borough president Fernando Ferrer, and was his communications director from 1998 to 2002. Before that, he was appointed to several posts by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, including director of the state ombudsman's office, and was a top campaign aide to Mr. Cuomo during his losing bid for re-election in 1994.
 Mr. Cappelli now works as a criminal defense lawyer, with an office on Staten Island. Until last year, he was also a lobbyist, representing clients in the real estate development industry, including the Building Industry Association of New York. Mr. Cappelli said he gave up lobbying at the end of last year to concentrate on his law practice. 
 The State Senate, which is meeting this week in special session, approved Mr. Cappelli's appointment on Tuesday, hours after the governor nominated him. 
 Mr. Cappelli will finish out the six-year term of Francis H. Powers, a board member who died in June. The term expires on June 30, 2009. The authority's board has 17 voting members and 6 nonvoting members who represent organized labor and transit and commuter rail riders. Board members are not paid.
 Mr. Powers, too, was from Staten Island, and while there is no requirement that the borough have a representative on the board, Mr. Cappelli said that Democratic leaders there had recommended him to the governor. 
 ''I'm a resident of Staten Island, which has long been underserved by the M.T.A., and have witnessed firsthand many of the difficulties facing commuters in the county and the region,'' Mr. Cappelli said in an interview. 
 He said that he was familiar with the authority from his many years in government. 
 ''I have been very mistrustful of the M.T.A. as an agency,'' he said. ''Dealing with straphanger groups and commuter groups over the years, and citizens with their complaints -- whether it be with unsafe conditions, cleanliness issues, cost of the system, increases in fares -- I've become very skeptical of the M.T.A.'s operations.'' 
 But Mr. Cappelli said he was not familiar enough with the authority's finances to say whether he would support a fare increase that the authority has proposed for next year as it grapples with a financial crisis. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Wednesday about the appointment of Allen P. Cappelli, a Staten Island lawyer, to the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority misstated the name of the 2002 Democratic candidate for governor, whose campaign was managed by Mr. Cappelli. He is H. Carl McCall, not Carl C. McCall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (53%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



498 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Outlook From the Bank of Japan

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
By Reuters
 TOKYO -- The Bank of Japan delivered its bleakest assessment of the economy since the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998 in a sign that a global slump ignited by the tight credit market in the United States might be spreading too quickly for Japan to avert recession. 
 Slowing global growth was hurting Japanese exports, the American economy will remain sluggish this year and a decline in commodity prices from July's record peaks may not mean the end of an era of surging raw material costs, the governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, said.
 The bank left interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent in a unanimous decision on Tuesday. Mr. Shirakawa said its pessimistic assessment of the economy did not shake its belief in a recovery and signaled that the bank would keep its neutral policy stance.
 The statement announcing the rate decision described the Japanese economy as sluggish -- a term the bank last used in its assessment in May 1998, when capital was fleeing Asia after an asset-price bubble collapsed the previous year.
 ''While we did say that economic growth is sluggish, the possibility of Japan's economy worsening sharply is slim,'' Mr. Shirakawa told a news conference.
 The scale of the worldwide slump triggered by the collapse of the mortgage market in the United States is driving trading in global foreign exchange markets. The dollar has rallied to its highest in seven months against an index of major currencies on bets that Europe and Asia will suffer more than investors had previously expected.
 ''We're not surprised with the B.O.J.'s wording that economic growth was sluggish,'' the chief economist at Barclays Capital, Kyohei Morita, said.
 ''What was more interesting was that it acknowledged that export growth was slowing. The bank has been saying all along that exports were in an upward trend, but now it has changed that view.''
 Some investors sold Japanese government bonds to lock in profits on the view that the bank's downgrade did not go far enough to signal the chance of a rate cut. 
 ''The B.O.J. showed in today's statement that the latest lowering of its economic assessment will not directly lead to a rate cut,'' the chief market economist at Mizuho Securities, Yasunari Ueno, said.
 The world's second-largest economy shrank in the second quarter as crumbling United States and European export markets hit factories, and consumers tightened belts to cope with high food and fuel costs. 
 Exports to Asian emerging markets weakened in June from a year earlier after sustaining growth in the face of a slump in United States and European demand.
 While a shrinking economy is its main focus, the Bank of Japan is on guard against rising prices.
 Annual core consumer inflation is around 2 percent and is expected to accelerate in coming months before slowing, the Bank of Japan said in the statement.
 Mr. Shirakawa raised a laugh at the news conference when he mistakenly said the bank had decided to keep rates at 0.75 percent, instead of 0.50 percent.
 Some media seized on the slip-up to speculate that a rate increase may be in the cards, but Mr. Shirakawa warned them not to.
 ''It absolutely does not suggest anything about my deep psyche,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); TRENDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); BONDS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



499 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Portraying McCain as Out of Touch

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
This 30-second advertisement for Senator Barack Obama, the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, is being broadcast in Indiana. It is called ''Fix the Economy.''
 PRODUCER Obama campaign media team 
 THE SCRIPT Senator John McCain (Jan. 10, 2008): ''I don't believe we're headed into a recession.'' Ed Rutherford, Morrow, Ohio: ''I think we're absolutely in a recession.'' Lauren Ahlersmeyer, Lafayette, Ind.: ''I sometimes struggle just to get essentials, you know, the milk, the bread, the eggs.'' Mr. McCain (April 17, 2008): ''There's been great progress economically.'' Stuart Morrison, Park Hills, Ky.: ''The economy is in a rut.'' Mr. McCain (Jan. 30, 2008): ''We have had a pretty good, prosperous time with low unemployment.'' Kelly Robertson, Elkhart, Ind.: ''The way the economy is, it is the bleakest of times.'' Chris Fisher, Wilmington, Ohio: ''I'm worried, I'm really worried.''
 THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with a clip of Mr. McCain at a debate in January, followed by the first of several cameos by residents of Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky expressing concern about the economy. Mr. McCain appears twice more, couched between voters, before the screen fades to black and the following message appears: ''How can John McCain fix the economy, when he doesn't think it's broken?''
 ACCURACY The Obama campaign uses three short quotes by Mr. McCain from several months ago, before the economy greatly soured, and leaves out the context of his remarks, which in each case indicates that he has a more nuanced view of the economy. For example, while Mr. McCain said at a debate in January that he did not believe a recession was imminent, he also noted that the country was in ''a rough patch.'' In two other cases, the advertisement uses only a slice of Mr. McCain's comments while omitting full quotes in which he offers a more gloomy assessment. And as the economy has since worsened, Mr. McCain has increasingly acknowledged the economic hardships many Americans face.
 SCORECARD This advertisement, which came out in Indiana last week, tries to portray Mr. McCain as bullish about the economy while ordinary Americans are living through ''the bleakest of times,'' as one Indiana resident put it in the spot. But by using old quotes and providing little context, the Obama campaign does not fully represent the presumptive Republican nominee's public statements on the issue. Nevertheless, the advertisement's effectiveness may rest with who is delivering the contrast with Mr. McCain: not an anonymous announcer or even Mr. Obama, but real Americans who share their struggles on camera. If this is all that viewers in Indiana, a crucial battleground state, know of Mr. McCain's comments on the economy, it may convince some voters that he is out of touch.
 MICHAEL FALCONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008



500 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Retooling Chrysler

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- When the economy soured and gas prices soared, no auto company seemed in a worse position than Chrysler.
The smallest of Detroit's Big Three, Chrysler -- which also owns the Jeep and Dodge brands -- is famous for its big V-8 Hemi engines and rugged sport utility vehicles, and was woefully short of the fuel-efficient cars that consumers wanted.
As a result, its sales in the United States are down 23 percent this year, more than twice the industry average. And its market share, as high as 13 percent in 2007, fell below 9 percent last month.
Adding to its difficulties, Chrysler is still recovering from a painful divorce a year ago from its German partner, Daimler, and is in the midst of a huge restructuring under its new owner, Cerberus Capital Management. 
With all Chrysler's problems, the industry has been rife with speculation about whether Cerberus would decide it had made an ill-timed bet and sell the company.
But top Chrysler executives say they are determined to fix the company, and Cerberus executives say they will get the chance.
Their plan hinges on a wave of new offerings beginning in 2010, and a mix of cars better suited to the times, to help spur another comeback for a company with a long history of them.
''Our job here is to run this company,'' Chrysler's chairman, Robert L. Nardelli, said in a rare interview. ''Cerberus down the road will decide what strategic alternatives they intend to pursue.''
For their part, Cerberus executives say they have a decade-long horizon for making their $7.4 billion investment pay off.
''Our market share is not really relevant this early in the game,'' said Timothy F. Price, a managing partner at Cerberus. ''Our objective is to make money here on a 10-year investment.''
Since Cerberus acquired Chrysler one year ago, the automaker has been a cost-cutting machine. It has announced the elimination of 28,000 jobs, sold $500 million worth of assets such as real estate and a California design studio, and cut shifts and plants that reduced its North American manufacturing capacity by more than a million vehicles.
Chrysler is not revealing its overall savings, and as a private company it doesn't have to. With limited access to financial data, analysts are skeptical of its overall health.
Chrysler cleared a critical financial hurdle this month when its auto-finance division renewed a $24 billion line of credit. The automaker had sought $30 billion, but reduced the amount because of ''conditions in the credit market,'' the company said.
But cash pressures are expected to continue. Analysts estimate that Chrysler will burn through about $4 billion in cash this year, and the credit rating agencies Moody's and Fitch Ratings both recently downgraded Chrysler's bonds further into junk territory.
The automaker has tried to become more transparent. Last week, Chrysler announced a $1.8 billion investment in a Detroit plant that will produce several new car-based crossover models off a new platform beginning in 2010. The company also is bringing out a small car built for it by Nissan Motor and a new version of its Chrysler 300 sedan.
And despite speculation that it would use a Nissan platform for its next midsize cars, Chrysler is developing those vehicles internally, according to Thomas W. LaSorda, a Chrysler vice chairman.
Over the last 30 years, Chrysler has periodically flirted with disaster, only to be rescued by breakthrough products like the K-car, the minivan and the Jeep Grand Cherokee.
''Historically, it's the cat with nine lives, but you have to ask yourself if they have any left,'' said Maryann N. Keller, a veteran industry analyst and consultant. ''The one thing that always bailed Chrysler out is a great product.''
Chrysler's United States sales fell to their lowest level in decades in July, when the company sold just 98,000 vehicles. Some of its most popular products of the past have been shunned by consumers. Sales of the Dodge Caravan minivan are down 26 percent this year, partly because families have gravitated to seven-seat crossovers offered by other manufacturers. Its onetime flagship sedan, the 300, has fallen 39 percent in sales, and the Grand Cherokee has dropped 32 percent.
Chrysler's newest crossover vehicles, the Dodge Journey and Jeep Patriot, have been the lone bright spots in the sales picture.
The company has tried to lure consumers back to its lower-mileage vehicles by offering guaranteed $2.99-a-gallon gas. It has also softened its macho image somewhat by doing away with its ''That thing got a Hemi?'' television ads.
The company's sales chief, James E. Press, a former Toyota executive, said Chrysler deliberately cut back on sales to rental car fleets and eliminated money-losing vehicles like the Dodge Magnum and Chrysler Pacifica.
''Those sales are vanity, not sanity,'' he said.
Mr. Nardelli, the former Home Depot chairman, conceded that neither Chrysler's executives nor its owners anticipated how difficult the market would be this year.
''It would be a misconception not to acknowledge that it's more challenging today than we thought it would be a year ago,'' he said.
Some of Chrysler's cost-cutting moves have been abrupt and unexpected. In June, Chrysler said it would close its minivan plant in Fenton, Mo., this fall and drop a shift at a nearby truck plant. About 2,500 hourly workers will be laid off.
The head of United Automobile Workers Local 110, Joe Shields, said he learned of the actions less than an hour before Chrysler announced them.
''It was the most off-guard I've ever been caught,'' said Mr. Shields, who last week led a group of 450 hourly workers to protest the decision outside Chrysler's headquarters in the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills.
One of the minivan plant workers, Linda Schafer, said the decision was a shock because the factory seemed safe during last year's national contract talks.
''They don't realize the devastation they're causing to families, to whole communities,'' said Ms. Schafer, who has spent 25 years with Chrysler.
The company is determined to ''right size'' its production, Mr. Nardelli said.
''This is just the plain reality of the industry,'' he said. ''It would be crazy to continue to build and park these things up again the fence like we used to.''
Cerberus declined to release detailed financial statements for Chrysler, but Chrysler said recently that it had earned $1.1 billion in the first half of 2008 before accounting for interest, taxes, charges and other expenses.
''Those numbers don't tell you much except that they apparently are satisfied with their cash flow,'' said David J. Brophy, director of the Office for the Study of Private Equity at the University of Michigan.
Mr. Price of Cerberus said Chrysler was meeting ''every financial metric'' and had a $9.5 billion cash cushion to carry it through the current downturn. By comparison, General Motors, which is more than twice the size of Chrysler, has about $21 billion in cash.
But Mr. Price said the grim economic picture had forced even more cuts at Chrysler than expected.
''Obviously, there comes a point where you're not able to make cuts faster than declining demand,'' he said. ''But so far we're doing a good job.''
One former Chrysler official, who asked not to be named because he continued to work in the industry, said the automaker had identified options called ''off ramps'' to raise cash should economic conditions worsen. One off ramp, the executive said, was to sell the Jeep brand.
Mr. Price declined to comment about future options, but discounted the possibility of selling Jeep. ''There are no plans to sell any of the company's brands,'' he said.
While Chrysler is streamlining operations and conserving cash, it is trying at the same time to expand alliances with other automakers.
Talks began early this year with Carlos Ghosn, the head of both Nissan and the French carmaker Renault, on possible projects. So far, the discussions have yielded agreements for Nissan to build a small car for Chrysler, and for Chrysler to manufacture a full-size pickup truck for Nissan.
But Mr. LaSorda, who is heading the alliance efforts, said there was no deal on a midsize car, built on what the industry calls the D platform.
''The D car is not on the table with Nissan,'' he said. ''That's work we're doing on our own.''
He said, however, a separate small-car deal was on track with the Chinese automaker Chery, and discussions were continuing on potential ventures with companies in Russia, India and elsewhere.
The transition after nine years with Daimler has been one of the most difficult periods in Chrysler's checkered history.
As a division of Daimler, Chrysler gave up its autonomy. Even when it made plans for the American market, those decisions were often second-guessed or overruled by German executives.
Now, Chrysler's new leaders are settling in for what appears to be the long haul.
Mr. Press recently bought a home near Detroit and moved his family there from New York. After living in a hotel for a year, Mr. Nardelli is also looking for a house in the area.
And Mr. Nardelli is spending time teaching leadership courses to Chrysler's top 300 officials. The intent, he said, is to prepare them for the challenges he expects Chrysler to be facing down the road.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James E. Press, right, Chrysler's sales chief, talked with the chairman, Robert L. Nardelli, center, and a vice chairman, Thomas W. LaSorda, after a television interview in May. Last week, union workers were at Chrysler's headquarters, below, protesting layoffs at plants in Missouri.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
BELOW, BRANDY BAKER/THE DETROIT NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (Pg. C1)
In 1980, Lee A. Iacocca, then chairman of Chrysler, stepped behind the wheel of the first K-car. The line of front-wheel-drive compacts helped save the company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DALE ATKINS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The Dodge Grand Caravan, left, and the Jeep Grand Cherokee. Sales of both Chrysler vehicles have fallen severely this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LENNY IGNELZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); PLANT CAPACITY (61%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



501 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: China's Rise Goes Beyond Gold Medals

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
 China is on track to displace the United States as the winner of the most Olympic gold medals this year. Get used to it.
 Today, it's the athletic surge that dazzles us, but China will leave a similar outsize footprint in the arts, in business, in science, in education. 
 The world we are familiar with, dominated by America and Europe, is a historical anomaly. Until the 1400s, the largest economies in the world were China and India, and forecasters then might have assumed that they would be the ones to colonize the Americas -- meaning that by all rights this newspaper should be printed in Chinese or perhaps Hindi. 
 But then China and India both began to fall apart at just the time that Europe began to rise. China's per-capita income was actually lower, adjusted for inflation, in the 1950s than it had been at the end of the Song Dynasty in the 1270s.
 Now the world is reverting to its normal state -- a powerful Asia -- and we will have to adjust. Just as many Americans know their red wines and easily distinguish a Manet from a Monet, our children will become connoisseurs of pu-er tea and will know the difference between guanxi and Guangxi, the Qin and the Qing. When angry, they may even insult each other as ''turtle's eggs.''
 During the rise of the West, Chinese culture constantly had to adapt. When the first Westerners arrived and brought their faith in the Virgin Mary, China didn't have an equivalent female figure to work miracles -- so Guan Yin, the God of Mercy, underwent a sex change and became the Goddess of Mercy. 
 Now it will be our turn to scramble to compete with a rising Asia.
 This transition to Chinese dominance will be a difficult process for the entire international community, made more so by China's prickly nationalism. China still sees the world through the prism of guochi, or national humiliation, and among some young Chinese success sometimes seems to have produced not so much national self-confidence as cockiness.
 China's intelligence agencies are becoming more aggressive in targeting America, including corporate secrets, and the Chinese military is busily funding new efforts to poke holes in American military pre-eminence. These include space weapons, cyberwarfare and technologies to threaten American aircraft carrier groups.
 President Bush was roundly criticized for attending the Beijing Olympics, but, in retrospect, I think he was right to attend. The most important bilateral relationship in the world in the coming years will be the one between China and the United States, and Mr. Bush won enormous good will from the Chinese people by showing up.
 Having won that political capital, though, Mr. Bush didn't spend it. Mr. Bush should have spoken out more forcefully on behalf of human rights, including urging Beijing to stop shipping the weapons used for genocide in Darfur. 
 It's a difficult balance to get right, but China's determination to top the gold medal charts -- and its overwhelming efforts to find and train the best athletes -- bespeaks a larger desire for international respect and legitimacy. We can use that desire also to shame and coax better behavior out of China's leaders. 
 When the Chinese government sentences two frail women in their late 70s to labor camp because they applied to hold a legal protest during the Olympics, as it just has, then that is an outrage to be addressed not by ''silent diplomacy'' but by pointing it out.
 We also must recognize that informal pressures are becoming increasingly important. The most important figure in China-U.S. relations today isn't the ambassador for either country; it is Yao Ming, the basketball player -- and David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A., is second. The biggest force for democratization isn't the Group of 7 governments, but is the millions of Chinese who study in the West and return -- sometimes with green cards or blue passports, but always with greater expectations of freedom. China's rise is sustained in part by the way the Communist Party has grudgingly, sometimes incompetently, adapted to these pressures for change. 
 On this visit, I dropped by the home of Bao Tong, a former senior Communist Party official who spent seven years in prison for challenging the hard-liners during the Tiananmen democracy movement. The guards who monitor him 24/7 let me through when I showed my Olympic press credentials.
 Mr. Bao noted that Communist leaders used to actually believe in Communism; now they simply believe in Communist Party rule. He recalled that hard-liners used to fret about the danger of ''peaceful evolution,'' meaning a gradual shift to a Western-style political and economic system. ''Now, in fact, what we have is peaceful evolution,'' he noted.
 That flexibility is one of China's great strengths, and it's one reason that the most important thing going on in the world today is the rise of China -- in the Olympics and in almost every other facet of life. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); SPACE WEAPONS (60%); INFORMATION WARFARE (60%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGXI, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



502 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: The Second Coming of Khaki

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
ON Monday afternoon, as the ballyhooed new designs of Gap's fall collection by Patrick Robinson began appearing at its store on Fifth Avenue and 54th Street, a line of customers stretched well around the corner -- at Abercrombie & Fitch, that is, two blocks away.
 Fashion magazines have heralded the recent arrival of Mr. Robinson at Gap in reverential tones (he is actually called a ''megabrand messiah'' in the September issue of Elle), and the windows announce in big block letters that a ''New Shape'' is in store. But there has not yet been a seismic return of shoppers to a retail chain that stopped being cool around the time Abercrombie opened its doors with a reinvented brand.
 Inside the Gap store, a few dozen customers were trying on $58 waffle-knit cardigans and blazers made of fleece. But for a better picture, one could stand outside on the street corner for 15 minutes and count shopping bags: 6 from Gap, 27 from Abercrombie on Monday; 8 from Gap, 38 from Abercrombie on Tuesday. 
 Reinventing Gap, the nation's largest specialty apparel chain, has been fashion's equivalent of Merlin's stone for much of the last decade, as sales and profits have dipped, along with its image among young consumers. Mr. Robinson, 41, is the third designer to attempt to pull the sword since Gap began to publicly acknowledge its creative personnel in 2003, and the most closely watched because of his popularity with industry insiders and his finesse with casual American sportswear. His fall designs have generated promising reviews, but also concern about whether a single designer -- one with a mixed track record -- can revive a brand with 1,155 stores in the United States in the midst of an economic crisis.
 On the one hand, the company has continued to report weak sales, including an 11 percent drop last month in stores open at least a year, and on Tuesday, Brand Keys, a research consultancy, announced that Gap ranked last in customer loyalty. On the other, some retail analysts long critical of Gap's merchandising efforts and management choices have joined the chorus that is singing Mr. Robinson's praises.
 ''I just about died when I went in the store,'' said Jennifer Black, the president of Jennifer Black & Associates, a research company focused on the apparel industry. ''I don't know how traffic's been, but from an aesthetic perspective, I think it looks great. For me to be taken aback is kind of a big thing.''
 The clothes are indeed compelling. The trench coat and shirtdress styles and the muted colors -- a variety of grays, browns and purple plaid -- are at once basic and fashionable, a duality that could be either girly and pretty or androgynous in an Oliver Twist goes to a Nirvana concert sort of way. But will customers, especially those who look to Gap for jeans and T-shirts, get it?
 In an interview in the Gap showroom in Chelsea last week, Mr. Robinson said he could best describe his vision for Gap as one of ''optimism,'' keying into an emotion conveyed by the company's past advertising campaigns that spotlighted bright colors and made wearing khaki seem like a swingy choice. Having grown up in California, he recalled shopping at Gap stores and thinking how cool the white gallerylike spaces were. While he wanted to recapture that feeling, he said, the styles, fits and colors -- even the weight of the T-shirt fabrics -- all had to be changed.
 ''We can't go back and put women in big old heavy sweatshirts,'' he said. ''That was Gap in the '80s.''
 Throughout his career, Mr. Robinson has demonstrated a single-mindedness about image control, including his own. In 2005, when he was hired at Paco Rabanne, the French fashion house, he compared his intended makeover of that fading collection to Tom Ford's transformation of Gucci, a remark that proved foolhardy when the line was closed after three seasons.
 He had previously worked for Giorgio Armani in Milan and Anne Klein in New York and briefly made sportswear collections under his own label in the '90s. But his greatest critical success -- and public folly -- occurred in 2003, when he was hired to remake a lower-priced women's sportswear collection for Perry Ellis. His vintage-inspired designs were so well received by the press that Mr. Robinson lobbied the label's owners to reposition it from middle-market department stores to upscale retailers like Barneys New York. He was rebuffed in a dispute that spilled out into the press and most of the line was never sold.
 On the strength of that collection, Mr. Robinson was nominated for a Council of Fashion Designers of America award. But at the awards, the designer, who is married to Virginia Smith, Vogue's accessories director, was seated with Anna Wintour, a perceived slight to Perry Ellis executives, who had bought a large table of their own.
 Mr. Robinson resigned the next season. In retrospect, he said, the conflict ''was never a personal thing.''
 ''We just totally disagreed on the vision of the brand,'' he said, ''and they owned the thing, so they won.''
 In that regard, his career has had similarities with that of Mr. Ford, who left Gucci in a creative dispute several years ago. But at Gap, Mr. Robinson said, he is comfortable working within a large corporate environment. That said, he has continued to assert the need for creative control: last week the company dismissed its European design staff, adding the duties for creating lines for international markets to Mr. Robinson's purview. The move raised eyebrows among those who have wondered whether ego had caused his problems at Perry Ellis and Paco Rabanne. But Mr. Robinson said that the hoopla had not made any difference to the success of his collections.
 Gary Muto, the president of Gap's adult and body divisions, said Mr. Robinson's arrival at the company had revitalized its design staff, describing the difference as ''night and day.'' Part of the reason is that the designs are selling, he said, citing a deep V-neck shirt and pull-on skirt introduced this summer as an illustration of how classic clothes could be fashionably updated.
 ''Where we're going to win is with those items that are truly versatile, that a person can dress up or dress down and still be able to express their own personal style,'' he said. 
 Mr. Robinson has demonstrated that he is a versatile designer, and one who has learned when to let the product speak louder than the personality.
 ''Speaking honestly, when I was younger, I really wanted the fame thing,'' he said. ''It was part of the game of being a fashion designer. But that doesn't turn me on anymore. What turns me on -- my soul -- is making cool clothes and being part of a company where I can actually see the difference I'm making. I'm not just spinning my wheels and getting the clothes into five stores in America.''
 One thing that stands out about Mr. Robinson's collection for Gap is how similar it looks to his work for Perry Ellis, with loose popover plaid dresses, sleeveless wool jackets and cropped cargo pants in mushroomy grays, layered up with artsy knits -- clothes that fashion editors had clamored about back then but customers never had a chance to buy. Now anyone can at Gap, even those who have never heard of Mr. Robinson.
 ''It's definitely a major improvement,'' said Rie Cochran, a 21-year-old secretary from Marshall, Mich., as she left the Fifth Avenue store. ''It's chic, but still subdued.''
 Nevertheless, she walked out empty-handed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GAP'S MAN IN THE WHITE TEE: Patrick Robinson, who once designed for Perry Ellis and Paco Rabanne.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAGO AKII-BUA AND BRIAN JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 WOOLLY AND NOT WILD: Muted colors and classic styles exemplify Patrick Robinson's fall collection at Gap.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER LIVINGSTON)(pg. G6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (76%); BRANDING (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); YOUTH MARKET (65%); RANKINGS (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (94%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (94%); AFT (FRA) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



503 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan On Fire

 BODY:
The news out of Afghanistan is truly alarming. This week, Taliban forces staged two of their most complex and audacious attacks of the war. Nearly 100 insurgents killed 10 French paratroopers in an attack near Kabul. At least 10 suicide bombers mounted a coordinated assault on one of America's largest military bases, wounding three American and six Afghan soldiers. An earlier attack at the base killed 12 Afghan workers. 
 The number of United States and NATO casualties is mounting so quickly, that unless something happens soon this could be the deadliest year of the Afghan war. Kabul, the seat of Afghanistan's pro-Western government, is increasingly besieged. And Taliban and foreign Qaeda fighters are consolidating control over an expanding swath of territory sprawling across both sides of the porous Afghanistan-Pakistan border. 
 Let us be clear about why this is so dangerous. The more territory the Taliban controls, the more money it can raise from narcotics and black-market activities to mount an even fiercer challenge against the foundering civilian governments in Kabul and Islamabad. And the more territory the Taliban controls, the more freedom Al Qaeda will have to mount new terrorist operations against this country and others. 
 There is no more time to waste. Unless the United States, NATO and its central Asian allies move quickly, they could lose this war. The following steps need to be taken in the coming weeks. 
 Washington must finally make clear to Pakistan's leaders the mortal threat they face. The Army must turn its attention from India to the fight against the Taliban. Civilian leaders must realize that there can be no separate peace with the extremists. Sending American troops or warplanes into Pakistani territory will only feed anti-American furies. That should be the job of Pakistan's army, with intelligence help and carefully monitored financial support from the United States. 
 More American ground troops will have to be sent to Afghanistan. The Pentagon's over-reliance on airstrikes -- which have led to high levels of civilian casualties -- has dangerously antagonized the Afghan population. This may require an accelerated timetable for shifting American forces from Iraq, where the security situation has grown somewhat less desperate. 
 NATO also needs to step up its military effort. With Russia threatening to redraw the post-Soviet map of Europe, this is not time for NATO to forfeit its military credibility by losing a war. Europe does not have a lot of available ground troops either. But it needs to send its best ones to Afghanistan and let them fight. 
 Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, must rein in his government's rampant corruption that has all but driven his people into the hands of the Taliban and criminal warlords. The international community needs to provide more -- and more carefully monitored -- resources to build up Afghanistan's security forces and administrative capacity and accelerate rural development. 
 These investments will take time to pay off. But seven years have already been wasted, and unless such efforts begin now there will be no safe exit from Afghanistan for the foreseeable future.
 Afghanistan's war is not a sideshow. It is the principal military confrontation between America and NATO and the forces responsible for 9/11 and later deadly terrorist attacks on European soil. Washington, NATO and the governments of Pakistan and Afghanistan must stop fighting it like a holding action and develop a strategy to win. Otherwise, we will all lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (67%); CORRUPTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



504 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: All the Oil We Need

BYLINE: By EUGENE GHOLZ and DARYL G. PRESS. 
Eugene Gholz is an associate professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin. Daryl G. Press is an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College.

 BODY:
WHILE oil prices have declined somewhat of late, the volatility of the market and the political and religious unrest in major oil-producing countries has Americans worrying more than ever about energy security. But they have little to fear -- contrary to common understanding, there are robust stockpiles of oil around the globe that could see us through any foreseeable calamities on the world market. 
 True, trouble for the world's energy supplies could come from many directions. Hurricanes and other natural disasters could suddenly disrupt oil production or transportation. Iran loudly and regularly proclaims that it can block oil exports from the Persian Gulf. The anti-American rhetoric of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela raises fears of an export cutoff there. And ongoing civil unrest wreaks havoc with Nigeria's output. 
 Even worse, this uncertainty comes in the context of worrisome reports that oil producers have little spare capacity, meaning that they could not quickly ramp up production to compensate for a disruption. 
 But such fears rest on a misunderstanding. The world actually has enormous spare oil capacity. It has simply moved. In the past, major oil producers like Saudi Arabia controlled it. But for years the world's major consumers have bought extra oil to fill their emergency petroleum reserves.
 Moreover, whereas the world's reserve supply once sat in relatively inaccessible pools, much of it now sits in easily accessible salt caverns and storage tanks. And consumers control the spigots. During a supply disruption, Americans would no longer have to rely on the good will of foreign governments.
 The United States alone has just more than 700 million barrels of crude oil in its Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Government stockpiles in Europe add nearly another 200 million barrels of crude and more than 200 million barrels of refined products. In Asia, American allies hold another 400 million barrels. And China is creating a reserve that should reach more than 100 million barrels by 2010.
 Those figures only count the government-controlled stocks. Private inventories fluctuate with market conditions, but American commercial inventories alone include well over a billion barrels. Adding up commercial and government stockpiles, the major consuming countries around the world control more than four billion barrels.
 Some policy makers and analysts worry that these emergency stocks are too small. For example, they sometimes compare the American strategic reserve to total American consumption, so the reserves appear dangerously inadequate. The United States consumes about 20 million barrels of oil every day, so the Strategic Petroleum Reserve could only supply the country for 35 days. (Furthermore, the United States could not draw oil out of the reserve at anything approaching a rate of 20 million barrels per day.) This is why President Bush in his 2007 State of the Union address called for doubling the strategic reserve.
 But this vulnerability is a mirage. The size of plausible disruptions, not total consumption, determines the adequacy of global reserves. The worst oil disruptions in history deprived global markets of five million to six million barrels per day. Specifically, the collapse of the Iranian oil industry during the revolution in 1978 cut production by nearly five million barrels a day, and the sanctions on Iraq after its conquest of Kuwait in 1990 eliminated 5.3 million barrels of supply. If a future disruption were as bad as history's worst, American and allied governments' crude oil stocks alone could replace every lost barrel for eight months.
 Current fears about energy security focus on Iran. For example, Tehran could sharply cut its oil exports to drive up global prices. Of course, this would be the economic equivalent of suicide terrorism: oil exports provide more than 80 percent of Iranian government revenues, and a major cutback would wreck Iran's economy.
 It would also be futile because the industrialized world could easily replace Iranian oil. Iran only exports 2.5 million barrels each day. A coordinated release of reserve crude by the United States and its European and Asian allies could replace missing Iranian barrels for a year and a half. Iran is vulnerable; the West is not.
 Of course, we are told, Iran might be able to take Saudi, Kuwaiti and Iraqi oil off the market, too, by attacking oil tankers as they pass through the Strait of Hormuz, along Iran's coast. It's conceivable, but not likely. 
 Significantly impeding oil traffic would require a sustained military campaign. Dozens of tankers carry more than 15 million barrels of crude through the strait every day. The water is so deep that the navigable channel for supertankers is 20 miles wide at its narrowest point. There is simply too much traffic across too much space for the waterway to be easily blocked. 
 Countries have attacked oil infrastructure before, and the results were underwhelming. During the Iran-Iraq war, Baghdad and Tehran struck each other's oil terminals and tankers repeatedly, but they proved to be very resilient targets. Rugged structures and quick maintenance meant that Iran's Kharg Island terminal kept pumping despite repeated bombings. Tankers, which dwarf aircraft carriers, have thick hulls designed to prevent oil spills and, when attacked, proved to have few sensitive parts where a ''lucky'' hit could cause serious damage. They managed to keep the oil flowing through Persian Gulf waters throughout the Iran-Iraq war.
 Today, Iran has more advanced anti-ship weapons, and it could surely harass commercial tanker traffic. But it would be hard pressed to sustain an anti-shipping campaign sufficient to reduce oil flows drastically for weeks on end, especially in the face of an intense military response. Even if Iran were able to reduce oil flow though the strait by, say, 30 percent, global reserves could replace losses of that magnitude for more than nine months -- plenty of time for the Navy to counter Iranian military operations.
 Make no mistake, any major disruption -- from a war, a terrorist attack or a natural disaster -- would make prices jump until markets realized that the pipes feeding crude into refineries were not going to run dry. But recognizing the great capacity of global reserves to weather disruptions will go a long way to minimizing panic.
 Emergency reserves have their limits. They cannot free the industrialized world from the underlying economic fundamentals that drive energy prices. As the global economy grows, demand for energy will rise and oil prices may remain high. 
 Government-controlled stockpiles should not be used to try to smooth out short-term blips in global supplies, the normal variations that companies account for with their inventories and financial hedging. Public inventories are a blunt instrument designed to protect the oil market as a whole from major disruptions -- national strikes, hurricane damage, wars and attempts at geopolitical blackmail. 
 Paradoxically, our exaggerated fears over energy security have some benefits -- for example, they may reduce the United States' inclination to attack Iran. But they also have big costs. Politicians could be induced to try costly solutions for problems that don't exist, like President Bush's commitment to double the size of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Western leaders may also pay too much heed to an oil producer's saber rattling. And, finally, exaggerated fear may encourage oil-market traders to panic at the first sign of even a small disturbance. When it comes to energy security, let's not let fear get the best of common sense. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY TAXALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); RIOTS (73%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



505 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise as Fannie and Freddie Fall

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Wednesday as bank and energy shares rebounded even as investors dumped Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on fears that a government bailout of the companies was inevitable.
 A 14 percent jump in quarterly profit for the computer maker Hewlett-Packard helped lift the Standard and Poor's 500-stock index and raised hopes that overseas demand would continue to support technology spending. Hewlett-Packard's shares rose more than 5 percent.
 Expectations that an imminent government bailout of Fannie and Freddie would wipe out shareholders drove the stocks to almost two-decade lows. 
 But because any bailout would be aimed at saving the housing and mortgage market, shares of big banks rose. 
 Shares of the mortgage lender Wells Fargo & Company rose 4.1 percent.
 Energy shares also posted strong gains, supporting the S.& P. 500, with shares of Hess, the oil producer and refiner, rising 5.6 percent and ConocoPhillips up 2 percent.
 Oil gained for a second consecutive day, settling up 45 cents at $114.98 as concerns swirled about Russia's possible reaction to the erection of a missile shield in Poland. Also, Goldman Sachs reiterated its year-end forecast of $149 a barrel for crude oil in the United States.
 ''Going into the day, some reasonably good earnings gave us a positive bias, and also it seems to me that the commodity stocks, which have been pretty beaten up, are having a very strong rebound,'' said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer at North Star Investment Management in Chicago.
 ''But this may be just bargain hunting, as I haven't seen any economic numbers that would be driving this,'' he added.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 68.88 points, or 0.61 percent, at 11,417.43. The S.& P. rose 7.85 points, or 0.62 percent, to 1,274.54. The Nasdaq composite index increased 4.72 points, or 0.20 percent, to 2,389.08.
 The S.& P. financial index gained 1.67 percent. Wells Fargo shares rose $1.13, to $28.92, while Bank of America, also a leading mortgage lender, gained 4.3 percent, to $29.29.
 On the downside, shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac lost more than 22 percent each. Shares of Fannie, the nation's biggest provider of housing finance, plunged 26.8 percent to $4.40, while Freddie shares fell 22.1 percent to $3.25.
 Shares of Hewlett-Packard rose 5.7 percent, to $46.16, their best one-day gain in six months.
 Shares of Research in Motion, the BlackBerry maker, gained 3.4 percent, to $130.28, after Citigroup reiterated its buy rating on the stock.
 Hess climbed $5.55, to $104, while ConocoPhillips rose $1.60, to $80.85.
 Investors ''are finally recognizing the strong fundamentals that those stocks have, despite what the price of oil is on a weekly basis,'' said Michael B. Koskuba, portfolio manager and analyst with Victory Capital Management.
 Material shares also had a strong day, with the S.& P. materials index up 2.1 percent. Shares of Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold rose 7.5 percent after Morgan Stanley noted a declining spread between the London Metal Exchange and Shanghai copper prices, suggesting that a replenishing of Chinese inventories is near and bodes well for the company.
 But concerns about consumer weakness sent shares of big manufacturers down. Textron lost 3.6 percent, to $38.59.
 Bonds edged higher. The 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 101 20/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.8 percent, down from 3.83 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); COP (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



506 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Capitalist Dreams for a Growing Industrial Park in North Korea

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Su Hyun Lee contributed reporting.

DATELINE: KAESONG, North Korea 

 BODY:
The Kaesong Industrial Park is worlds away from the North Korean city on whose outskirts it sits. While the South Korean-run industrial park has modern factories and motorists in sport utility vehicles, the city of Kaesong is straight out of the cold war. Long stretches of joyless gray apartment blocks loom above empty boulevards, and loud red signs proclaim the victory of the workers' party. 
 Fences and vigilant soldiers separate the park from the rest of North Korea. That has not prevented South Koreans from dreaming of the industrial park as a capitalist foothold that might someday undermine this Stalinist state, making it the North Korean equivalent of Shenzhen, the special investment zone that helped begin China's free-market miracle nearly 20 years ago. 
 Despite its isolation and prisonlike feel, the Kaesong Industrial Park is booming with construction. The park's operator, a South Korean developer, Hyundai Asan, hopes to expand it into a minicity over the next 12 years, with high-rise apartments and hotels, an artificial lake and three golf courses. 
 By that time, the company hopes there will be about 2,000 factories here employing 350,000 North Koreans and producing $20 billion worth of goods a year.
 That compares with a manufacturing output of only $366 million in the first half of this year, according to South Korea's unification ministry. 
 In the six months through June, the flow of goods in and out of the industrial park accounted for 42 percent of the $881 million in trade between the two Koreas, the ministry said.
 The United States eased some sanctions against North Korea earlier this summer after the country detailed its nuclear program and destroyed the cooling tower at nuclear facilities in Yongbyon, but import restrictions remain in place, making the Kaesong park less appealing to large South Korean and foreign companies. Indeed, South Korea's own conservative president, Lee Myung-bak, provoked North Korea's ire by initially suggesting he would not honor his predecessor's agreements to expand economic cooperation.
 Despite all that, 72 smaller South Korean companies have already built factories here, looking to tap the North's supply of low-cost, Korean-speaking labor. So far, only one foreign company has come.
 The piecemeal brand of change is seen in the experiences of SJ Tech, a South Korean maker of car and cellphone parts that built a $4 million factory here four years ago. 
 The company's first North Korean employees had never even seen a keyboard, much less a computer, said Yoo Chang-geun, SJ Tech's president. SJ Tech has spent so much time teaching them things like machinery operation and management concepts that Mr. Yoo jokingly calls his factory ''North Korea's first business school.'' 
 But the North Koreans were eager learners, sketching keyboards on paper to teach themselves typing. Now, SJ Tech's 430 North Korean employees have learned enough to run the factory without South Korean supervisors. 
 In a telling sign, they have also changed their haircuts to look more like their South Korean colleagues.
 ''The North Koreans are like sponges,'' Mr. Yoo said, ''quickly absorbing everything we show them.'' 
 This is exactly the sort of result the South Korean government is hoping for. It has pursued investment and tourism in the North despite criticism from its biggest ally, the United States. Even Mr. Lee, elected in December, has lately indicated that he will back economic cooperation. 
 Supporters of engagement in Seoul say their long-term aim is to peacefully prepare the North for smooth unification with the wealthier South.
 For the North, the economic links have become a source of precious hard currency to a moribund economy that cannot feed its 23 million people. 
 The North earns cash by selling 50-year leases on the land in the Kaesong park. The park's operator, Hyundai Asan, also pays the North up to $100 a tourist on two sightseeing tours that it operates, one to Kaesong and the other to scenic Mount Kumgang in southeastern North Korea.
 Critics in South Korea and the United States say money from these projects, in the final analysis, bankrolls the lavish lifestyle of North Korea's leader, Kim Jung-Il, or worse, his nuclear ambitions. 
 But with evidence mounting that the increased contacts provided by the enclaves are bringing about even small changes, a few once stolid critics have come out in support of the South's engagement policy.
 ''When you are feeding a rat with poison, but you coat it with sugar, you are not really feeding the rat,'' said Andrei Lankov, a professor of North Korean history at Kookmin University in Seoul and a longtime critic of the regime who recently surprised colleagues by publishing an article supporting the Kaesong park. 
 ''When North and South Koreans can interact on a daily basis, it is a chance for the North Koreans to see with their eyes that their own propaganda doesn't make sense,'' he said. 
 The engagement policy has long enjoyed broad support among South Koreans, who largely view North Koreans as misguided cousins in need of help. 
 Even after the July 11 shooting death of a South Korean tourist by a North Korean soldier at Mount Kumgang, there was no public outcry to change the overall engagement policy, though Seoul has suspended the tour while safety is reviewed. In an apparent tit for tat, North Korea has ordered all South Korean nationals out of the enclave as long as the tours are suspended.
 Of course, most of the changes in the North may only be affecting people living near Kaesong, a city of 140,000 people. And it is hard to gauge change in a society as opaque as North Korea's, which prevents unrestricted travel and most communication with its people.
 For example, on a recent tour to Kaesong, the only North Koreans with whom conversation was permitted were guides and gift shop clerks. The tourists, mainly South Koreans, visited an ancient school and a waterfall aboard big buses that charged down Kaesong's empty, dusty streets without stopping. North Koreans could be seen peering shyly from the windows of apartment buildings.
 In the few conversations that were had, they adhered carefully to their country's official line on political issues, admitting that North Korea was very poor but blaming American economic sanctions.
 Still, at times, North Koreans seemed more candid than in the past.
 A few described how the South Korean-run industrial park was improving lives by paying its workers the equivalent of about $60 a month, three times the average salary in the rest of Kaesong. So far, the only foreign company in the Kaesong park is the German auto parts maker Prettl Group, which is building a factory. Two Chinese companies will begin operations soon. But most companies here continue to be smaller South Korean firms, producing low-tech goods, from frying pans to running shoes, largely for domestic consumption.
 The South Korean government, which spent more than $150 million subsidizing the park, provides low-interest loans and insurance to companies to offset the risks of investing in the unstable and still hostile North. 
 Mr. Yoo of SJ Tech said his North Korean employees' monthly salaries of $75, in contrast to the $2,000 he pays South Koreans, made investing in North Korea entirely worthwhile, despite any risks.
 ''We would have regretted not coming here,'' he said. ''I believe in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Kaesong Industrial Park as seen from Paju, South Korea. Its operator hopes to expand it into a minicity with high-rise apartments and three golf courses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WON DAI-YEON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Top, tourists view a miniature version of what the Kaesong complex will look like in the future. Above, Parkyeon waterfall in Kaesong, North Korea.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEOKYONG LEE/PENTA PRESS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Kaesong is near the border of South Korea. An industrial park is on its outskirts. Map details area of Kaesong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



507 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Figures Back U.S. View on Low Spending for Reconstruction

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON and JAMES GLANZ; Mohammed Hussain contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Internal budget figures provided for the first time by the Iraqi government suggest that it has spent as little as 18 percent of the money it has devoted to rebuilding the country this year, roughly in line with previous estimates by American oversight agencies, but far below the amount cited by the Iraqi government itself.
 Iraq's lagging spending on its own reconstruction has been the subject of widespread criticism as oil prices, the country's main source of revenue, have skyrocketed and American expenditures on rebuilding the nation have mounted. 
 This month, the United States Government Accountability Office said that in 2007 Iraq spent only 28 percent of its reconstruction budget and could finish this year with a cumulative budget surplus of as much as $79 billion. A large piece of that surplus is sitting in an American bank in New York, collecting interest from the United States. 
 Iraqi Finance Ministry officials provided the new figures to The New York Times in the hope of countering that criticism, saying they spent 57 percent of their annual reconstruction budget in the first half of 2008 -- a clear sign of improvement.
 But when the definitions in the accountability office's report are applied to those figures, the picture changes substantially. In fact, the rate of spending is less than a third of the rate claimed by Iraqi officials. 
 That vastly different conclusions can be drawn from the same set of numbers illustrates the difficulties of monitoring Iraqi fiscal policy, and helps explain why American and Iraqi officials in Baghdad have sharply disagreed with the American auditors on the rate of spending. 
 Whether critics of Iraq's reconstruction efforts are assuaged or incensed depends on how one interprets figures that, in some cases, contain errors and do not even add up.
 The figures, which apply through June and do not include the $22 billion supplementary budget passed by the Iraqi Parliament this month, report how much agencies have spent of their allocated budgets. 
 But spending can be defined in numerous ways. Iraqi officials, for example, define money they intend to spend as money already spent, an approach rejected by the American federal oversight agency that issued its own report on the issue two weeks ago.
 While American Embassy officials in Baghdad acknowledge that Iraq is still spending a small fraction of its reserves on reconstruction, they argue that the government at least deserves credit for spending more money than in the same period last year.
 ''I think that the proper measure is how much they're spending, not how much they're spending relative to the budget,'' said Charles Ries, the chief economic official in the embassy. 
 For reconstruction efforts, he said, ''they have enough money to keep going for two years-plus without any new budget.
 ''So the question is: 'How do we help them, or how do they help themselves spend more money in the current year and in the next six months?' ''
 But in an interview at his office in Baghdad's Green Zone, Iraq's minister of finance, Bayan Jabr Solagh, was more critical of the accountability office report, saying it did not accurately reflect Iraq's significant progress. He argued that the 2008 preliminary budget figures proved that Iraq spent 57 percent of its reconstruction budget through June.
 That figure, however, is not cut and dried. In the first place, the Iraqi math appears to be incorrect, since the calculation from which it is derived actually yields a spending rate of 59.9 percent.
 Moreover, the percentage the ministry cites takes into account both categories of money: what is actually spent, and money promised in what the Iraqi government calls ''advances,'' which, in most cases, mean letters of credit. These advances may not become real expenditures for years to come, and the amounts may end up changing.
 ''In this report, we added them together just to say actual expenditure as such,'' said Aziz Jaafar, an adviser to Mr. Solagh.
 For some ministries, particularly those with major infrastructural needs, advances represent a huge proportion of their spending. Seventy-five percent of the Oil Ministry's expenditures are reported as advances. Similarly, while $231 million in reconstruction money has officially been spent by the Electricity Ministry, none of it has actually gone out the door.
 Mr. Solagh said that the advances would be an enormous part of Iraq's spending in these transitional years, and that the sheer scale of them makes Iraq's current $29 billion surplus look inadequate, not bloated.
 ''Already we have a contract with Boeing, $5 billion,'' he said. ''We have a contract with G.E. to import new generators for electricity, around $2 billion. We are planning to build a refinery in Nasiriya and the other in Karbala; each one needs at least $4 billion.
 ''We have a shortage in housing, at least two million units,'' he continued. ''What is $20 billion? It's nothing.'' 
 In its report, the Government Accountability Office rejected these advances, calling them too ambiguous, and removed them from its calculations.
 With advances taken out of the equation, the Iraqi government has so far spent 18 percent of its 2008 budget. 
 But the more authentic figure may be even less than that. Both estimates -- from the Iraqis and the accountability office -- included expenditures from the semiautonomous Kurdistan Regional Government in their math. But Mr. Ries, the American Embassy official, said that the Ministry of Finance marked almost all of the money transferred to Kurdistan as spent, whether it actually was or not.
 If the budget for Kurdistan is considered apart from the rest, the percentage of reconstruction money actually spent by the Iraqi government drops to 8.7 percent.
 Mr. Solagh acknowledged that Iraq' ability to spend effectively, crippled by years of war, economic sanctions and sectarian violence, was improving slowly and that reconstruction would take years, if not decades.
 Frederick D. Barton, a reconstruction expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, highlighted the challenge. ''The government of Iraq,'' he said, ''essentially a rather newly formed government, is trying to spend more money than it ever had before when it was relatively established and a much simpler government to run, basically at one man's whim.''
 But, Mr. Barton added, the government was running a risk as oil fortunes piled up unless they were benefiting the average Iraqi.
 ''Is there any evidence that they're actually providing public goods?'' Mr. Barton said. ''Because expenditures by themselves, or the stated financial tables, don't tell you that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



508 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Articles Question Wide Use of 2 Vaccines

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Two vaccines against cervical cancer are being widely used without sufficient evidence about whether they are worth their high cost or even whether they will effectively stop women from getting the disease, two articles in this week's New England Journal of Medicine conclude. 
 Both vaccines take aim at the human papillomavirus, or HPV, a common sexually transmitted virus that usually causes no symptoms and is cleared by the immune system, but which can in rare cases become chronic and cause cervical cancer. 
 The two vaccines, Gardasil by Merck and Cervarix by GlaxoSmithKline, take aim at two strains of the virus that together cause an estimated 70 percent of cervical cancers. Gardasil also prevents infection with two other strains that cause some proportion of genital warts. Both vaccines have become quick best sellers since they were licensed two years ago in the United States and Europe, and are given to tens of millions of girls and women. 
 ''Despite great expectations and promising results of clinical trials, we still lack sufficient evidence of an effective vaccine against cervical cancer,'' Dr. Charlotte J. Haug, editor of The Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, wrote in an editorial in Thursday's issue of The New England Journal. ''With so many essential questions still unanswered, there is good reason to be cautious.''
 In her article, Dr. Haug says the vaccines have been studied for a relatively short period -- both were licensed in 2006 and have been studied in clinical trails for at most six and a half years. Researchers have not demonstrated how long the immunity will last, or whether eliminating some strains of cancer-causing virus will decrease the body's natural immunity to other strains.
 More to the point, because cervical cancer develops only after years of chronic infection with HPV, Dr. Haug said there was not absolute proof that protection against these two strains of the virus would ultimately reduce the rates of cervical cancer, although in theory it should do so. 
 Dr. Richard Haupt, medical director at Merck, called these concerns ''very theoretical,'' noting that continuing research and monitoring suggested that immunity would be long lasting and that the vaccine would not lead to problems with other strains. 
 Dr. Haupt added that cervical cancer was ''just the tip of the iceberg'' and that HPV caused a huge amount of expensive and stressful testing in developed nations that could be avoided with vaccination. 
 The vaccines, which require three shots for a complete series, cost $400 to $1,000, depending on the country and the fees for doctors' visits. Unlike older vaccines that save money by preventing costly disease, these vaccines cost health systems money.
 The second paper published this week, a study by Jane J. Kim and Dr. Sue Goldie of Harvard, looks at the issue of costs and concludes that the vaccines will be cost effective only if used in certain ways. In particular, the researchers say the vaccines will be worth the cost only if they prove to protect girls for a lifetime, and if current methods for screening for cervical cancer using Pap smears can be safely adjusted to reduce costs there. Further research is required in both areas.
 ''I believe the vaccine is a great advance,'' said Dr. Philip Davies of the European Cervical Cancer Association, ''but we have to implement it properly to get the benefits, and that hasn't happened.'' 
 In developed countries, Pap smear screening and treatment have already effectively reduced cervical cancer death rates to low levels. There are roughly 3,600 deaths annually from cervical cancer in the United States, 1,000 in France and 400 in Britain.
 Cervical cancer, like skin cancer, can generally be caught at precancerous or noninvasive stages and treated. Because the vaccine prevents infection with only some of the cancer-causing strains, Pap smear screening must continue even in those who are vaccinated.
 The Harvard study concluded that giving the vaccine to 12-year-olds would cost $43,600 for every ''quality adjusted year of life'' it saved by preventing a cancer death; that price would often be considered acceptable by health officials in wealthy countries, experts say. 
 Dr. Haupt said the study proved it was best to vaccinate early. ''It underscores the value of vaccinating preadolescent girls,'' he said, since the vaccine works fully only in girls who have not been exposed to HPV. 
 But if the vaccine were given to all girls and women up to age 21, the cost per year of life saved would be far higher -- $120,400, the Harvard study concluded. And if the vaccines prove to require a booster shot, as many critics believe, that cost rises to $140,000. In such cases it might make more economic sense to rely on Pap smear screening alone, the researchers said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (91%); CANCER (91%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (91%); CERVICAL CANCER (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); VIRUSES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); SKIN DISORDERS (72%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (76%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



509 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Will Help Borrowers At IndyMac

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The regulator that seized IndyMac last month said Wednesday it would help thousands of the failed thrift institution's cash-short borrowers repay their mortgages and stay in their homes, a model it hoped other banks and collection companies would adopt to stem a wave of new foreclosures in the nation's weakened housing market. 
 People who took out loans from IndyMac, which became one of the largest failed financial institutions in American history, will be able to seek lower-priced, fixed-rate loans if they can show they are delinquent or in default on their mortgages, the regulatory agency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, announced. 
 ''We hope to keep tens of thousands of troubled borrowers in their homes and avoid the negative consequences that foreclosures can have on the broader economy,'' the agency's chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, said.
 The plan will give troubled borrowers the chance to reduce their interest rates or principal payments, or extend their repayment periods. The F.D.I.C. is to mail modification proposals to about 4,000 borrowers this week, and to another 21,000 in the next several weeks.
 Ms. Bair has been an outspoken advocate of large-scale loan modification programs, and the agency's takeover of IndyMac, which it estimated last month could cost taxpayers $4 billion to $8 billion, has given her a high-profile stage to show they can work. The programs have long been controversial because they tend to raise conflicting interests among investors, borrowers and the banks. 
 The agency's plan is less radical than measures included in a housing bill passed by Congress in July, which allows delinquent loans to be refinanced into government-backed mortgages.
 Under that plan, a lender must willingly reduce the amount owed on a loan to no more than 87 percent of the home's current value. Also, homeowners would have to share the future gains in their home prices with the government. Many banks have been voluntarily modifying some loans. But consumer advocates and policy makers say more help is needed. 
 F.D.I.C. officials said they hoped the initiative would reassure investors, many of whom worry that changes in the terms of IndyMac's loans will force them to accept a steep reduction in the value of the bank's bonds that they hold.
 Historically, the agency has forced troubled borrowers to swallow harsh medicine when it took over failed banks, because it is required to find the lowest-cost solution for taxpayers. Analysts say this large-scale program may signal a shift in policy. ''Modifications generally have not been their norm,'' said Chip MacDonald, a banking lawyer at Jones Day in Atlanta.
 But Ms. Bair said she strongly believed that keeping borrowers in their homes was the optimal low-cost choice.
 ''By turning troubled loans into performing loans, we enhance their overall value,'' she said. Recent F.D.I.C. research has shown that sales of nonperforming loans to outside investors recover 32 cents on every $1 of book value, while sales of performing loans recover about 87 cents.
 Ms. Bair declined to provide any projections about possible savings or losses that could arise from the program, which is intended to maximize IndyMac's value. But she acknowledged that market conditions were harsh.
 ''This is a tough time to be selling mortgage assets. Period,'' she said. ''What we get in this market, we won't actually know until we market them.''
 The F.D.I.C. took control of IndyMac Bancorp in mid-July after reports that the mortgage lender had run into deep problems and stopped making loans set off a run on the bank.
 While IndyMac is the largest bank to collapse in the current credit crisis, analysts are predicting dozens of small bank failures in the next two years. If the F.D.I.C.'s plan works, analysts say that the IndyMac loan modification program could be a template the agency could use in other takeovers. 
 The program applies to mortgages that are now being reset at higher interest rates, including so-called Alt-A loans, made to borrowers who had little or no proof of income or small down payments, which IndyMac approved in droves.
 Borrowers who have defaulted on their mortgages or fallen severely behind on their loan payments will be encouraged to switch into a fixed-rate mortgage carrying an interest rate capped at 6.5 percent.
 But there are certain limitations. The F.D.I.C. is singling out borrowers of the 740,000 mortgages it owns and services first since modifying those loans present the fewest complications compared with those that have been sold or securitized.
 The program will apply only to mortgages for primary residences. F.D.I.C. officials said they were also working with certain home equity borrowers, but they did not have a similar, formalized program for them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); HISTORY (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); JONES DAY (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



510 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: In Place of Fatigues, Business Suits

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 MAJ. STEPHEN THOMAS began to consider starting a business in the year after he was badly wounded in Iraq and was being treated at a succession of Army hospitals. ''I was bored with nothing to do,'' he says. 
 Four years after being treated for the leg and jaw fractures and burns he suffered in a roadside attack, he was talking to an audience at the University of California, Los Angeles, about his proposal to build an events center for business meetings and social occasions in Huntsville, Ala., where he is stationed as a manager of equipment procurement for the Army's Future Combat Systems project. He plans to build the Venue, as he calls his proposed center, in the next three years and run it full time when he retires in 2011 after 20 years on active duty. 
 Along with 14 other military veterans, Major Thomas was participating this month in an Entrepreneurship Boot Camp for Veterans With Disabilities. The program was created last year at the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University and has been adopted this year by U.C.L.A, Texas A&M and Florida State to teach disabled soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines the skills needed to start and expand small businesses and help them find financing for their ideas. 
 In more ways than one, the veterans may have an advantage in entrepreneurship courses. In a recent study, the Small Business Administration said it found that the experience of military service strongly predisposed people to self-employment and business ownership. Repeated confirmations of that finding were demonstrated at U.C.L.A. this month. 
 Allen McAfee, 26, for example, was a Navy medic serving with the Marines in Iraq when he was wounded in 2004 and earned two Purple Hearts. He got out of the service last year and joined IO Environmental and Infrastructure Inc., a company in San Diego that cleans up polluted Superfund sites at military bases and other government installations. 
 ''I had no experience in business after six years as a nurse and in combat,'' Mr. McAfee said. But he said he now hoped to help IO Environmental, where he has become a partner, because he has a disabled veterans preference in government contracting. The company is bidding on major contracts, and Mr. McAfee says that if it wins awards, IO Environmental will need ''investments of some $200,000 in bridge financing'' to help with gearing up for expanded work. Mr. McAfee presented his case for raising that capital to his fellow veterans at the boot camp as well as to business school professors and local entrepreneurs.
 Another participant, Chihung Szeto, 31, said he led a company of 140 soldiers as an Army captain in Baquba, Iraq, was wounded and was awarded the Bronze Star. Mr. Szeto has a bachelor's degree in economics from the United States Military Academy at West Point but said he wanted to learn the techniques of business management. 
 ''Business is simply knowing people,'' he said. ''I learned leadership at West Point and with men in combat. I'll keep in touch with those people all my life. But I need to learn business management; that's what this program gives me.'' 
 Mr. Szeto manages sales of dental supplies in the Los Angeles area and, with a cousin in China, shares in a business that makes souvenirs and marketing novelties for the Los Angeles Dodgers and Angels as well as other businesses. He says he wants to expand ''by having personalized promotional items, pens and other gifts, designed here and manufactured in China.''
 Alfred E. Osborne Jr., senior associate dean of U.C.L.A.'s Anderson School of Management, said: ''These guys are smart. They understand that running a business is like being on a battlefield. You have to do everything you can to survive and achieve an objective.'' 
 Mr. Osborne is running the university's boot camp program with Elaine Hagan, who directs the Anderson school's center for entrepreneurship. The program is more than a quick study. Participants take three weeks of online courses at the start, then come to the university for an intense week of lectures, culminating with presentations of their business plans. After that, university faculty members counsel the students for a year to help them with raising capital and general business issues. 
 The boot camps have enrolled 60 veterans so far at the four universities, which pay for the program. At U.C.L.A., that is about $250,000, which Mr. Osborne said he raised from private donors. 
 ''We're going to have a small capital fund, almost a grant program funded by donors, to help guys get over the hump and drive home the message that folks really care about you,'' said Mr. Osborne, who was among the first to develop entrepreneurship programs for groups running health clinics and schools as well as minority groups that had difficulty attracting capital in the past. 
 Indeed, developing their own business may be ideal for veterans with disabilities, Mr. Osborne said. ''Many of these guys have medical problems that make it almost impossible for them to work at a traditional business. But if you own a business, we reward that as does no other country on earth.''
 Jeffrey Hopson, 39, is an example of a veteran trying to turn his disabilities into a service business for other veterans. A machine gunner in the Marines, Mr. Hopson served in Iraq and Afghanistan, was injured and has to go to Veterans Affairs hospitals frequently for examinations and treatments. 
 ''But I have to wait hours sometimes even though I have appointments. It takes my whole day,'' he said. So Mr. Hopson, a developer of Web sites before he joined the Marines, is devising an online service that can link veterans more conveniently to V.A. hospitals and to general hospitals where they can arrange treatments, easing the burdens on veterans and the hospitals. 
 At a Saturday session of the boot camp on Aug. 9, other veterans cheered Mr. Hopson's business idea. But they and Mr. Osborne said his challenge would be to create a Web site that could bring so much information about veterans and medical services together. ''You have a great idea, but a big job to implement it,'' Mr. Osborne told him. 
 Other veterans presented plans both ambitious and down to earth. Greg Murray, 24, a former Marine sergeant, said he wanted to raise $3 million to build a factory in Central America to turn banana leaves into paper, using an ecologically responsible process invented by an Australian. Shawn James, 33, also a former Marine sergeant who grew up around the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, wants to improve the technology of hybrid engines. 
 Alejandro Galicia, 40, an Army veteran, wants to expand BPI Plumbing, a business started by his uncle, to serve the military in the San Diego area. Rico Edillor, 47, a Navy veteran, wants to start a health-focused Asian foods business catering from vans. Christopher Mahoney, a former Marine sergeant, wants to open a Buffalo Wild Wings franchise near Camp Pendleton, in Orange County, Calif. 
 U.C.L.A., says Mr. Osborne, will offer another boot camp program next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alfred E. Osborne Jr., a leader of the business camp at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 Maj. Stephen Thomas pitching his proposal to build an events center for business meetings and social occasions in Alabama.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); VETERANS (90%); ARMIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); FUTURE COMBAT SYSTEMS (77%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (77%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); FACIAL INJURIES (73%); BURN INJURIES (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (70%); SUPERFUND (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



511 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing in Los Angeles: From Mansion to $47 Million Condo

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Candy Spelling, widow of the television producer Aaron Spelling, is downsizing.
After nearly 20 years in The Manor, a 56,500-square-foot French chateau-style home known for its size and extravagance -- it includes a wine-tasting room, a bowling alley, a silver room, a china room and a well-known gift-wrapping room -- she says she is ready for the next trophy property: a condominium.
''People say, How can you move from The Manor? There's no place like it,'' Mrs. Spelling said, sitting in the library with leatherbound scripts of every episode of Mr. Spelling's shows, from ''Charlie's Angels'' to ''7th Heaven.''
But a condo, she said, ''is no different than a house, maybe even better.'' 
Mrs. Spelling is the most conspicuous buyer in an ultraluxury condo market that is new in the sprawl of Los Angeles, where wealth and fame have usually spelled out ''estate,'' not apartment living. But real estate experts say a New York-style luxury high-rise lifestyle is creeping into the wealthiest echelons, fed by trends like people looking to own more than one home, foreigners drawn by the weak dollar to invest in Los Angeles, and new residential buildings being designed by celebrity architects like Robert A. M. Stern, Richard Meier and Jean Nouvel.
Mr. Stern designed The Century, the 140-unit building under construction where Mrs. Spelling recently bought the top two penthouse floors -- 16,500 square feet -- for $47 million.
That's $2,848 a square foot, if you're counting.
Los Angeles is becoming a more vertical area at all income levels as land for development becomes less plentiful and traffic congestion, and now high gas prices, steer more people to cluster around mass transit stations and more community-like sections, like downtown and West Los Angeles, said Delores A. Conway, director of the Casden Real Estate Economics Forecast at the University of Southern California. For 2006 and 2007 in Los Angeles County, condos sold better than single family homes, even as the market was dipping, real estate data shows, although sales above $5 million are still few.
Last year, 59 percent of new home sales were condos.
''The city is becoming more interconnected and growing up,'' Ms. Conway said. ''It's a major change in the landscape of Los Angeles.''
And competing to lure the ultra rich out of their grand homes and compounds is a new generation of high-end high-rises, with hundreds of units already under construction or planned that promise a higher level of services and more square footage than the typical luxury condo here, which usually sold for under $10 million. The new pampering, with prices to match, includes restaurants open 24/7, outdoor entertaining spaces and patrols by Israeli-trained security guards to foil the paparazzi.
''It's a field of dreams,'' said Stephen Shapiro, chairman of Westside Estate Agency in Beverly Hills, which represents one of the new condo properties. ''Build it, and they hope they will come.''
The Century, a project of Related Companies, the developer of the Time Warner Center in New York, sits on three acres of green and offers a 200-foot-long entrance driveway, ''meditation cabanas'' in the gardens, a wine storage and tasting room and guest suites for home offices or household staff. Units go for $3.5 million to $10.5 million and penthouses for $15 million to $29 million.
Not too far away, The Carlyle Residences, a 24-story crescent-shaped building by Elad Properties, owners of the Plaza Hotel in New York, will have 78 units priced at $2.9 million to $20 million when it opens next summer. Among its offerings are a floor dedicated to staff quarters and hedges monitored by security cameras.
''This is Los Angeles, and the paparazzi problem is so prevalent here,'' explained Jill Eisenstadt, a spokeswoman for the project.
At least six projects are going up on the west side between Beverly Hills and Santa Monica alone, including hotels with a residential component. The Montage Hotel Beverly Hills, opening later this year, has 20 condos with hotel services, for $9 million to $32 million.
''We've had some terrific demand for them,'' said Alan Fuerstman, founder and chief executive of Montage Hotels & Resorts. ''You have all the offerings without the hassles of managing a large estate.''
David Mossler, the real estate agent who sold The Century's first penthouse last December, for $15 million, said the cachet of Mr. Stern was a big draw for his clients, a couple he refused to identify to protect their privacy. They had been looking for a second home in Los Angeles for two years but had not found the looks, privacy or views they wanted.
When he mentioned a condo, Mr. Mossler said, ''I think they thought I was crazy.''
''I told them about the high quality of the building and the security and the other amenities,'' he said. ''The light went on in their heads. They said, 'It's like a great hotel suite.' ''
For Mrs. Spelling, 62, mother of the actors Tori and Randy Spelling, the draw was being able to worry less about the upkeep of a house and being ready to travel more two years after the death of her husband, who was afraid of flying, she said. She is entertaining offers in the $150 million range for her W-shaped mansion, which the couple built in the late 1980s in the neighborhood known as Holmby Hills.
''I'm looking forward to seeing the world,'' she said. ''I'm now single. My kids don't live at home. It's the next chapter in my life.''
But going condo can be a challenge when your idea of downsizing does not mean shedding a dining table for 26, or the private pool and rose garden, all of which Mrs. Spelling plans to install in her new digs. Her solution was to combine two duplexes on the 41st and 42nd floors, with 4,000 feet just for the master bedroom.
Mrs. Spelling said she was shrinking her staff of 20 to less than half, three of whom will continue living with her and her wheaten terrier, Madison. She said she was talking to schools and children's hospitals about donating the contents of the library and most of her collection of Madame Alexander dolls.
But other things -- her china, silver, Impressionist art, wardrobe, wine cellar, ball clock collection and, yes, the gift-wrapping room -- are nonnegotiable, she said.
''I'm not giving it up,'' she said of the sometimes ridiculed wrapping room that she calls her ''hobby and therapy.''
''That's special to me,'' she said. ''I've always liked my packages pretty.''
Mrs. Spelling said she had also been mindful of her two grandchildren when designing her new condo, which includes a guest suite and pool cabana reserved for their use. The boy and girl are by her daughter, Tori, with whom relations have been rocky, or ''complicated'' as they both have put it. (Mrs. Spelling is completing a book deal that is not meant, she said, as a response to her daughter's best seller, ''Stori Telling,'' which portrayed her as cold and controlling, and which she claimed not to have read.) Despite tabloid reports about their feuds, and about Ms. Spelling's inheriting less than $1 million from her father (Mrs. Spelling said her children and grandchildren would inherit all the Spelling money eventually), Mrs. Spelling said she saw her grandchildren weekly.
As Mrs. Spelling extolled the 360-degree views and amenities of condo life, including a health club with on-call massage service, she said friends were already telling her ''maybe this is what we should do.''
But some developers say the ultraexpensive condo market is still a gamble.
''The premium condo market is unproven in Los Angeles,'' said Paul Habibi, a developer who also lectures in real estate at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''Amenities are certainly a draw, but are they any better than what they already have?''
Mr. Stern, the architect of The Century, which is going up in Century City, an area with a shopping mall, movie theaters, upscale restaurants and many entertainment offices, said wealthy Angelenos were ready for apartment living as long as they got ''that outdoor-indoor type of living.'' He said Californians, unlike New Yorkers, felt entitled to space, light and fresh air, which he translated into spacious rooms and big balconies.
''People are ready to live in a more urban way,'' Mr. Stern said. ''They're sick of driving everywhere.''
The bad economy and soft real estate market do not seem to be affecting the $5 million and up housing segment, brokers said. The Century, which will not open until at least the end of 2009, has sold half of its units, mostly to locals, said David Wine, vice chairman of Related Companies, the project's developer.
While the $2,848 a square foot that Mrs. Spelling paid set a record for Los Angeles, Mr. Wine said, it was still a bargain by New York City standards, where less space in the highest-end condominiums can go for thousands of dollars more than that.
''It gives you comfort,'' Mr. Shapiro, the Beverly Hills real estate agent, who handles sales of $20 million and over, said of Mrs. Spelling's decision. ''Nobody wants to be the first one. She sets the pace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Candy Spelling, widow of the television producer Aaron Spelling, in the entryway of her 56,500-square-foot home, The Manor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, a rendering of The Century, a luxury condominium building
Candy Spelling bought two top floors for $47 million. Nearby is The Carlyle Residences, which opens next summer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE CENTURY
ELAD PROPERTIES) (pg. A16) CHART: Going Vertical: More than half of recent new home sales in Los Angeles County have been condos. Chart details NEW HOME SALES IN LOS ANGELES. Hanley Wood) (Source: California Association of Realtors
 Hanley Wood) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TRENDS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%); US DOLLAR (67%); BOWLING CENTERS (57%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



512 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Georgian Crisis Brings Attitude Change to a Flush Poland

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Michal Piotrowski contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WARSAW 

 BODY:
The bustling streets of downtown Warsaw, increasingly filled with gleaming new automobiles and lined with Western boutique stores, seem a world away from downtown Tbilisi, Georgia's capital, where jittery residents this month faced the once inconceivable threat of Russian tanks advancing down Rustaveli Avenue in the center of the city.
 But the events in the Caucasus, and threats of an attack by a Russian general after the announcement of a deal to place an American missile defense base on Polish soil, have cast a pall of doubt over this country, which, flush and confident, has taken its place in the West, specifically on the side of America, as an ally rather than as a vassal.
 As the United States and Poland formally signed the missile defense agreement on Wednesday, over vociferous objections from Moscow, polls in the daily newspaper Dziennik showed public opinion swinging sharply in the last month, from opposition to the missile base to support. 
 ''Before the Georgia invasion, I was against the installation of the missile shield in Poland,'' said Julian Damentko, 26, a student out for a walk in Saski Park here earlier this week. ''But now, after the events there, I feel threatened from the East, and I don't regret the decision.''
 Poland, where the Solidarity trade union hammered the first cracks into the old Soviet bloc, has been feeling its strength as a leader of the New Europe of former Soviet-sphere states. But since the Georgia crisis, this largest of post-Communist European Union members has moved to cement its relationship to action-oriented America and not just the tentative bureaucracies of Europe and NATO. 
 The Russian invasion reminded Poles once again how quickly and dangerously Eastern Europe can divide. Poland is struggling to show that it will not fall behind the faint old lines of the cold war, which may have seemed foggily forgotten in the West since the Berlin Wall fell but are remembered all too well here. 
 On newsstands, the cover of the mainstream, right-leaning weekly magazine Wprost features an illustration of Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's prime minister, with an instantly recognizable little mustache and sweep of hair across the forehead that make the headline, ''Adolf Putin,'' redundant. The Polish edition of Newsweek shows the outspoken and at times impolitic Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, in the pilot's seat of an airplane cockpit under the headline, ''You have to be tough with Russia.''
 Radek Sikorski, Poland's foreign minister and the government's point man on missile defense, said in an interview this week, ''Parchments and treaties are all very well, but we have a history in Poland of fighting alone and being left to our own devices by our allies.'' 
 It is not a cold war mindset that drives Poland, Mr. Sikorski said, but one that harks all the way back to World War II, when, despite alliances with Britain and France, Poland fought Nazi Germany alone, and lost. 
 It was ''the defining moment for us in the 20th century,'' Mr. Sikorski said. ''Then we were stabbed in the back by the Soviet Union, and that determined our fate for 50 years.'' 
 As a result, Poland's foreign policy is stamped by mistrust not only for Russia's ambitions but also for hollow assurances from its own allies. Georgia's lonely fight against an overwhelming Russian military served as an object lesson -- a refresher that people here said no one needed -- on the limits of waiting for help from friends. 
 ''We're determined this time around to have alliances backed by realities, backed by capabilities,'' said Mr. Sikorski, pointing out that all Poland has now in terms of NATO infrastructure is one unfinished conference center.
 This kind of strategic thinking was supposed to be on the way out. It was just last December when Poles celebrated the removal of all border checkpoints with Germany and other European neighbors, a powerful symbol of the country's full membership in the Western club.
 The economy has been churning out new jobs and higher wages, allowing Poles to enjoy a standard of living that, though not up to French or German standards yet, is far beyond what everyday people could have imagined in Communist times.
 In Warsaw, there remains a sense of remove, if no longer complete security. 
 ''There is a certain climate of safety, that we are already long admitted in the Atlantic alliance, that we proved to be a good member, a good ally,'' said Marek Ostrowski, the foreign editor of Polityka, a mainstream weekly news magazine. He said there was a feeling among Poles that ''the summer is nice and finally people don't feel threatened.''
 Poland's sense of security did not occur overnight. It was a result of nearly two decades of assiduous work to burrow as deeply into Western institutions as possible, leaving behind the Russian sphere and taking what leaders in this largely Roman Catholic country had long argued was its natural place in the West. 
 Also setting it apart is the lack of a sizable Russian minority, which so worries officials in Ukraine and other former Soviet republics. Of Poland's 38.5 million people, 97 percent are ethnically Polish.
 In signing the deal on Wednesday to allow American missiles to be based within its borders, Poland is being true to both its tortured past and its present as a new European power. It is allowing the missiles, but on its own terms: the deal says that the United States will also contribute a Patriot missile battery that will be operated by American troops for the time being, binding Poland and the United States in a way that increases both the risk and the cost of confrontation with a newly emboldened Russia.
 Poland is not just relying on allies like the United States for its defense. The country is in the process of revamping its military, ending conscription and modernizing its professional army. Among the former Communist nations now integrated into NATO and the European Union, Poland has grown into the role of outspoken advocate for countries like Ukraine and Georgia that are still in Russia's orbit. 
 ''Poland will be a normal European country when it has normal, democratic, free-market countries on both sides of its border,'' said Mr. Sikorski, the foreign minister, adding, ''and that includes Russia, by the way.''
 In many ways, this assertive country, aided by Western allies and institutions, is a model of what can be achieved with Western support, but also of exactly what Russia does not want Ukraine and Georgia becoming on its southern flank.
 Public support for the missile deal was far from universal on the streets of Warsaw. Some residents said the threat was being hyped by leaders for political gain, and others maintained that any steps that might provoke Russia were a mistake. 
 ''It's the dumbest thing we could have done,'' said Slawomir Janak, 72, a retiree. ''This decision is going to have its repercussions on Poland for a long time. It might even lead to the third world war.''
 But most said it was a necessary step. 
 ''If the Western nations don't defend such a strategic target as the pipelines in Georgia, why should they defend Poland, which is less strategic?'' said Szymon Chlebowski, 22, a student from Gdansk out for a stroll down Warsaw's grand boulevard, Krakowskie Przedmiescie. ''In the perspective of five years, I see a real threat for Poland, starting in the Baltic nations, north to south first, and then Poland, with the same lack of reaction by Western nations.'' 
 ''As in the Second World War,'' said Joanna Skicka, 22, who was with him. ''The story will repeat itself.''
 Mr. Chlebowski said he and his friends had started discussing where they would go if Poland were attacked. In a sign of Poland's orientation to the West, they said they planned to escape to Italy or Spain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Warsaw skyline reflects the Westernization of Poland that has helped make it a leader among the former Soviet-sphere nations and wary of Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KACPER PEMPEL/REUTERS)
 On Warsaw's streets, like Krakowskie Przedmiescie, opinion shifted recently in favor of an American missile base.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER ANDREWS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NEWSSTANDS (68%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (68%); LABOR UNIONS (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) POLAND (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



513 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Those Shelved Brands Start to Look Tempting

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN tough times, consumers hoping to save money will rummage through cupboards, pantries and closets, looking at what they already own for something they may be able to eat or wear.
 Marketers of consumer products go through a similar process during economic downturns, taking stock of brands they already own to see if any can be revived or renewed. It can cost significantly less to bring back a brand -- or restore the luster to a faded one -- than to develop a new product, because spending huge sums to generate awareness is not necessary.
 For instance, in considering a comeback for Eagle snacks, research found that ''6 out of 10 adults remember the brand,'' said Scott Lazar, chief executive of Reserve Brands in Chicago, which is reintroducing Eagle in stores and vending machines.
 ''It would take $300 million to $500 million to recreate that brand awareness today,'' he said. 
 As Eagle returns after more than a decade away, also making a reappearance is a brand of chocolate sandwich cookies, Hydrox, that was once a mainstay of Sunshine Biscuits.
 Hydrox, long a runner-up to Nabisco's Oreo, crumbled after Sunshine was sold to Keebler in 1996 and Keebler was acquired by Kellogg in 2001; Kellogg stopped selling Hydrox in 2003.
 Kellogg is reintroducing the brand at an event to be held in New York on Thursday. Scheduled to be present are three consumers who won a contest to be declared America's most ardent Hydrox fans; the winners are featured on a Web site (hydroxcookies.com) along with content like a history of Hydrox, first sold by Sunshine in 1908.
 In battling Oreo, Hydrox was ''up against very tough competition, and to be honest with you the brand had gotten a little bit old and a little bit tired,'' said Brad Davidson, senior vice president of the Kellogg Company in Battle Creek, Mich., and president for North America.
 Still, Kellogg had been hearing from the ''very loyal consumer base'' since Hydrox disappeared, Mr. Davidson said, and so had its sales force, which had been receiving requests for the brand to be brought back.
 The brand's centennial provided a peg to revive Hydrox in what is being called a ''100th anniversary limited edition,'' he added. This will help Kellogg gauge whether the brand should be brought back permanently.
 Although Mr. Davidson declined to be specific about production, he said the number of packages to be shipped for sale later this month had ''far exceeded our original forecast.''
 Hydrox and Eagle are among scores of products that marketers abandoned because of declining sales, stronger competitors or a desire to focus on newer brands deemed more contemporary.
 For example, there was an outcry online last winter when Kraft Foods discontinued Postum, a caffeine-free coffee substitute that was introduced in 1895 as the first product of the Postum Cereal Company, later the General Foods Corporation.
 Marketers are also taking another look at products that are still in production but have been forgotten or neglected, known as ghost brands or orphan brands.
 Makers of such products usually cut advertising budgets in the face of declining sales. That slows sales further, which leads to more budget cuts -- creating a downward spiral, difficult to avoid, that can land a ghost or orphan in the netherworld of once-popular, now-deceased trademarks along with the likes of Postum, Ipana toothpaste, Plymouth cars, Duz detergent and Hit Parade cigarettes.
 ''Marketing can be a beautiful art form when it's done well, but it's not a perfect science,'' said Jay Kolpon, vice president for marketing at the Bayer HealthCare division of Bayer in Morristown, N.J.
 To keep some of its venerable brands fresh -- brands like Aleve, Alka-Seltzer, Bayer, Flintstones and One A Day vitamins, and Phillips' Milk of Magnesia -- Bayer HealthCare is pursuing a strategy that Mr. Kolpon described as focused on ''marketing innovation, product innovation and technology innovation.''
 For instance, new advertising campaigns for Alka-Seltzer draw on its heritage while at the same time updating brand catch phrases like ''I can't believe I ate the whole thing'' and ''Try it; you'll like it.''
 There are also new products being brought out under the umbrella of the well-known brands, among them Alka-Seltzer Wake-Up Call, a hangover treatment, and Phillips' Colon Health, a probiotic supplement in caplet form.
 Not every familiar brand can ''share this kind of success,'' Mr. Kolpon acknowledged. For example, while the Flintstones vitamin line is still doing well, vitamins sold under the Bugs Bunny name are lagging.
 ''At one point, we felt very good about Bugs Bunny,'' Mr. Kolpon said, ''but in terms of prioritizing our spending and investments, we've focused on other brands.''
 That risk was underscored on Aug. 5, when Ascendia Brands filed for bankruptcy protection after efforts to revive the Healing Garden brand of toiletries fell short when marketing costs exceeded estimates and sales underperformed expectations.
 ''You need the marriage of a great brand and product innovation,'' said Mr. Lazar of Reserve Brands, adding that his plans to reintroduce Eagle include new snacks under names like Bursts and Poppers, to ''modernize the brand and contemporize it.''
 ''The other thing that's important is that the category of snacks is different from other categories,'' Mr. Lazar said, because snacks are ''an expandable consumable.''
 ''The more snacks you stock up on, the more you eat,'' he added. ''You can stock up on all the shampoo you want, but you're only going to wash your hair once a day.''
 That may augur well for the potential revival of Hydrox, which could also be fueled by the loyalty of brand advocates like Kim Burton of Wichita, Kan., whose online posts supporting the cookies, dating to 1999, caught the attention of Kellogg executives.
 ''It speaks volumes about what the Internet can do,'' Ms. Burton said in a telephone interview before a trip to New York to join the three winners of the fan contest at the Hydrox event. 
 ''More and more products are going to have these networks of customer bases,'' she added. Some of Ms. Burton's posts can be read at spacefem.com/hydrox.
 Mr. Davidson of Kellogg suggested that other older brands may be ripe for revival because ''as the population ages, there are certain brands that really resonate with consumers.''
 Does that mean a comeback for Sunshine Golden Raisin Biscuits? Sunshine Lemon Coolers cookies? Kellogg's Pep cereal? Kellogg's OKs cereal? Only time -- and the plaintive requests of determined bloggers -- will tell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hydrox cookies, ''the king of biscuits,'' are back in a limited edition this month, 100 years after they were introduced.
 The Alka-Seltzer mascot Speedy, with new faces of the brand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); AWARENESS MARKETING (77%); BRAND EQUITY (77%); BAKED GOODS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); BRANDING (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SALES & SELLING (71%); CONFECTIONERY (70%); SALES FORCE (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (84%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (84%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (84%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (84%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (84%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



514 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Planning for Retirement

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Less Than Golden Years'' (editorial, Aug. 15):
 Americans hold $17.6 trillion in retirement assets. Future retirees are poised to fare far better than today's over-65 population. According to the Congressional Research Service, fewer than one in four of those now over age 65 receive any income from a private-sector-employer retirement plan. The lucky few who do have an average lump-sum equivalent of $90,000. 
 Sixty percent of full-time private-sector workers participate in a retirement plan at work. Moderate- and low-income workers are 15 times more likely to participate in a 401(k) plan than to contribute to an I.R.A. 
 We know where the problems are. Businesses with fewer than 25 employees are not likely to offer a retirement plan, and workers in the bottom quintile are hard pressed to save for retirement. 
 Public policy should concentrate on addressing these two issues while preserving the voluntary nature of the employer-provided benefit system. 
 Edward Ferrigno Vice President, Washington Affairs Profit Sharing/401(k) Council of America Washington, Aug. 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We agree about the need for employers to educate their employees about the perils of tapping into their 401(k) accounts before retirement. We also agree that Congress should stand firm against measures like 401(k) debit cards that would encourage additional ''leakage.'' 
 The larger issue, however, is whether more education and less leakage will ensure that 401(k)'s will provide an adequate supplement to Social Security for the majority of American workers. So far, the data are not encouraging. 
 Even before the current economic downturn, half of all older households had less than $61,000 in their 401(k) accounts. Indications are that the shift to 401(k) plans will leave millions of people without adequate income in retirement.
 Just telling people to save is not enough. Congress needs to focus on developing a new private retirement system where the risks and responsibilities of investing are not shouldered entirely by individuals. 
 Coming up with a new system for the future will be a challenge, but the consequences of not doing anything are far worse.
 Karen W. Ferguson Director, Pension Rights Center Washington, Aug. 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); DEBIT CARDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



515 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Question Wide Use of HPV Vaccines

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Two vaccines against cervical cancer are being widely used without sufficient evidence about whether they are worth their high cost or even whether they will effectively stop women from getting the disease, two articles in this week's New England Journal of Medicine conclude. 
 Both vaccines target the human papillomavirus, a common sexually transmitted virus that usually causes no symptoms and is cleared by the immune system, but which can in very rare cases become chronic and cause cervical cancer. 
 The two vaccines, Gardasil by Merck Sharp & Dohme and Cervarix by GlaxoSmithKline, target two strains of the virus that together cause an estimated 70 percent of cervical cancers. Gardasil also prevents infection with two other strains that cause some proportion of genital warts. Both vaccines have become quick best sellers since they were licensed two years ago in the United States and Europe, given to tens of millions of girls and women. 
 ''Despite great expectations and promising results of clinical trials, we still lack sufficient evidence of an effective vaccine against cervical cancer,'' Dr. Charlotte J. Haug, editor of The Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, wrote in an editorial in Thursday's issue of The New England Journal. ''With so many essential questions still unanswered, there is good reason to be cautious.''
 In her article, Dr. Haug points out the vaccines have been studied for a relatively short period -- both were licensed in 2006 and have been studied in clinical trails for at most six and a half years. Researchers have not yet demonstrated how long the immunity will last, or whether eliminating some strains of cancer-causing virus will decrease the body's natural immunity to other strains.
 More to the point, because cervical cancer develops only after years of chronic infection with HPV, Dr. Haug said there was not yet absolute proof that protection against these two strains of the virus would ultimately reduce rates of cervical cancer -- although in theory it should do so. 
 Dr. Richard Haupt, medical director of Merck, called these concerns ''very theoretical,'' noting that continuing research and monitoring suggested that immunity would be longlasting and that the vaccine would not lead to problems with other strains. 
 He added that cervical cancer was ''just the tip of the iceberg'' and that HPV caused a huge amount of expensive and stressful testing in developed nations that could be avoided with vaccination. 
 The vaccines, which require three shots for a complete series, cost about $400 to about $1,000, depending on the country and the fees for doctors' visits. Unlike older vaccines that save money by preventing costly disease, these vaccines cost health systems money.
 The second paper published this week, a study by Jane J. Kim and Dr. Sue Goldie of Harvard, looks at the issue of costs and concludes that the vaccines will be cost effective only if used in certain ways. In particular, the researchers say the vaccines will be worth the cost only if they prove to protect girls for a lifetime, and if current methods for screening for cervical cancer using Pap smears can be safely adjusted to reduce costs there. Further research is required in both areas.
 ''I believe the vaccine is a great advance, but we have to implement it properly to get the benefits, and that hasn't happened,'' said Dr. Philip Davies of the European Cervical Cancer Association.
 In developed countries, Pap smear screening and treatment have effectively reduced cervical cancer death rates to very low levels already. There are 3,600 deaths annually from cervical cancer in the United States, 1,000 in France and 400 in Britain.
 Cervical cancer, like skin cancer, can generally be caught at precancerous or non-invasive stages and treated. Because the vaccine prevents infection with only some of the cancer-causing strains, Pap smear screening must continue even in those who are vaccinated.
 The Harvard study concluded that giving the vaccine to 12-year-olds would cost $43,600 for every ''quality adjusted year of life'' it saved by preventing a cancer death; that price would often be considered acceptable by health officials in wealthy countries, experts say. 
 Dr. Haupt said the study proved that it was best to vaccinate early. ''It underscores the value of vaccinating pre-adolescent girls,'' since the vaccine works fully only in girls who have not been exposed to HPV. 
 But if the vaccine were given to all girls and women up to age 21, the cost per year of life saved would be far higher -- $120,400, the Harvard study concluded. And if the vaccines prove to require a booster shot, as many critics believe, that cost rises to $140,000. In such cases it might make more economic sense to rely on Pap smear screening alone, the researchers said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (92%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (92%); VACCINES (91%); CERVICAL CANCER (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); VIRUSES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); SKIN DISORDERS (72%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%); MERCK SHARP & DOHME IA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (76%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



516 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Architects and Engineers Express Doubt About Bloomberg's Windmill Proposal

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Interviews with architects, engineers and energy experts on Wednesday suggest that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to place wind turbines atop the city's skyscrapers and bridges, as well as off the coastline of Queens and Brooklyn, would be complicated and expensive and barely begin to meet the growth in demand for electricity that is expected in the coming years.
 ''The smaller turbines that he's talking about almost don't pay in terms of kilowatts per hour produced,'' said Daniel Karpen, a Long Island engineering consultant who has studied the feasibility of wind power. ''He's going to need money to build them, and then you end up with a tremendous amount of red tape. It's a nightmare.''
 The thought of making the most of a clean, bottomless resource like wind is certainly an attractive one. But the challenges of harvesting that resource in a densely populated city like New York are manifold, which is why several initiatives to experiment with wind in recent years have not taken flight. 
 Skyscrapers would have to be designed -- or retrofitted at great cost -- to accommodate the extra weight, vibration and swaying of the turbines. Insurers would have to be persuaded that turbines are worth the risk. And New York is not a particularly windy city, so a few buildings facing New York Harbor might be the only sites that make sense.
 Even if Mr. Bloomberg could find investors willing to build turbines capable of generating 1,000 megawatts of electricity, experts said, operators of the city's grid would be able to count on only 100 megawatts, or less than 1 percent of peak demand. 
 Solar panels, by contrast, can be put on an array of structures and are active on hot, sunny days when electricity use is high. (New York is windiest on winter nights, when demand is low).
 ''New York is really a solar city,'' said Anthony Pereira, chief executive of altPower, a company that helps design, develop and install solar and wind power and is a member of the Alliance for Clean Energy New York, an industry group.
 Mr. Pereira said that some solar panel installations could pay for themselves in four years, compared with as many as 25 years for small wind turbines.
 Speaking on Wednesday in Washington Heights, the mayor said that his proposals for wind power were only the ''very beginning'' and that ''if you don't ask, you're never going to find out'' whether new ideas make economic sense.
 ''Windmills are no panacea for our problems, but they can help,'' he said, a day after making his proposal in a speech at the National Clean Energy Summit in Las Vegas. ''No one thing will fix the problems we have created over the years.''
 The mayor said that he saw windmills off the shore of Blackpool, England, where they appeared as dots on the horizon. But the track record for such projects in New York is spotty.
 Last year, the Long Island Power Authority's proposal to build dozens of windmills off Jones Beach was shot down because the projected costs skyrocketed and the cost of electricity from the turbines would have been at least double that of power from traditional sources.
 Wind turbines have been used at a handful of sites in New York City, including Battery Park City and 34th Street at the East River. They have been installed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard site and soon will be placed at a commercial building in the Melrose section of the Bronx. 
 A serious consideration of harvesting wind energy on New York's skyscrapers and bridges, however, requires the abandonment of any fanciful idea about installing windmills on the Empire State Building or the towers of the Brooklyn Bridge.
 First of all, it is unlikely that any existing structure would be able to withstand the extra swaying, twisting, vibrating and weight that turbines impose. So the tower's structural framework would have to be retrofitted to handle the new loads, adding enormously to a project's cost with relatively little yield.
 Second, the familiar windmill or wind farm turbine has a horizontal rotor with radiating blades. These would pose a tremendous liability in the city, where a flying blade could do great damage. (Five people were killed in 1977 by a helicopter blade that snapped off atop what is now the MetLife Building on Park Avenue.) 
 There are vertical-axis wind turbines, some of which resemble giant food processor blades, that can collect wind from any direction and have been the choice of several architects who considered wind farms for the city.
 Eight vertical wind turbines were integral to the original design of the new 1 World Trade Center, also known as Freedom Tower, by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. They would have been situated within an open-air, cable-framed structure at the tower's upper reaches, though they were never envisioned as a major power source.
 ''It would have been a small but identifiable portion of the building's needs,'' said Carl Galioto, a Skidmore partner. ''We were hoping that, at peak capacity, it would have been enough to power the elevators. If it were able to do that, it would have been rather impressive.''
 The turbines would also have served as a symbolic representation of perpetual renewal, certainly a meaningful theme at ground zero.
 But Gov. George E. Pataki expressed concern about the danger the blades would pose to migrating birds, and others worried about them icing up. Before these issues could be resolved, the New York Police Department raised objections to the tower's overall security provisions, compelling a redesign that abandoned the wind farm notion.
 More than 30 vertical wind turbines, each about 50 feet tall and 12 feet in diameter, were included in the Kohn Pedersen Fox design of the stadium proposed for the New York Jets on the West Side.
 ''They were designed to capture the prevailing winds from the Hudson River,'' said Trent J. Tesch, a senior associate principal at the firm. He added that their presence within the industrial-looking facade would have ''expressed the frenetic energy of what was happening inside.''
 In combination with photovoltaic cells, Mr. Tesch said, the plan called for the turbines to produce enough power to satisfy all the stadium's needs when a game was being played and to generate energy for other users when the team was not playing. The stadium project was scuttled in 2005 when legislative leaders in Albany failed to support it.
 Kohn Pedersen Fox is proposing an array of vertical turbines for an exhibition hall called the Ubiquitous Life Building in New Songdo City, South Korea. These would collect the wind that hits the building's facade, forcing it to cross the rooftop. ''They don't necessarily have to be incredibly high up to be productive,'' Mr. Tesch said.
 Urban turbine farms might be productively situated at industrial sites around New York Harbor, where they could take advantage of low-rise surroundings and wind off the water, Mr. Galioto said. And there are other ways of collecting wind energy in large structures. Skidmore is working on the 71-story Pearl River Tower in Guangzhou, China, where the exterior walls of the mechanical-equipment floors are shaped into enormous scoops to direct the wind into turbines inside. These will generate energy for the heating, ventilating and air-conditioning, the firm said.
 ''There's an example of building design,'' Mr. Galioto said, ''where wind power is integrated within the building and one doesn't need all sorts of fanciful contraptions appended to the top.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More than 30 vertical wind turbines were included in the design for the proposed New York Jets stadium on the West Side.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KOHN PEDERSEN FOX)
A design for the Ubiquitous Life Building, an exhibition hall in New Songdo City, South Korea, with vertical rooftop turbines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KOHN PEDERSEN FOX)
 Some exterior walls of the Pearl River Tower in Guangzhou, China, are scoops that direct the wind into turbines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SKIDMORE, OWINGS & MERRILL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTH CHINA (59%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



517 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Rural Swath Of a Big State Tests Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
RACCOON TOWNSHIP, Pa. -- Wander up a gravel road and ask George Timko about Barack Obama and John McCain and he wrinkles his nose. Neither of those guys strikes him as a prize.
Mr. Timko is a burly fellow, with close-cropped white hair and a Fu Manchu mustache, and a gold necklace that rests on his bare chest. ''Barack Obama makes me nervous,'' said Mr. Timko, a 65-year-old retiree with a garden hose in hand. ''Who is he? Where'd he come from? ''
As for Senator McCain? He shook his head. ''He keeps talking about being a prisoner of war back in Vietnam. Great. The economy stinks; tell me his plan.''
To roam the rural reaches of western Pennsylvania, through largely white working-class counties, is to understand the breadth of the challenge facing the two presidential candidates. But this economically ravaged region, once so solidly Democratic, poses a particular hurdle for Senator Obama. 
From the desolation of Aliquippa -- where the Jones & Laughlin steel mill loomed at the foot of the main boulevard -- to the fading beauty of Beaver Falls to the neatly tended homes of retired steel workers in Hopewell, one hears much hesitating talk about Mr. Obama, some simply quizzical or skeptically political, and some not-so-subtly racial.
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York ran 40 percentage points ahead of Mr. Obama here during the Democratic primary. With its neighborhoods of white working-class laborers and retirees and fraying party loyalties, it has become a most uncertain political terrain and an inviting target for Mr. McCain -- and one that could tip the electoral balance in Pennsylvania, a place packed with electoral votes.
Labor operatives line up behind Mr. Obama, and about a third of the 35 white voters who were interviewed leaned toward him. But no one feels confident predicting how many white Clinton voters will transfer their affections to Mr. Obama.
Raccoon Township, with a population just over 3,000, sprawls atop a hill in Beaver County, a 92 percent white and deeply blue-collar province. For a century it formed a stud in the Steel Necklace, a stretch of Pennsylvania and Ohio defined by belching steel mills and robust union wages. But as the mills shuttered, voters tipped Democratic by ever-narrower margins: Al Gore bested George W. Bush by eight percentage points in 2000; John Kerry took Mr. Bush by fewer than three in 2004.
Political scientists tend to paint Pennsylvania in broad swaths: There is Philadelphia and its liberal-to-centrist suburbs; the middle of the state, which is rural, gun-loving and rightward-leaning; and the western third, which, except for Pittsburgh, tends to hold ever-so-tenuously to Democratic loyalties.
The Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., in a poll conducted last week, found Mr. Obama piling up big margins in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, but lagging in these western, working-class counties.
''This is not an easy land for any candidate, and you might say a black one has more trouble than most,'' said G. Terry Madonna, the center's director.
To what extent white voter concern has become a surrogate for racial anxiety is unclear.
Many voters talk of reading a stream of false and shadowy rumors purveyed by e-mail: Mr. Obama does not put his hand on his heart during the national anthem, he is a Muslim, he did not say hello to enlisted men in Afghanistan. Some disregard these rumors; some do not.
Mr. Obama is an Ivy League-educated lawyer campaigning in towns where an eighth-grade education and a sturdy back once purchased a good life. And he talks of soaring hope to people mistrustful of the same.
''People around here want pragmatic, practical language,'' said Tina Shannon, the 49-year-old daughter of a steel-mill worker and a liberal activist. ''They don't want high-flown talk.''
This said, Mr. McCain quickens few pulses. Vietnam, where he served in the military and was held captive for more than five years, seems distant. And not all laugh at his commercials poking fun at Mr. Obama's ''celebrity'' status.
Fifty yards down the gravel road from Mr. Timko's home, Brenda Goff, 55, a pharmacy worker who describes herself as a ''Hillary girl'' but is fine with Mr. Obama. As for Mr. McCain?
''I don't like his commercials -- it's like he thinks we're stupid,'' Ms. Goff said.
Issues might seem to break toward Mr. Obama. Only 2 of 38 people interviewed -- most in random door-knocking -- favored remaining in Iraq. (Mr. Obama advocates a 16-month withdrawal timetable; Mr. McCain vows to stay until the war is won but suggests that he would have troops out by 2013.)
Few want a handout, but fewer want government to abandon them. A simmering hurt suffuses their words, a sense that neither hard work nor their unions could save them.
James Stanford, a retired and still heavily muscled steel worker, stood at his door and spoke of a pension that had evaporated. ''Obama got one thing right,'' he said. ''We are bitter here.''
John Sylvester, 76, remembers when you could not find a parking space in Beaver Falls. You danced Saturday night at the Sons of Italy Club and drank with Dutch Town and River Rat neighborhood boys.
Mr. Sylvester labored in a steel mill for 42 years. Then the mill owner declared bankruptcy. Now he was bent over a chipped fire hydrant, putting down a coat of yellow paint for $7 an hour.
His blue eyes were piercing beneath a white sun visor. ''I got a little money in the end but nothing to speak of,'' he said.
Decades of job losses have created a youthful diaspora -- you can knock on many doors without finding anyone under age 45. Declining enrollments forced Raccoon Township to close its elementary and middle schools. Political wisdom holds that such fractures favor the Democrats.
But Mr. Obama does not sound like a sure bet.
''Obama's very charismatic but if you listen closely, he hasn't said a whole lot,'' Mr. Sylvester said.
In Raccoon, Kelly Dobbins, a middle-aged factory worker, offered the same. ''I'm like a duck in the water -- I float there but underneath I'm paddling hard as I can go,'' Mr. Dobbins said. ''What's pushing me toward McCain is Obama. Who is he? Where does he stand?''
Such questions hint at a cultural disconnect. Mr. Obama would invest tens of billions of dollars in retooling mills and factories to fashion windmills and solar panels. He notes that Denmark and the Netherlands have grown fat off the new energy economy.
But environmentalism holds little attraction in a county where soot-covered stoops and dirty rivers were accepted as an unfortunate trade-off of a prosperous industrial age.
''Until people see a factory transformed, they really don't put much store by this talk,'' said the Rev. Henry Knapp of First Presbyterian Church in Beaver.
Still, two-thirds of Pennsylvanians surveyed in the Franklin & Marshall poll ranked the economy as their No. 1 concern.
Hookstown is surrounded by emerald fields near the West Virginia border. White-haired Art Seckman stepped gingerly off his porch.
Mr. Seckman puts no faith in Mr. McCain. ''He looks tired, and he's gung-ho about war,'' Mr. Seckman said. ''I was a Hillary guy, but Obama sounds honest and he's young and he understands the modern economy.''
He paused, and laughed, ''Maybe, funny as it sounds, it's time for a black man to fix this mess.''
For a century, Aliquippa formed the primal heart of Beaver County. There was the mill, the company store and the Italian Renaissance library built by the daughter of the mill founder.
Ethnic communities occupied each hill. Croats, Italians, Irish and blacks worked, fought, and drank together. Now the downtown offers swaybacked homes and boarded storefronts, and rubble. Aliquippa is 35 percent black, the highest percentage in the county. Glenn Kimbrough, 65, with a silver-tipped goatee and a neat Afro, came out of the mills after 37 years.
Mr. Kimbrough is an Obama supporter but he would not hazard a guess as to how his white buddies will vote. He said economic disaster had exacerbated racial tensions. With the mills closed, the work force is resegregating.
Carl Davidson, a white friend and an Obama supporter, sat in Mr. Kimbrough's living room. ''My father voted for Edwards in the primary and now he wants McCain,'' said Mr. Davidson, whose father and grandfather labored in the mills. ''Without realizing it, he's wrapped up in white-identity politics.''
Sorting out white-voter discomfort with Mr. Obama is tricky business. Most speak of unease with his newness. But one in five primary voters surveyed in the Edison/Mitofsky exit poll in Pennsylvania said race was a factor.
Ivan Stickles, a carpenter, worked on his motorcycle in his driveway in Hopewell. Mr. Stickles, 57, is not taking what he sees as a gamble on Obama.
''There's this e-mail that he didn't shake hands with the troops,'' Mr. Stickles said of a rumor that is false. ''I don't have the time to check out if it's true, but if it is, it's very offensive.''
In Hookstown, Kristine Lakovich, 48, works the counter at Kiner's Superette. She likes Mr. Obama, a preference she keeps to herself. ''If you ask people around here, he's not exactly the right answer,'' Ms. Lakovich said. ''People are split between their politics and their prejudice.''
Nationally, the Obama campaign shies from talk of race, preferring to argue that the poor economy will dominate this election. Such delicacy holds no purchase here. An organizer with the United Steelworkers met with 30 workers in Beaver. He could not have been blunter. Mr. Obama, he told them, stands for national health care, strong unions and preserving Social Security.
''Some of you won't vote for him because he's black,'' the organizer concluded. ''Well, he's a Democrat. Get over it.''
Stateside: This is part of an occasional series of articles that track the pace of the presidential race in states across the country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Sylvester, a retired steel worker who now works for $7 an hour, says Barack Obama has not offered economic plans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Smokestacks dot the horizon of Beaver County, Pa., a largely blue-collar county whose cities and towns are struggling to survive economically after the failures of its once-dominant steel mills.
Ivan Stickles spoke of a rumor that Barack Obama had not shaken hands with troops in Afghanistan. ''I don't have the time to check out if it's true,'' he said, ''but if it is, it's very offensive.''
''People around here want pragmatic, practical language,'' Tina Shannon said.
Economic disaster in the area had worsened racial tensions, Glenn Kimbrough said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) CHARTS: How Pennsylvania Voted in Presidential Races . . .: 2004 popular vote margin
. . . and Who Voted: As percentage of all voters surveyed in the 2004 statewide exit poll.
Past margins of victory(Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 exit poll conducted by Edison/Mitofsky) Charts detail bar graph and bubble chart for size of margin. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (88%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FINE JEWELRY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); SUBURBS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); AL GORE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); VIET NAM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



518 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Europe Grows Impatient as Delays Pile Up in Georgia

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Basil Katz contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Europeans are frustrated and annoyed by Russia's foot-dragging on a cease-fire deal to pull back its troops from most of Georgia, but few want this conflict to be the start of a new confrontation, and many feel a degree of sympathy with Russia. 
 That is in stark contrast to the American position, making the war in Georgia yet another moment when the American and European perspectives diverge. 
 The United States -- stung by the Russian move against a Washington protege, Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili -- has talked in cold war terms, with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice comparing the Russian move to the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. But many European leaders believe that Mr. Saakashvili acted rashly when he sent his troops to take over the autonomous ethnic enclave of South Ossetia, bringing down much of the destruction upon his own head. 
 ''On one side you have a bear, and on the other, a little 'roquet,' '' said one senior French official, using the French word for a yapping little dog. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the Georgian crisis publicly, allowed that Mr. Saakashvili may have fallen into a carefully prepared Russian trap. ''But when you're a chief of state, you have to know about the reality of forces,'' he said. ''This was an incredible misjudgment by Saakashvili.''
 It is not that the Europeans support the Russian exercise of power. The French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, has sharply criticized Moscow's ''overreaction,'' saying there are ''no illusions'' about the new Russia or about the abuses of power on both sides. And he has expressed annoyance that despite three promises by the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, the Russians have been dragging their feet about pulling back their troops, as called for in a cease-fire agreement the French negotiated on behalf of the European Union. 
 ''We cannot accept this kind of blindness, not accepting international law and their own words,'' Mr. Kouchner said late Tuesday night, adding that these events seemed to be undermining Mr. Medvedev's authority.
 But Europe does not want to get into a long battle with Russia over a conflict that many believe was initiated by the Georgian government. Many note that it was the Bush administration, never very popular in Europe for its neoconservative ideology, that failed to restrain Mr. Saakashvili and pushed hardest for NATO membership for Georgia and Ukraine.
 ''Saakashvili made his own bed,'' said Nick Witney, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Affairs and the former chief executive of the European Defense Agency. ''It was a pretty catastrophic miscalculation, and to some extent the U.S. administration can't disclaim all responsibility. It's a Georgian and American blunder that handed the Russians a wonderful opportunity to reassert themselves.''
 But Mr. Witney also noted that Europe has now seen close up Russia's failure to keep its word. And in doing so, says Isabelle Falcon, a Russia expert at France's Foundation for Strategic Research, Russia may be overplaying its hand. ''The paradox is that current Russian intransigence is helping the European Union gain more unity, to form a common red line on Russia,'' she said. 
 So Europeans are ''stuck,'' said Jolyon Howorth, a visiting professor of political science at Yale University and the Paris Institute of Political Studies. ''Getting a strategic relationship with Russia right is a fundamental interest for the Europeans,'' he said. ''So Europeans are much more likely to take their distance from the United States and find some sensible relationship with Russia. And it's not Munich or 1968 -- it's common sense.'' 
 Europe considers its Russian neighbor to be European. There are close cultural, economic and historical ties, and intensely practical ones, like the need for natural gas and oil and the market Russia represents for European exports. There are also common problems for which Russian help is required, like the fight against terrorism, organized crime and illegal immigration, as well as the effort to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear power.
 For those reasons, Mr. Kouchner says, it is vital to keep talking to Russia, not cut off ties. Talk of a new cold war is absurd after the fall of Communism, he said. The European Union and the West ''must invent and work on a new language with the Russians, in their new virile attitude,'' he said. ''We are neighbors, linked with energy and problems like terrorism, and we can't suppress our alliance, facing, for example, Iran. We need an understanding.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about European reaction to the conflict between Georgia and Russia misspelled the name of a Russia expert from France's Foundation for Strategic Research who was quoted. She is Isabelle Facon, not Isabelle Falcon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: European leaders believe President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia rashly set off the crisis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI GRITS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner of France told reporters Wednesday that the West needed to keep talking to Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES LOGGHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (90%); BERNARD KOUCHNER (75%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



519 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Breaking the Impasse in the Mideast

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Perils of an Israeli Transition'' (editorial, Aug. 18): 
 Roadblocks aren't strangling the Palestinian economy. Increased attempts at terrorism against Israelis are. 
 Turning Hamas into a legitimate and acceptable negotiating partner essentially means nullifying everything Hamas stands for and creating a new entity under a different leadership. Anyone interested in a bridge I'm selling in Brooklyn?
 The Palestinians recently rejected Israel's offer of almost all of the West Bank that was captured in the Six-Day War in 1967. In order for negotiations to move forward and stop reaching impasse after impasse, it's not only Israel that must engage in offering compromise solutions. 
 The new Israeli prime minister, whoever he or she may be, will be successful in concluding negotiations toward a two-state solution only if the Palestinians realize once and for all that they will not now or ever receive 100 percent of their dreams.
 Stuart Pilichowski Mevaseret Zion, Israel, Aug.
 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You are right to highlight Benjamin Netanyahu's rejection of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. To my Southern ears, Mr. Netanyahu's line rejecting a Palestinian state -- ''not today, not tomorrow, not ever'' -- sounds strikingly like George Wallace, the former Alabama governor, booming out his own racist demagogy of ''segregation today, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever.''
 Mr. Netanyahu and President Bush fail to recognize that the window is rapidly closing on the two-state solution. Based on my June trip to Israel, the West Bank and Gaza Strip, I suspect that it will not be too many more years before Palestinians concede that Israeli settlement and barrier construction in the West Bank has made two states impossible.
 The choice then will be either apartheid imposed on Palestinians or equal rights for Palestinians and Jews in the Holy Land. Just as apartheid in South Africa was overcome and Jim Crow defeated in the South, so, too, is it possible for Jews and Palestinians to live as equals.
 The choice is Israel's: two states without delay or the very real prospect of Palestinians in the near future demanding equal rights in one state from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River.
 Michael F. Brown Takoma Park, Md., Aug.
 18, 2008
 The writer is co-chairman of the board of Interfaith Peace-Builders, a nonprofit organization in Washington.
 To the Editor:
 Your call for President Bush to become more engaged in the peace effort in the Middle East is surely counterintuitive. Why should a man of proven ineptitude in foreign affairs who is leaving an eight-year legacy of decline -- in our security, our economy and our stature in the world -- be expected to help guide others in resolving so complex and difficult an issue?
 I believe that both the Israelis and Palestinians, and the world, for that matter, would be better served if President Bush and his secretary of state stayed home and left the Middle East to the next administration.
 David Kernis Trumbull, Conn., Aug.
 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial clearly demonstrates that the contest to succeed Ehud Olmert as prime minister of Israel offers zero prospect of bringing in a peacemaker to lead Israel.
 As true peacemakers like Jimmy Carter and Desmond Tutu, the former South African archbishop, very clearly say, Israel is the aggressor and is still wedded to intimidation, violence and lies. It has hideously wronged Palestinian Arabs for many decades, and yet you pretend that it can somehow finesse all that by tweaking current repressive policies.
 The only hope for peace is for Israel to face up to the truth, which is that the Palestinians hold the high moral ground as victims. Israel must begin to treat the Palestinians as human beings, and then they will make peace.
 Steve France Cabin John, Md., Aug.
 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''Perils of an Israeli Transition,'' you continue to put the onus on Israel to revive the peace process, as you have in editorials over the years. Meanwhile, Israelis have elected a succession of governments that subscribed to a two-state solution, and have even completed two unilateral withdrawals in Lebanon and Gaza, both of which led to increased vitriol, not to mention rockets, from each of the territories.
 A peace process cannot succeed if one party is constantly expected to engage in goodwill gestures and unilateral concessions, even as the other party continues an internal debate about the level of animosity and violence to direct against the first party.
 When as much is expected of the Palestinians as is of the Israelis, the genesis of a true peace process may finally take hold.
 Michael J. Granoff Tenafly, N.J., Aug.
 18, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); WRITERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); RELIGION (61%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



520 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Obama Shifts Message To Everyday Concerns

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Las Cruces, N.M.

DATELINE: LYNCHBURG, Va. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama has sharpened his stump speech, delivering a more populist message that further highlights his differences with Senator John McCain, particularly on the economy.
 Since he returned from vacation in Hawaii last week, Mr. Obama has intensified his focus on the economic pressures facing everyday Americans and portrayed Mr. McCain as an active participant in the policies of the last eight years, saying they have left more people behind.
 Instead of focusing on the promise of sweeping change that propelled him to the nomination, Mr. Obama this week has been echoing Bill Clinton's 1992 promise to ''fight for you every single day.'' The tightened message is part of a continuing effort since the primaries to bring his oratory down to a more human scale. 
 It also coincides with Mr. Obama's slip in public opinion polls, with some, including the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, putting him and Mr. McCain neck and neck.
 ''I'm not saying every job is going to come back to Martinsville just because I'm elected president; I'm not saying that suddenly all the schools are going to be fixed,'' Mr. Obama said at an event earlier Wednesday with 350 people at Patrick Henry Community College, about 60 miles southwest of here.
 ''But what I can do is, I can say, I'm going to wake up every day thinking about you and thinking about how to make your life a little bit better,'' he said. ''And if you can trust me to do that -- and I'm organizing a bunch of smart people like Mark Warner to come up with innovative ideas -- that'll give you a little bit of a fighting chance that'll make your life a little bit better.''
 He was accompanied by Mr. Warner, a former Virginia governor, who won acclaim for his ability to win over the kind of white working-class Democrats who eluded Mr. Obama in some primaries. He traveled here later with Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, who introduced Mr. Obama to a more raucous crowd of about 2,200 people and dwelled on the economy. So did Mr. Obama.
 ''Americans are anxious,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We have just gone through the first economic expansion in United States history -- this is before the downturn of the last several months -- where family incomes actually went down, not up.'' He said that was the result of deliberate decisions made by the Bush administration and seconded by Mr. McCain, declaring, ''Economic disaster is already here.''
 Mr. Obama has continued to emphasize his differences with Mr. McCain. On Wednesday, he redirected voters away from Mr. McCain's life story and asked them to examine instead the result of his nearly three decades in Washington.
 ''Look,'' Mr. Obama said in response to a question in Martinsville. ''John McCain, let's face it. He's got a compelling biography. He's a P.O.W. And so, that's what people kind of think about instead of focusing on the fact that he wants to continue the same economic policies that George Bush has been doing for the last eight years. So my job in this election is to say, I honor his service, but I don't honor his policies, and I don't honor his politics, and we need a change.''
 Mr. Obama's spokeswoman, Linda Douglass, said he was expressing a new intensity that reflected a greater sense of hardship among people because of the rise in housing foreclosures and gas and food prices.
 ''This campaign is in its 19th month, and it continues to evolve,'' Ms. Douglass said. ''The scope of this pain and fear and insecurity is becoming greater and greater and is pushing him to communicate a greater sense of urgency.''
 Mr. McCain, for his part, continued to campaign on matters of experience and national security. ''Let me be very clear: I am not questioning his patriotism, I am questioning his judgment,'' Mr. McCain said Wednesday, to applause before a friendly crowd at New Mexico State University. ''Senator Obama has made it clear he values withdrawal from Iraq above victory in Iraq, even today with victory in sight.'' 
 Mr. McCain said that Mr. Obama had advocated withdrawal and had voted against financing for the troops in Iraq (once, in 2007) ''not because he doesn't love America, but because he doesn't think it matters whether American wins or loses.'' 
 While Mr. Obama hewed largely to his economic message, a voter here asked him if he could win the election by taking ''the high road.'' That led him to say that the war in Iraq was a mistake, which prompted the audience to erupt with applause. That in turn fired up Mr. Obama, who, as if addressing Mr. McCain, asserted, ''Don't you dare suggest that I'm less patriotic than you.''
 ''I'm not in this to lose,'' he said, adding that there was too much at stake. ''I'm skinny, but I'm tough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, campaigning in North Carolina on Wednesday, sampled peaches at a farmers market in Greensboro.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator John McCain's campaign traveled to Las Cruces, N.M., where he spoke at New Mexico State University on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIM WEBB (59%); MARK WARNER (56%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



521 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows Tight Race With Focus On Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and DALIA SUSSMAN; Marina Stefan and Megan Thee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senators Barack Obama and John McCain are heading into their conventions neck and neck in the presidential race, with voters focused overwhelmingly on economic issues but convinced that the candidates are not paying enough attention to their priorities, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 Slim majorities said neither candidate had made clear what he would do as president, suggesting that both need to use their conventions to provide voters with a better sense of their plans for addressing the deteriorating economy, high energy prices, access to health care and national security.
 Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, is still closely associated with the deeply unpopular President Bush. Nearly half of those surveyed said that they expected him to continue the Bush administration's policies if he were elected president. But voters, by a wide margin, view Mr. McCain as better prepared to be president than Mr. Obama, and as more likely to be an effective commander in chief. 
 Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, was trusted more by voters to handle their top concern, the economy. Sixty-five percent of those surveyed said they were confident that Mr. Obama would make the right decisions on the economy, compared with 54 percent who expressed confidence that Mr. McCain would. When it came to foreign policy, the image was inverted: 66 percent expressed confidence in Mr. McCain to make the right decisions, and 55 percent in Mr. Obama.
 But the economy -- not national security -- is shaping up as the far greater concern this year. Four in 10 voters called it their top concern; only 15 percent cited the Iraq war. Taken together, a series of pocketbook issues -- including the economy, jobs, gas prices and energy policy -- were the leading concerns of more than half of those surveyed. Terrorism and national security, along with the war, were cited as most important by just under a quarter. 
 Voters are more negative about the condition of the nation's economy this election year than they have been at any time since 1992, when Bill Clinton unseated an incumbent president by running an ''it's the economy, stupid'' campaign. 
 But there were indications that both candidates have a way to go to assure voters on their potential stewardship of the economy. A majority of those who called the economy their most important concern said that neither candidate had made it enough of a priority. 
 ''Both of them seem to be more focused elsewhere, Iraq for one thing,'' Truman Roe, 72, a retired Democratic construction worker from Pontiac, Ill., said in a follow-up interview to the poll. 
 The poll suggested that victory remains very much within the grasp of both men as the marathon presidential race enters its most decisive period, from the selection of running mates to the national conventions to the debates. The race has tightened, and a head-to-head matchup nationally -- which is not predictive this early -- shows the contest within the margin of sampling error, with 45 percent of those surveyed saying that they would vote for Mr. Obama, and 42 percent saying that they would vote for Mr. McCain. 
 Still, the poll showed troubling signs for Mr. McCain, who continues to suffer from a wide gap in enthusiasm. Mr. Obama's supporters were twice as likely to describe themselves as enthusiastic as Mr. McCain's were. Only 24 percent of Mr. McCain's supporters called themselves enthusiastic; 28 percent said that they were supporting him only because he was the Republican Party's probable nominee, or because they disliked Mr. Obama. 
 But voters were far more likely to see Mr. McCain as prepared to be president: 68 percent said that he had prepared himself well for the job, compared with 44 percent who said that Mr. Obama had. And 80 percent said they thought Mr. McCain would probably be an effective commander in chief; 58 percent said that Mr. Obama would. 
 The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Aug. 15-19 with 1,012 adults, including 869 registered voters. It had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 There were indications that the more negative tone Mr. McCain adopted this summer could prove risky. Efforts by Republicans and Mr. McCain's campaign to cast his opponent as elitist or out of touch do not seem to have moved popular opinion much against Mr. Obama, but they appear to have led more voters to view Mr. McCain as a negative campaigner.
 In fact, Mr. Obama's favorability ratings remain slightly higher than Mr. McCain's. Voters were somewhat more likely to say that Mr. Obama cares about the needs and problems of people like them than Mr. McCain does. Fifty-five percent of those surveyed said that Mr. Obama was someone they could relate to, while only 41 percent described Mr. McCain that way. And 63 percent said that Mr. Obama shares the values most Americans live by -- the same number who said that Mr. McCain does.
 But several weeks of tough advertisements from the McCain campaign, including widely broadcast spots that dismissed Mr. Obama as a celebrity in the mold of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears, have changed some impressions -- of Mr. McCain. 
 Fifty-two percent of those surveyed said that Mr. McCain was spending more time attacking Mr. Obama than explaining what he would do as president, double the percentage that said so a month ago. By contrast, 61 percent said that Mr. Obama was spending more time explaining what he would do as president than attacking Mr. McCain. The poll was conducted as Mr. Obama began running a series of his own advertisements attacking Mr. McCain in potential swing states.
 The survey suggested strengths and weaknesses for both candidates, including the danger that Mr. McCain is viewed as too close to President Bush. Nearly half of those surveyed said they expected Mr. McCain to continue Mr. Bush's policies, but only 9 percent said they believed he should continue them. 
 Mr. Obama, who took a much-discussed trip overseas last month, was seen as more than twice as likely as Mr. McCain to improve the United States' image in the world.
 And after weeks of running advertisements and trading barbs on energy policy, with Mr. McCain hammering his plan to expand offshore drilling, the two candidates are still viewed similarly: 35 percent said that Mr. Obama's policies would bring down gas prices, while 32 percent said Mr. McCain's policies would.
 As gas prices soared, both candidates changed their positions on offshore oil drilling in recent months. Mr. McCain did so in June, dropping his opposition and becoming an avid proponent of more offshore drilling; Mr. Obama did so this month, opening the door to more offshore drilling in limited circumstances. 
 The survey gave a hint of the politics behind their decisions. Those polled favored offshore oil drilling by more than two to one: 62 percent said that they were in favor of it, while only 28 percent said the risks were too great.

GRAPHIC: CHART: In deciding whom you would like to see elected president this year, which issue will be most important to you? (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll) Chart details pie-chart.
Heading Into the Conventions: What is your opinion of the candidate?
 How likely is it that the candidate would be an effective commander in chief of the nation's military? Chart details bar graph for statistics for Obama and McCain two major opinion questions at hand. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); IRAQ WAR (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



522 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2172 words

HEADLINE: Movies

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'ANITA O'DAY: THE LIFE OF A JAZZ SINGER' (No rating, 1:32) This documentary about the great jazz singer who died in 2006 is a portrait of a woman who always lived by her own rules. Her total disregard for convention applied as much to singing as to her spectacularly messy life. 
 (Stephen Holden) 
 'BACHNA AE HASEENO' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) After just one (failed) movie, Ranbir Kapoor was anointed a star. In ''Bachna,'' his second, he plays a cad who woos three women, which leads to heartache, remorse and redemption. Mr. Kapoor's sweetness doesn't quite suit the Don Juan role, but he charms when contrite. Bipasha Basu adds some comic spice as a pampered, ill-tempered movie star. (Rachel Saltz)
 'BEAUTIFUL LOSERS' (No rating, 1:30) This fawning, self-serving documentary is directed by Aaron Rose, features Aaron Rose and is concerned with a group of middling, quasi-countercultural artists affiliated with a gallery founded by -- guess who? -- Aaron Rose. (Nathan Lee)
 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott) 
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives.
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DAYS AND CLOUDS' (No rating, 1:55, in Italian) Silvio Soldini's sad, grown-up film about a long-married couple in crisis suggests that Italy's middle class is as much under siege as that of the United States. In both countries, it appears, job security isn't what it used to be, and corporate downsizing is plunging more and more affluent families into abrupt financial tailspins. (Holden)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Holden)
 'A GIRL CUT IN TWO' (No rating, 1:50, in French) A rich, textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol, a sinister master of the art, who here returns to elegant, tight form with a beautifully directed story of a woman (Ludivine Sagnier) preyed upon by different men (Francois Berleand, Benoit Magimel) and her own warring desires. (Dargis)
 'GONZO: THE LIFE AND WORK OF DR. HUNTER S. THOMPSON' (R, 1:58) Alex Gibney's documentary is a thorough and fascinating illumination of its subject, the journalistic iconoclast who died in 2005. (Scott)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Perlman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'HENRY POOLE IS HERE' (PG, 1:44) With characters named Esperanza, Dawn and Patience that signal Deeper Meaning, this movie, which stars Luke Wilson as a dying man, traffics in the kind of inspirational kitsch that only a true believer could swallow. (Holden)
 'THE LAST MISTRESS' (No rating, 1:54, in French) An enthralling, often raw inquiry into cursed desire from the French writer and director Catherine Breillat, based on a 19th-century novel by Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly. A mesmerizing Asia Argento plays the mercurial courtesan who won't say no, and the luscious newcomer Fu'ad Ait Aattou plays the noble libertine who can't. (Dargis)
 'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MIRRORS' (R, 1:51) This minor chiller from Alexandre Aja features Kiefer Sutherland as an alcoholic ex-cop guarding the ruins of a burned-out department store whose spooky mirrors manipulate his reflection -- rather horribly, as it turns out. Though he offers several cringeworthy set pieces, Mr. Aja blows his entire Windex budget on an overcomplicated second half of amplified effects and diminishing returns. 
 (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden)
 'PATTI SMITH: DREAM OF LIFE' (No rating, 1:49) You may not learn everything you want to know about this punk godhead in Steven Sebring's impressionistic portrait -- a lovely, drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion -- but you learn just about everything you need. (Dargis)
 'PINEAPPLE EXPRESS' (R, 1:51) In the tradition of Cheech & Chong, Abbott and Costello, Hope and Crosby, Ricky and Lucy, Martin and Lewis, Rowan and Martin, Spicoli and Hand, Riggs and Murtaugh, dumb and dumber, right brain and left, peanut butter and jelly, bong hit and roach clip comes a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff. David Gordon Green directs; Seth Rogen and James Franco star. (Dargis)
 'SINGH IS KINNG' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) This hyped-up action comedy broke box-office records in India, a testament to the appeal of its star, Akshay Kumar, who shines as a bumbling villager with a surfeit of good intentions. He's a Capraesque hero who spreads Indian values by example, most conspicuously as the accidental leader of a feared crime gang in Australia. And -- Bollywood crossover dreams, anybody? -- Snoop Dogg raps in a remix of the title song at the end. (Saltz)
 'THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS 2' (PG-13, 1:57) In this rambling sequel to a 2005 hit, four friends, now entering college, are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living; the movie is an upbeat alternative to ''The Hills'' and its ilk. (Holden)
 'SIXTY SIX' (PG-13, 1:33) In this dolorous British comedy, a 12-year-old boy sees his dreams of an elaborate bar mitzvah jeopardized by England's triumphant march toward the 1966 World Cup final. Leaning heavily, if inoffensively, on ethnic stereotypes, the movie charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. (Catsoulis)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STAR WARS: THE CLONE WARS' (PG, 1:35) As a mechanical thrill ride, this digitally animated ''Star Wars'' saga is more or less as satisfying its blockbuster predecessors. As a movie, it completes the franchise's slow divorce from photography-based cinema as well as any relationship to credible human feeling. (Lee)
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis) 
 'SWING VOTE' (PG-13, 2:00) A pleasant muddle about life, liberty and the pursuit of Budweiser, starring Kevin Costner as a good ol' drunk whose vote will decide the next presidential election. Directed by the relative newcomer Joshua Michael Stern, this film has a Red State setup and a serious case of the blues. (Dargis) 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden) 
 'TROPIC THUNDER' (R, 1:47) A flashy, nasty, on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry, directed by Ben Stiller, who stars alongside Robert Downey Jr. (in blackface) and Jack Black (in itty- bitty bikini underwear). (Dargis) 
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'THE X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)
 Film Series
 D. W. GRIFFITH: 100 YEARS LATER (Saturday and Sunday) July 14 marked the 100th anniversary of the release of the first movie directed by D. W. Griffith, ''The Adventures of Dollie,'' a milestone Anthology Film Archives is observing this weekend with a program of six of Griffith's Biograph one-reelers on Saturday (including ''Dollie'') and a screening of his modernist masterpiece ''Intolerance'' (1916) on Sunday. The Griffith scholar Robert Haller will introduce both programs. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Dave Kehr) 
 NEW YORK KOREAN FILM FESTIVAL (Friday through Thursday) This 10-day festival features 14 new films from Korea, currently a red-hot center of cinematic activity, as fans of ''Oldboy'' and ''The Host'' do not need to be told. The lineup includes several of the country's top box-office successes from last year, including Lee Seong-han's old-school action film ''Spare'' (Sunday and Monday) and the colonial ghost story ''Epitaph'' (Saturday), directed by Jeong Beom-sik and Jeong Sik. Ahn Sung-ki, one of South Korea's most enduring stars (he won a best child actor award at the 1960 San Francisco Film Festival) and a favorite of the director Im Kwon-taek (''Chihwaseon''), will be honored with a four-film retrospective, and he'll be interviewed onstage Wednesday at the Korea Society, which is sponsoring the festival. Through Thursday, Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-3363, cinemavillage.com. Next Friday through Aug. 31, BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 623-2770, bam.org. Tickets are also available through the Korea Society, (212) 759-7525, koreanfilmfestival.org; $10. (Kehr)
 WOUNDED PRIDE, SIMMERING PASSION: ROBERTO GAVALDON (Friday through Thursday) One of the key directors of the Mexican cinema's golden age, Roberto Gavaldon worked in a wide variety of genres but specialized in thrillers, often collaborating with established writers like B. Traven and Jose Revueltas. This series begins Friday with his first solo work, ''La Barraca'' (1946), and continues with ''Macario'' (Friday, Sunday and Thursday), an Oscar-nominated 1960 fable of good versus evil based on a story by Traven and photographed by the great Gabriel Figueroa; ''Night Falls'' (Friday, Sunday and Tuesday), a 1952 film with Pedro Armendariz as a jai alai player blackmailed by the mob; and six other features. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11 (Kehr) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); POETRY (61%); MARRIAGE (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



523 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Maine Conservationists Reach Milestone in Plan to Buy 3 Dams

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
A Maine environmental coalition announced Thursday that it had raised the $25 million it needed to buy three dams from a power company under an agreement to restore a number of fish species in the Penobscot River. 
 The coalition, the Penobscot River Restoration Trust, will remove two of the three dams and build a fish run around the third, opening up 1,000 miles of the Penobscot and its tributaries, home to most of the country's Atlantic salmon population.
 The agreement, announced in 2004, was brokered among environmental groups, the federal government, the State of Maine, Native Americans and the PPL Corporation, the power company that owns the dams.
 The goal is to restore the struggling Atlantic salmon population as well as other native fish, including the American shad and river herring. All have had trouble getting above the dams to spawn, their access impeded on their return from the ocean. That will change with the purchase, which involves the three dams farthest downriver.
 About $15 million to buy the dams came from federal grants, while the rest of the $25 million was privately donated. Laura Rose Day, executive director of the Penobscot River Restoration Trust, said that the organization would most likely complete the purchase next year and that the two dams to be removed would probably be gone in 2011 or 2012. 
 Under the agreement, PPL will be permitted to make up for the loss of power by increasing the power generated at other dams the company owns along the Penobscot and its tributaries. 
 The state and environmental groups have spent years cleaning the river, once heavily polluted by paper mills and other factories that lined its banks. State officials hope the project will bring an economic lift to towns along the river, where many of those mills have closed.
 ''We have a cleaner river now, but it is nearly devoid of fish above the dams,'' Ms. Day said. ''This will bring these fish back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); FISHES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); PAPER MILLS (64%); PLANT CLOSINGS (64%)

COMPANY: PPL CORP (71%)

TICKER: PPL (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



524 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Oil Soars, Dollar Falls and Worries Stay

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Oil jumped more than $5 a barrel on Thursday and the dollar fell against the euro and the yen as raw material prices had one of their biggest bounces in weeks and financial stocks lingered in the red.
 The moves amounted to a sharp reversal of recent trends in the commodity and currency markets, but analysts cautioned against reading too much into a single day's session. The dollar has climbed to a six-month high against the euro. Oil prices have tumbled nearly 18 percent since reaching a record high on July 11. 
 But on Thursday, investors faced a host of economic troubles, including concern about international political tensions, dire straits at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and bleak reports on the prospects of Wall Street banks. 
 When trading settled, crude oil futures were $5.62 higher at $121.18 a barrel, up 4.9 percent for the day.
 The move helped depress most stocks, although a surge in shares of energy companies kept the market from ending the day in negative territory. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.25 percent and the Dow Jones industrials was 13 points higher.
 Some analysts pinned the increase in oil prices on the dollar, which fell against a broad batch of foreign currencies. Commodities like oil are priced in dollars, and are commonly used as a hedge against moves in the currency market. That means that oil prices rise when the dollar falls, and vice versa.
 An increase in tensions between Russia and the United States may also have played a role. American officials announced a deal on Wednesday to build a missile defense base in Poland, leading some traders to worry that Russia could respond by disrupting the flow of oil in Eastern Europe.
 ''The world seems to have awoken to the rise in geopolitical tensions and the risk in the last few days,'' said Jeffrey Nichols, managing director at American Precious Metals Advisors.
 But other oil analysts were unconvinced.
 ''Poland? Give me a break,'' said Fadel Gheit, who tracks the oil industry for Oppenheimer & Company. ''This is a knee-jerk financial reaction to a sharply lower dollar. People say, 'Where do I hide my money today?' You buy gold, and you buy oil.''
 Gold, a traditional hedge against the dollar, rose on Thursday by 2.9 percent, along with other raw materials. Cocoa futures rose 6.8 percent, and copper, heating oil and silver traded more than 4 percent higher. A measure of commodity prices, the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, rose by the most since June. 
 The dollar has enjoyed a surprising rebound in the last few weeks. On Thursday, some traders appeared to be pocketing their profits. The euro rose 1 percent to $1.4877, and the yen rose 1.3 percent against the dollar. The dollar also weakened against the British pound and the Canadian dollar.
 The Dow ended the day at 11,430.21, up 0.11 percent. The S.& P. 500 finished at 1,277.72. The Nasdaq composite index was off 0.36 percent to 2,380.38.
 Bond prices fell. The 10-year Treasury note fell 7/32, to 101 13/32 and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.83 percent, up from 3.80 percent late Wednesday.
 In the stock market, shares of big banks and financial firms tumbled again, as fears that the government will be forced to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage buyers, continued to bother investors. 
 Although they are at the center of the current concerns about credit, shares of Fannie and Freddie performed better than earlier in the week, when both suffered sharp declines. Shares of Fannie rose more than 10 percent and Freddie shares lost 2.8 percent. The stock of Lehman Brothers, the beleaguered investment bank, fell a penny after climbing back from deeper declines during the day.
 Analyst downgrades took a toll on shares of investment banks as some investors began to buckle down for another round of write-downs and losses. Goldman Sachs traded 1.1 percent lower and JPMorgan Chase was off 2 percent.
 Shares of energy companies moved higher on the rise in oil. Exxon Mobil and Chevron, two big Dow components, both rose about 2 percent.
 The day's swings were just the latest in a period of volatility for the markets. 
 ''Violent turns in the commodity mark and the stock market have become fairly routine as of late,'' said Edward Yardeni, an investment strategist. The moves on Thursday offer little evidence for what is coming in the future, he said. 
 ''The market has a very limited attention span and focus,'' Mr. Yardeni said. ''We're all scrambling around to come up with the explanations du jour.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Chart details line graph for 30-year rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); FUTURES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); TRENDS (77%); SILVER MARKETS (77%); COCOA MARKETS (72%); BRITISH POUND (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



525 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Following the Kids to College

BYLINE: By LOUISE TUTELIAN

 BODY:
JIM AND M. J. BERRIEN'S gracious Cape Cod-style house rests on six acres, set back from a country road in Middlebury, Vt. Black locust trees frame the entrance. In the back, a spacious sun porch with a cathedral ceiling opens to a mahogany deck where the Berriens entertain. Inside, blue-tinted glasses etched with a Middlebury College logo sit on the bar, and a newspaper clipping headlined ''Reid It and Weep'' is posted on the refrigerator door. 
 The Berriens' daughter Reid, shown wielding her lacrosse stick in the clipping's photo, has been a prominent athlete at Middlebury. Her parents barely missed a minute of the action. They didn't have to: their second home, purchased from the college's former president, is just over two miles from campus. 
 ''Just what every kid wants -- their parent moves in, right?'' said M. J. Berrien, who, with her husband, the president and publisher of the Forbes Magazine Group, keeps a main residence in Westport, Conn. ''But we've always been very active in her sports life and we wanted to be there for her games. That was the whole idea.'' 
 The Berriens were there for four years of field hockey and lacrosse, attending virtually every game and regularly hosting parties, tailgates and team sleepovers. Their daughter didn't mind. In fact, she said, she appreciated having the parents' home nearby for a home-cooked meal or a quiet night's sleep away from her dorm room. 
 The four-bedroom house has an oversized fireplace, a table tennis table, a pool table and a big-screen television. Those amenities will still come in handy even though Reid Berrien, 22, graduated in May: she is a new assistant coach of Middlebury's field hockey team. 
 And her parents will be there to watch a new season. Having a house in Middlebury has been such a good experience, M. J. Berrien said, that ''we're keeping this house indefinitely.'' 
 Real estate professionals were the first to figure out that parental purchases of ''kiddie condos'' for college students, in lieu of paying for dorms, made sound economic sense. That practice is now common. 
 But some parents are investing in college towns in an unexpected new way: they're following their kids to college. From South Bend, Ind., to Oxford, Miss., from Hanover, N.H., to Knoxville, Tenn., they are buying second homes for themselves near campuses where their children are enrolled. 
 Many, like the Berriens, want front-row seats to watch their family athletes perform. Some seek a gathering place for football games or family holidays. Others long for a retreat that is also a possible place to retire with the amenities of a college town -- and why not the one where they have children attending? 
 Coldwell Banker has been tracking the phenomenon informally in its annual College Home Price Comparison Index, which ranks average home prices in more than 300 college towns across the nation. 
 ''Our brokers told us story after story about this happening,'' said David Siroty, a corporate spokesman for Coldwell Banker Real Estate. ''Parents buy a place to visit when their son or daughter is in school, and then they become a part of the town, they have friends there, they love the vibe of a college town -- the culture, arts, sports.'' 
 Parents are more likely to buy in towns where hotel rooms are hard to come by, or where rates are sky-high on big weekends, realtors said. Small college towns like Middlebury, Williamstown, Mass., and Hanover, N.H., are appealing but offer little more for accommodations than small inns or an inconvenient motel miles away. In big college football towns like South Bend, Ind., even large hotels fill up fast -- and rates can top $400 a night. 
 Paula Olsiewski and John Healey of New York City had already played musical hotel rooms in South Bend when their older daughter, Georgia, was at Notre Dame. By the time her sister Vivian, 19, decided to go there, they didn't want to be frustrated again. 
 ''I said to my husband, 'Let's just buy a place out there,' '' Ms. Olsiewski, a program director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York, recalled. 
 She and her husband, who is chief of orthopedics at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, decided to build instead and selected a lot with a view of the famed Notre Dame dome. Their four-bedroom, three-bathroom ranch was completed in August 2006, the summer before Vivian's freshman year.
 It is open and modern, completely different from the family's classic six-room apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side. They paid $306,000 for the house, more than they had planned, but it was worth it to them.
 ''We can accommodate plenty of guests and we entertain here all the time,'' said Ms. Olsiewski, an avid cook and tailgate party hostess. The couple flies to South Bend about once a month and celebrates Thanksgiving there, always including friends of Vivian's who can't get home for the holiday.
 Vivian Healey was skeptical about her parents' planting themselves in her backyard. 
 ''This seemed like the ultimate hovering,'' she said, alluding to this college generation's nickname for overinvolved parents: ''hovercraft'' parents. ''I fought it. But my mom has done a really good job of making her own friends and doing her own things when she is out here.'' 
 Her mother, meanwhile, wanted to make one thing perfectly clear: ''This is MY home -- it's not a dorm.'' 
 DenYelle Kenyon, an assistant scientist at Sanford Research at the University of South Dakota who wrote her dissertation on the parent-student relationship during the transition to college, said that such boundary-setting is important. 
 ''Research has found that the parent-child relationship grows better once the child has left the house,'' she said. ''Parents should be careful not to interrupt that process.'' 
 VANESSA NEWMAN of Chevy Chase, Md., admitted that her first reaction when her mother, Carol Kramer LeBlanc, divulged her plans to buy a home 15 minutes from Colorado Springs, where Ms. Newman attends school at Colorado College, was: ''Are you kidding me? You're following me across the country?'' 
 Mrs. LeBlanc first saw the funky, artsy town of Manitou Springs at the base of the Rockies when Vanessa, a talented soccer player, was at school for a week of preseason practice before her freshman year. With time on her hands, Mrs. LeBlanc explored the community, once known for its sulfuric hot springs but now more likely to draw visitors to crystal healing shops and coffee bars. She headed home smitten by the lack of congestion and the laid-back way of life. 
 ''I started looking online, telling myself, 'This might be interesting for the future,' '' she said. ''Of course, once you start looking. ...'' 
 By the end of September, Mrs. LeBlanc and her husband, Michael, were looking -- and bidding. They bought a four-bedroom, four-bathroom, 3,500-square-foot house built in the early 1900s. It includes two master bedrooms, each with its own fireplace. It cost in the $600,000's.
 The LeBlancs, who both work for the federal government in Washington, visit four or five times a year on long weekends and in the summer. Their blended family of five children and two grandchildren have on occasion all gathered at the house. Ms. Newman, who is 20 and the youngest child in the family, studied there twice a week to survive organic chemistry, but typically visits once every few weeks. 
 ''I found myself not doing my laundry until my mom was in town, so I could hang out with her at the house while I did it,'' she said. 
 Despite glowing descriptions of family get-togethers, sideline support and easygoing drop-ins from a child, some experts voiced concern about parents who stay in such close proximity to their kids. 
 ''We've heard about boomerang kids who return home after college, but this is kind of like boomerang parents,'' said Alan Reifman, a professor of human development and family studies at Texas Tech University and an expert in the field of emerging adulthood. ''There is a potential for intrusiveness.'' 
 Helen E. Johnson, a consultant to colleges on parent relations and author of ''Don't Tell Me What to Do, Just Send Money: The Essential Parenting Guide to the College Years,'' said that parents should make sure they're buying a home for the right reasons. To do that, she said, they need to ask themselves: ''Would I like to be in this town even if my child wasn't here?'' and ''Does this have more to do with my need than theirs?''
 ''You might be making your child more fragile, not less,'' she added. 
 One more question has to be answered at some point: Will parents stay after graduation day? Carol Kramer LeBlanc has a vision of her home in Manitou Springs as the ideal retirement place: it's in a beautiful setting, big enough to accommodate all her loved ones, and has plenty to do all year round. 
 Paula Olsiewski said she has been seduced by South Bend's friendliness, the appeal of the sports scene and the fact that her older daughter, Georgia, is only two hours away. Besides, she added, as the mother of a Notre Dame alumna, she has already seen the future. 
 ''Georgia and her friends love to use the house for their various reunion activities,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STAYING CLOSE: Paula Olsiewski in her South Bend, Ind., house near Notre Dame with her daughters Vivian, left, and Georgia Healey.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 STAYING ON: M. J. and Jim Berrien in their second home in Vermont, which they bought to visit their daughter at Middlebury College. But ''we're keeping this house indefinitely,'' Mrs. Berrien said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); FIELD HOCKEY (75%); LACROSSE (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (51%) VERMONT, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (71%); TENNESSEE, USA (71%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



526 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; DANCE REVIEW TREY MCINTYRE PROJECT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Company Man: Freelance Choreographer No More

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
This might not be the most propitious of economic moments to start a ballet company. Then again, it never is, and Trey McIntyre, a 39-year-old Kansas-born choreographer who has been a prolific and successful freelancer since his early 20s, has taken the plunge. On Wednesday night at Jacob's Pillow, at the Ted Shawn Theater, Mr. McIntyre officially abandoned the joys of the freelance life with the debut of his new fulltime troupe, the Trey McIntyre Project. 
 There are obvious comparisons to be made between Mr. McIntyre's enterprise and that of Christopher Wheeldon, who took a similarly brave (or rash) step by founding his new company, Morphoses, last year. But the stakes are lower for Mr. McIntyre, whose group will be based in Boise, Idaho, and whose reputation is solid without any of the heir-to-Balanchine fanfare that has accompanied Mr. Wheeldon's career. 
 Watching Mr. McIntyre's work, it's easy to see why he is successful and why he is less heralded. On the Jacob's Pillow program, which included two premieres and a 2003 work, there were some obvious influences: Twyla Tharp, Jerome Robbins and William Forsythe, whose sharp allegro footwork and pulled-back shoulders and arms permeate quite a bit of the choreography. 
 Mr. McIntyre stitches these references into seamless wholes -- he is above all an excellent craftsman, moving dancers in beautiful spatial patterns, flawlessly interchanging ensembles and soloists, and getting the dancers on and off the stage with unobtrusive skill. He is also possessed of an easy showmanship; he knows how to set off his dancers to great advantage, how to time a movement to make an audience gasp, and how to paint a striking stage picture.
 But his work rarely feels wholly personal, wholly possessed of a voice of its own. That may in fact be part of its appeal; what is new is almost by definition disorienting and difficult to see at first. Mr. McIntyre's choreography rarely contains such challenges, but when it does it offers a glimpse of what might make him great rather than good. 
 Such a glimpse occurs in his new ''Leatherwing Bat,'' which beautifully straddles the line between the whimsical and the poignant, never allowing easy definition of its intent. It's set to songs by Peter, Paul and Mary, and the willfully childlike lyrics (''I've been swallowed by a boa constrictor,'' ''Daddy's taking us to the zoo'') work in odd yet resonant tandem with the focused movement, which shakes ballet's tight forms into looser shapes with a lovely fluidity and use of idiomatic, everyday gesture. 
 Mr. McIntyre's six dancers form a small world of their own -- loving partners, friends, responsible parents, sleepy children -- in not-quite-literal echoes of the songs. The effect is both charming and disconcerting, with a hovering sense of the imminent loss of innocence underlining the cheerful engagements onstage. At the end of the piece, the excellent Brett Perry and John Michael Schert (a beautiful dancer of Apollonian proportions and elegance) move with truncated, graceful inflections to the final verses of ''Puff, the Magic Dragon.'' Then, as the lyrics tell of Puff's abandonment, Mr. Perry leaves and Mr. Schert backs away slowly into the fading light. It's a moment of sudden melancholy, and a suggestion that Mr. McIntyre can make magic. 
 The other premiere on the program, ''Surrender,'' is less successful. A duo, set to the odd musical trio of Grand Funk Railroad, Tchaikovsky (''Dance of the Mirlitons'' from ''The Nutcracker'') and Regina Spektor, it tries hard for quirky allure in a Tharpian mix (sudden catches and throws recalling ''Nine Sinatra Songs'' keep recurring) of male-female aggression, seduction and dependence. Nicely performed by Chanel DaSilva and Jason Hartley (a balding, stocky man who moves with quicksilver agility), it's just about the sum of its parts.
 The final piece on the program, ''The Reassuring Effects (of Form and Poetry),'' is a bright and playful manifestation of contemporary ballet prowess. Set to Dvorak's Serenade in E (Op. 22,) it offers a Robbins-like vision of dancers as a community (and echoes, presumably deliberately, the opening of the slow movement of Robbins's ''Brandenburg'') but sharpens the movement with studied inelegancies and sudden alterations of classical positions. 
 Mr. McIntyre is almost always wonderfully musical, and if the relentless comings and goings of the eight dancers starts to blur after a while, he does at several moments evoke a lovely sense of mystery in his slow revolving groupings and occasionally cryptic gestures. But not often enough. ''The Reassuring Effects'' is perhaps a little too reassuring; Mr. McIntyre is capable of making us work harder.
 The Trey McIntyre Project will perform through Saturday at the Ted Shawn Theater at Jacob's Pillow, Becket, Mass.; (413) 243-0745, jacobspillow.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brett Perry, a member of the Trey McIntyre Project, performing in ''Leatherwing Bat'' at Jacob's Pillow in Beckett, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMITAVA SARKAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); DANCERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); THEATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (71%) IDAHO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



527 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Reports Offer Mixed Signs on Economy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic states declined less rapidly in August while weekly jobless claims fell, according to two reports on Thursday that revealed morsels of good news in an otherwise bleak economic environment. 
 At the same time, an index of leading economic indicators published by the Conference Board posted its largest one-month decline in nearly a year, suggesting that the underlying picture continued to deteriorate.
 The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its business activity index rose to minus 12.7 in August, the highest since December 2007, from minus 16.3 in July. Readings below zero point to contraction in the sector, which has been shrinking since late last year by this measure.
 Weekly applications for unemployment benefits, meanwhile, fell by 13,000, to a seasonally adjusted 432,000 in the week ending Aug. 16.
 Fewer people applied for jobless benefits than economists had expected, but the number of jobless claims remained above the threshold generally associated with recessions.
 ''The recent spike hence suggests that the U.S. economy has entered a dark period, which is likely to be marked by increased joblessness,'' said Tony Crescenzi, a market strategist at Miller Tabak. ''Many are expecting the U.S. economy to contract in the fourth quarter, possibly by a large amount.''
 The leading indicators added to those fears. The Conference Board's index plunged 0.7 percent, to 101.2, the lowest since October 2004, when it was 100.7 percent. The decline was more than three times what Wall Street had forecast .
 ''A few months ago, there was discussion about a second-half recovery,'' said Ken Goldstein, a labor economist with the Conference Board. ''If there's a second-half recovery, it'll be the second half of 2009.''
 Building permits, stock prices and jobless benefit claims all weighed on the index, more than offsetting improvements in the interest rate spread and consumer expectations, the Conference Board said.
 Retrenchment was also the message from manufacturers. While the Philadelphia Fed's survey showed signs of improvement, much of it was tied to last month's decline in energy costs.
 Strip that out, and the prevailing sentiment among business executives was still one of reluctance and uncertainty.
 ''The region's manufacturing sector remains weak,'' the Philadelphia Fed said in its report.
 Improvement came mainly from the biggest drop in prices paid since October 2005, when the economy recovered from the shocks of Hurricane Katrina, which devastated the Gulf Coast. The prices-paid index dived to 57.5, from 75.6. 
 In the last six months, the index has risen only once, by 0.1 percent in April. It has fallen 0.9 percent over the same time period, the board said.
 The coincident index, a measure of current economic conditions, rose 0.1 percent in July, mostly because of strengthening industrial production, the board said. The lagging index shot up 0.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100.(Source: The Conference Board) Chart details line graph for May, June and July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); HURRICANES (60%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



528 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: At the Navy Yard, a Call to Preserve Admirals' Row

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Admirals' Row, a collection of historic buildings at the southwestern edge of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, housed high-ranking officers from the 1840s until the early 1970s. 
 The city wants the Army National Guard, which owns the property, to transfer the land so that the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation can demolish the houses and replace them with a supermarket and a large industrial building. Residents of nearby public housing projects would be given preference in hiring.
 But preservation groups like the New York Landmarks Conservancy and the Historic Districts Council want to save the ruined buildings -- 10 houses, built between the 1840s and 1901, and a timber shed from about the 1830s. 
 The shed, which is 33 feet tall, 60 feet wide and 103 feet long, was used to store new wooden ship masts as they cured, and it is believed to be the only such surviving shed at a naval yard in the country. Preservationists think the shed is prime for ''adaptive reuse'' as, say, a farmers' market or even light manufacturing.
 On Wednesday, the Municipal Art Society presented six alternative plans to the Army National Guard, arguing that the historic buildings could be incorporated into the new retail and industrial space planned at the six-acre site slated for redevelopment.
 Lisa Kersavage, director of advocacy and policy at the Municipal Art Society, said its plan would not imperil any of the economic development for the site, or the job creation that would accompany such development. 
 ''Creative site planning with involvement of the community enabled us to create alternative plans that meet the Navy Yard's program for a grocery store and retail and industrial space while allowing for the restoration and reuse of the historic buildings,'' she said in a statement.
 Convincing the development corporation, however, could be a tall order.
 Andrew Kimball, president of the corporation, said in a statement that saving the buildings would not be economically feasible. 
 The corporation's plan calls for more than 300 parking spaces around a 65,000-square-foot supermarket, about the size of the Fairway in Red Hook. 
 Ms. Kersavage said that the parking could be reconfigured or reduced, producing ''a greener and more pedestrian-friendly site.''
 The Army National Guard is expected to draft a memorandum of agreement with the city to govern the future use of the land, perhaps by late fall, according to a consultant for the Guard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) The 11 buildings of Admirals' Row, top, are in considerable decay. In one proposal, houses along Flushing Avenue in Brooklyn would be preserved, with stores and a space for pedestrians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURDICK/ARCHITECTURE FOR HUMANITY NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



529 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Serious Pleasures: Season's Sweet Spots

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
As ''The Dark Knight'' starts to relax its grip on the summer box office, consider the roughly 100-to-1 ratio between its grosses and those of the art-film hit of the summer, the French thriller ''Tell No One.'' Directed by Guillaume Canet, from Harlan Coben's best-selling novel, it may not be high art, but to my mind it is the best mystery in the Hitchcock tradition since ''North by Northwest.'' If its popularity is minuscule by Batman standards, ''Tell No One'' has found the elusive sweet spot where intelligent storytelling, superior filmmaking and escapist entertainment fuse into something resembling a classic.
 Lately Hollywood appears to have realized that if its blockbusters were a little more like ''Tell No One,'' they would make even more money and earn more respect. And so ''The Dark Knight,'' in the hands of an adventurous director (Christopher Nolan), addresses a collective awareness of a chaotic world and its nihilistic antihero (Heath Ledger's Joker) suggests a scary incarnation of any number of modern despots. 
 If ''Wall-E,'' created by the geniuses at Pixar, is a cute love story about two lonely robots, it is also a futuristic satire of the planet trashed by rampant consumerism and a populace drugged by material comforts. The bumbling superheroics in ''Hancock'' suggest a comic fable about the unreliability of technology. Robert Downey Jr.'s Iron Man is a witty, psychologically complex superhero. 
 But if these movies are enriched by their darker undercurrents, that darkness is discreetly sandwiched into the action and special effects. Distraction is still their primary goal. 
 The situation is still reversed in the summer's art films, several of which portray an unjust world in which ordinary people are at the mercy of the rich and powerful. The lives of the characters in ''Tell No One,'' ''Frozen River,'' ''Days and Clouds'' and ''A Girl Cut in Two'' are endangered by forces beyond their control. A fundamental question facing serious filmmakers who want their movies to be seen is how unvarnished the reality contemplated by their films can be before audiences become alienated. 
 Below is a checklist of 10 of the best art films in theaters this summer, listed in descending order of personal preference. ''The Edge of Heaven'' and ''Trumbo'' have ended their runs in New York; the others are all playing somewhere in the city. If they are not playing in a theater near you, make a note to put them on your rental queue. 
 THE EDGE OF HEAVEN Six disparate characters collide in this intensely moving cross-cultural drama by the German-born Turkish filmmaker Fatih Akin. They include a boorish Turkish widower living in Germany; a prostitute he shelters in exchange for conjugal favors; his son, a mild-mannered, well-educated professor of German; the prostitute's daughter, a fearless political activist; the young German woman she falls in love with; and her lover's strait-laced mother, a former hippie. As these complicated people traverse geographic and cultural boundaries (two go to jail), Mr. Akin portrays them with compassion and understanding. Hanna Schygulla, Fassbinder's muse, gives a quietly magnificent performance as the lover's mother. (On DVD Oct. 14.)
 TELL NO ONE This French thriller has everything you would want in a 21st-century version of a Hitchcock mystery: a kindhearted pediatrician who finds himself on the run, a curvaceous murder victim who may not be dead, an extended chase through Parisian thoroughfares, ''Marnie''-worthy horsemanship, the scariest female villain since Lotte Lenya in ''From Russia With Love'' and a plot as complex as that of ''The Big Sleep'' but whose pieces actually fit. Jeff Buckley's heartrending version of ''Lilac Wine'' on the soundtrack gives the film a wrenching emotional tug. (On DVD Nov. 25.)
 FROZEN RIVER Courtney Hunt's somber film, set in upstate New York near the Canadian border at Christmastime, evokes a perfect storm of present-day woes: illegal immigration, ethnic tension, depressed real estate, high gas prices and grinding poverty. Here is where a financially strapped mother (Melissa Leo) teams up with a Mohawk Indian woman from a nearby reservation to earn money smuggling illegal aliens across the frozen St. Lawrence River. Ms. Leo's awards-worthy performance is an unsentimental depiction of one woman's flinty courage.
 THE LAST MISTRESS The French feminist director Catherine Breillat's erotic costume drama, adapted from Jules-Amedee Barbey d'Aurevilly's novel ''Une Vieille Maitresse'' and set in 1830s Paris, examines the consuming 10-year affair of a sloe-eyed dandy (Fu'ad Ait Aattou) and a hot-blooded Spanish-Italian courtesan and ultimate femme fatale (Asia Argento). The study of unbridled sexual combat between two willful sensualists paints the lovers as 19th-century forerunners of what you imagine the relationship of the young Mick and Bianca Jagger to have been. 
 A GIRL CUT IN TWO The French master Claude Chabrol's newest film, loosely inspired by the 1906 murder of the New York architect Stanford White, is an icy examination of class divisions, ruthless sexual gamesmanship and crushing social machinery. Its putative heroine (Ludivine Sagnier) is an attractive television weather girl who finds herself the object of a power struggle between a married, womanizing author who is decades older (Francois Berleand) and a spoiled multimillionaire playboy (Benoit Magimel) who wants her as his trophy. When the fight turns nasty, she becomes the victim. 
 VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONAWoody Allen's finest movie in many years is a warm-blooded homage to Francois Truffaut's ''Jules and Jim'' set in the happy European city of Barcelona. This film's smoldering answer to Jeanne Moreau's Catherine is Penelope Cruz's Maria Elena, a bohemian spitfire whose tempestuous relationship with her ex-husband and fellow-artist Juan Antonio (Javier Bardem) is a combustible clash of egos and libidos. When two American tourists, the strait-laced Vicki (Rebecca Hall) and the adventurous Cristina (Scarlett Johansson), become entangled with Juan Antonio, the movie gives off heat. The biggest drawback is the pompous male narrator. 
 TRUMBO Peter Askin's stirring biography of the blacklisted screenwriter Dalton Trumbo makes you long for a return of the kind of grand epistolary eloquence that has all but vanished in the age of e-mail. The documentary, adapted from Christopher Trumbo's 2003 play about his father, features excerpts from Dalton Trumbo's letters collected in the 1999 book ''Additional Dialogue.'' The readings by a battery of distinguished actors elevate the musings into forceful, sometimes witty quasi-Shakespearean soliloquies on justice, sex and Hollywood. News clips from half a century ago showing the Congressional hearings at which left-wing writers were rudely interrogated recount the chilling history of the blacklist.
 MAN ON WIRE On Aug. 7, 1974, the French aerialist Philippe Petit spent 45 minutes walking, dancing and languishing 1,350 feet above the ground on a 200-foot cable strung between the World Trade Center's twin towers. With interviews and re-enactments, James Marsh's documentary portrays the elaborate preparations for the feat as machinations in a real-life heist movie. Their secrecy also eerily recalls the terrorist plans behind the 9/11 attack, although the movie includes no references to it. (On DVD Dec. 9.)
 DAYS AND CLOUDS It is happening everywhere. A middle-aged businessman in Genoa is abruptly fired from his high-paying job in the company he helped found 20 years earlier and struggles to regain his footing. This Italian film, directed by Silvio Soldini, is a hardheaded examination of the relationship between income, self-esteem and the network of relationships, including marriage, that are suddenly imperiled when the economic rug is pulled out. (On DVD Jan. 6.) 
 ELEGYBen Kingsley, playing Philip Roth's sex-crazed alter ego David Kepesh from the novel ''The Dying Animal,'' gives an ominous portrait of an intellectual celebrity as a selfish, entitled rat. As he manipulates the affections of a student he seduces (a miscast Penelope Cruz) and his longtime lover (Patricia Clarkson), he emerges as a self-pitying 60-something narcissist obsessed with his diminishing virility. Less comically pathetic than in the novel, Kepesh as played by Mr. Kingsley is the morally repulsive embodiment of masculine privilege. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Francois Cluzet in the French thriller ''Tell No One''
Hanna Schygulla in ''The Edge of Heaven''
Asia Argento and Fu'ad Ait Aattou in ''The Last Mistress,'' a costume drama set in 1830s Paris
a scene from ''Frozen River,'' directed by Courtney Hunt
and Benoit Magimel and Ludivine Sagnier in ''A Girl Cut in Two,'' Claude Chabrol's newest film. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE, FROM LEFT, MUSIC BOX FILMS
YASAMIN KIYISINDA/STRAND RELEASING)(PHOTOGRAPHS BELOW, FROM LEFT, IFC FILMS
JORY SUTTON/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS
IFC FILMS
)((E1)
Ben Kingsley and Penelope Cruz in ''Elegy,'' directed by Isabel Coixet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMUEL GOLDWYN FILMS)
The blacklisted writers Dalton Trumbo, left (the subject of ''Trumbo''), and John Howard Lawson. PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Antonio Albanese and Margherita Buy in ''Days and Clouds,'' directed by Silvio Soldini. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILM MOVEMENT)(E14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) FRANCE (58%); UNITED STATES (50%)

TITLE: Edge of Heaven, The (Movie)>; Tell No One (Movie)>; Frozen River (Movie)>; Last Mistress, The (Movie)>; Girl Cut in Two, A (Movie)>; Vicky Cristina Barcelona (Movie)>; Trumbo (Movie)>; Man on Wire (Movie)>; Days and Clouds (Movie)>; Elegy (Movie)>; Edge of Heaven, The (Movie)>; Tell No One (Movie)>; Frozen River (Movie)>; Last Mistress, The (Movie)>; Girl Cut in Two, A (Movie)>; Vicky Cristina Barcelona (Movie)>; Trumbo (Movie)>; Man on Wire (Movie)>; Days and Clouds (Movie)>; Elegy (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



530 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: No Profit Without A Risk

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the credit boom that preceded the current bust was the belief of professional investors that they had found a way to increase their profits without taking on risk.
 Very sophisticated financial models showed no risk whatsoever in AAA-rated mortgage securities. The underlying mortgages might lose money, the models showed, but built-in safeguards assured that the securities were well protected.
 It turned out the models were wrong.
 The idea that the route to higher profit runs through higher risk has been around for a long time. The phrase ''nothing ventured, nothing gained,'' dates back to Geoffrey Chaucer in 1374, about six centuries before computers began to run regressions to find ways to get rich without risk. 
 The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which is supposed to guarantee that those of us with pensions will get paid even if our employers go broke, has a $14 billion deficit. But it claims to have found a way to climb out of that hole while reducing the risk of its investments. 
 It plans to move a lot of money out of bonds and into stocks, with sizable investments going into real estate and private equity funds. 
 Its success or failure may matter to people who do not have pensions, but do pay taxes. Under the law, the government is not obligated to cover a shortfall at the P.B.G.C., just as it had no obligation to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 In reality, it is hard to imagine Congress refusing to come up with money if the alternative were to see pictures of elderly people whose pensions were being cut or terminated because the government would not stand by the agency it created.
 ''What we're doing here is literally less risky,'' Charles E. F. Millard, the director of the guaranty corporation, told me this week. Or as he put it in an article for Pensions and Benefit Daily, a trade publication, ''The two most important facts about the new investment policy are that it significantly improves the probability the P.B.G.C. will be able to meet its obligations, and that it does so while taking less short-term and long-term risk.''
 The risk reduction came from greater diversification, he said. 
 ''If sixth-graders in America took finance, I could say to you that, 'As every sixth-grader knows, diversification mitigates risk, and this policy is substantially more diversified, and that is why it has a lower standard deviation.' ''
 More return. Less risk. Who could object?
 A lot of people, it turns out. I asked Peter L. Bernstein, the author of some of the best books on finance I have ever read, among them, ''Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk,'' about the change in investment strategy. He agreed that it was likely to improve returns, but the part about risk left him shaking his head.
 ''Diversification does reduce volatility, but the risk of a wipeout in the economy can only be hedged by owning Treasury bonds,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''So the big downside risk that really matters is not reduced by the greater diversification in the new portfolio. Smaller downdrafts, yes; lower volatility in normal times, yes; and much greater upsides, yes. No argument about the upsides. It is the downsides where I do not see where they can say what they say.''
 The new policy differs greatly from the old one, which was adopted in 2004 -- after the agency's paper surplus was wiped out as share prices slid from 2000 to 2002. The 2004 policy called for only 25 percent in stocks, although in practice the agency never got it down to that level. The argument then was that the P.B.G.C. should act like an insurance company and seek to match the maturity of its assets to its liabilities.
 ''If we didn't match our liabilities, but just sort of shot for the moon, if you will, the taxpayer would be providing portfolio insurance for our bets in the market,'' said Steven A. Kandarian, who was then the agency's executive director.
 Zvi Bodie, a finance professor at Boston University who served as a consultant to the P.B.G.C. and helped write the old policy, says the fundamental flaw in a heavy reliance on stocks is that it is precisely a fall in the value of the American stock market that the agency is insuring against. Not only do pension funds own a lot of stocks -- and become more likely to fail if share prices plunge -- but the backup guarantee of a pension fund is the value of the equity of the company that established the pension plan.
 Mr. Bodie, never one for understatement, compares the P.B.G.C. relying on stocks with an insurance company investing the proceeds from hurricane insurance premiums in Florida real estate.
 The Congressional Budget Office, in a review of the policy, put it more gently. ''The new strategy is likely to produce higher returns, on average, over the long run. But the strategy also increases the risk that P.B.G.C. will not have sufficient assets to cover retirees' benefit payments when the economy and financial markets are weak.''
 ''By investing a greater share of its assets in risky securities,'' the report said, ''P.B.G.C. is more likely to experience a decline in the value of its portfolio during an economic downturn -- the point at which it is most likely to have to assume responsibility for a larger number of underfunded pension plans.''
 Mr. Millard, a presidential appointee who is both a former investment banker and a former Republican member of the New York City Council, says all that was taken into account, and that the reality he had to deal with was that the corporation has about $68 billion in assets and $82 billion in obligations. ''The point of this policy is to substantially increase the likelihood that we will be able to pay our bills,'' he said.
 Told of Mr. Bernstein's comments, he replied, ''That person must believe we should be 100 percent invested in Treasuries, and leave Congress to write the check. That is moral hazard.'' 
 ''It is important,'' Mr. Millard added, ''not to get seduced by the lore of the high-math, high-logic guys.''
 Part of the argument concerns the nature of risk. Mr. Millard points out that the corporation's consultant, Rocaton Investment Advisors, calculated that over a 20-year period, the new policy would produce much better returns under the worst circumstances than would be produced under the old policy, which relied more heavily on Treasuries and high-quality corporate bonds.
 How can that be? The stock market may not be likely to collapse, but it might. It is hard to imagine the government not paying its bills, given that it can print dollars.
 When I asked that question of Joe Nankof, a Rocaton partner, he said the ''worst case'' term ''is just used for labeling purposes. It is not meant to suggest it is the worst possible case.''
 Instead, it is the worst case that, under Rocaton's assumptions, has a 1 percent chance of occurring if the new policy is followed for 20 years. Anything worse, Mr. Millard told me, should be viewed as ''statistically insignificant.''
 Some of Rocaton's assumptions were challenged this week by the Government Accountability Office, which argued that the new policy posed more risk than the guaranty corporation acknowledged, and more risk than the old policy posed. But it agreed that the policy would probably produce better returns.
 Rocaton's analysis is based significantly on the use of standard deviation, a measure of how far from the average something is likely to be. The smaller the standard deviation, the smaller the expected difference between the return you get and the one you expected.
 One catch is that if something has not happened before, the model may assume it has little if any chance of ever happening. The rating agencies that determined mortgage securities were safe had models that assumed home prices would not fall more than 5 percent. No doubt they viewed the chances of what actually happened as being statistically insignificant. 
 The other problem is that it is foolish to view standard deviation as the only measure of risk. The market value of a long-term Treasury bond will fluctuate over the years as interest rates rise and fall. But it will eventually pay off at par.
 Rocaton's report includes its estimates of standard deviation for various asset classes. If you think that is the same as risk, then you think that real estate investing has relatively little risk. Under Rocaton's numbers, a portfolio of hedge funds would have less risk than a portfolio of junk bonds, and either would have less risk than long-term Treasuries. How would you react if your broker suggested you reduce the risk of your investment portfolio by selling Treasuries and buying junk bonds and hedge funds?
 The guaranty corporation's new investment policy is not a wildly aggressive one. Despite their perceived low risk, the corporation will not invest in hedge funds. Investment profits probably -- but not certainly -- will be higher. What is certain is that this has provided a way for the Bush administration and Congress to put off any hard decisions about financing the $14 billion deficit at the P.B.G.C.
 The real risk is that the deficit will grow, and that instead of writing a $14 billion check now, Congress may have to write a much larger one later. That may be a risk worth taking, but it is a real risk nonetheless.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation: Assets Liabilities.(Source: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) Chart details bar graph for Assets Liabilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); WRITERS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (70%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



531 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
LISETTE MODEL
 Zabriskie Gallery
 41 East 57th Street
 Through Aug. 29
 It is not nice to make fun of people who look funny or strange, but they do make hard-to-resist subjects for photography. See, for example, the photographs of Diane Arbus, or consider the human curiosities portrayed by Lisette Model (1901-83), who was Arbus's teacher in the 1950s and is represented in this exhibition by 12 of her best-known images, all from the 1930s and '40s.
 Model photographed people she came across on the street, in cafes, at the beach and in other public places. Her subjects usually seem unaware of the camera, but there is a close-up intimacy about the photographs and a curiously exaggerated, almost cinematic quality to the people they depict. They look like actors in costume. But however eccentric they may appear, Model's people don't seem freakish as Arbus's often do. They may be odd, but they have a self-possessed dignity. 
 The skinny, elderly lady in heavy makeup with a big lacy collar and a white veil over her face and the middle-aged midget with the pensive, slightly worried expression on his weathered countenance are both viewed with extraordinary empathy. The egg-shaped newspaper seller with his round visage and rotund stomach under his grimy white shirt and the squarely built woman dressed head to toe in a floral-print dress and wide-brimmed hat are comical figures, but they are not subjects of mean-spirited mockery. 
 The exhibition also includes a handful of photographs of American jazz musicians in action. But those professional performers are less interesting than the nonprofessionals, each of whom seems a one-of-a-kind hero of everyday life. KEN JOHNSON 
 'A MEMBER OF 
 the Wedding'
 Daniel Reich
 537A West 23rd Street, Chelsea
 Through Aug. 29
 Women who exude power and mystery are the focus of this small but potent group show, organized by the Berlin artist Susanne M. Winterling. 
 In two separate photographs, Dag Nordbrenden pays tribute to the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the Eurythmics vocalist Annie Lennox. Endre Aalrust sculptures Martha Stewart's head from brown sugar cubes, chopsticks and costume jewelry. 
 Feminist craft meets Goya-esque imagery in Ruth May's embroidered wall hanging and Nadira Husain's ceramic teacup. Beneath the rim of Ms. Husain's vessel a doll's head is trapped in a set of teeth.
 Action and agitation are implied in the strong diagonals of Lecia Dole-Recio's mixed-media drawing and Adrian Hermanides's neon floor sculpture. These abstractions counterbalance the subculture described in Kaucyila Brooke's ''Boy Mechanic,'' a poster detailing the history of former lesbian bars in various European cities.
 The back room holds two mesmerizing works by Paulette Phillips. One consists of a piece of white chiffon draped over an electronic magnet; it vibrates ever so slightly, suggesting paranormal activity. The other is a short video of a woman in a Victorian nightgown; the wind lifts her hair high overhead, as thunder rumbles in the background. She could be a victim of the storm, or a sorceress stirring it up. KAREN ROSENBERG 
 PHOEBE WASHBURN
 Zach Feuer
 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through Oct. 4
 Over the past few years Phoebe Washburn's installations have evolved from wavelike aggregations of scrap wood to a more sophisticated form of recycling: working ''ecosystems'' of plants, water and sports drinks. Consumerism enters the picture in her latest site-specific project, which demonstrates a hyper-awareness of ''green'' technology and its ubiquity as a marketing strategy.
 In a Rube Goldberg-esque process, a series of pumps and hoses connect the gallery's three rooms. T-shirts are laundered in a washing machine, and the ''gray water'' is then filtered and used to dye sea urchin shells. The candy-colored urchins are offered for sale (as are Gatorade, colored pencils and screen-printed T-shirts) in an elaborately constructed wooden storefront. Eventually, the water is pumped into a kiddie pool-turned-fountain. Some elements of Ms. Washburn's system -- bits of greenery, fish tanks filled with Day-Glo golf balls -- seem more decorative than functional, but it's hard to tell.
 The work's scatological title (which can't be printed here) connects bodily and industrial waste. Ms. Washburn suggests that the byproducts of art making must also be dealt with, and that resourceful artists can find ways to benefit from this new economy.
 KAREN ROSENBERG 
 'COMPETING IDEOLOGIES'
 American Works on Paper From the 1930s-1940s
 D. Wigmore Fine Art
 730 Fifth Avenue
 Through Sept. 12
 It's the populists versus the elitists. ''Competing Ideologies'' takes us back to a time when the choice between representation and abstraction was loaded with moral, spiritual and political import. The selection of almost 60 works on paper by about 30 representationalists and abstractionists is uneven, but the show as a whole is an interesting take on the values driving American art in the 1930s and '40s. 
 The Social Realists and the American Scene painters wanted to speak to a broad audience about issues that ordinary working people could relate to. Ben Shahn's large gouache depicting a welder for a labor union poster and Daniel Ralph Celentano's watercolor paintings of men working on fighter planes in a Long Island aircraft plant raise some of the most urgent issues of the day in a language anyone could understand.
 Works like Dale Nichols's small, precise watercolor paintings of Midwestern farms and Doris Lee's sweet, cartoonish pencil drawing of a man and woman harvesting corn proffer a touching nostalgia for America's agrarian past. And Reginald Marsh's watercolor pictures of the New York City skyline above the Hudson River convey a vivid experience of the empirical present. 
 As for the abstractionists, they wanted art to explore the frontiers of aesthetic and expressive possibility without regard for the understanding of the uninitiated. Rolph Scarlett's futuristic composition of circles and rectangles, ''Nuances in Gray and Beige,'' envisions a metaphysical space of Platonic essences. With its curvy, gestural passages and Cubist structural background, Werner Drewes's brush and ink drawing ''A-295'' asserts a lively interplay of form and feeling. 
 In Charles Green Shaw's collages consisting of newspaper headlines, painted circles and finely inked lines, the popular and the esoteric collide. And in a small painting of ladderlike structures in black, red and blue on a white square, Burgoyne Diller follows in the footsteps of his uncompromising master, Piet Mondrian. KEN JOHNSON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In ''Legend in My Living Room #1'' (2006) Dag Nordbrenden pays tribute to Annie Lennox. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAG NORDBRENDEN AND DANIEL REICH GALLERY)
Dale Nichols's ''Farmhouse, Nebraska,'' from the exhibition ''Competing Ideologies.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOEL ALLUM/D. WIGMORE FINE ART)
 Lisette Model's ''Singer at the Cafe Metropole, New York City.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZABRISKIE GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); MUSIC (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (63%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) GERMANY (74%); UNITED STATES (69%); EUROPE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



532 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Chinese TV Hits Jackpot With Games

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
When the Beijing Olympic Games kicked off two weeks ago with a four-hour spectacular, more than 840 million people in China tuned in, perhaps the largest television audience in history for a single event.
 The broadcast was the first in a series of Olympic bonanzas for China Central Television, or CCTV, one of the chief propaganda arms of the Chinese state and perhaps also a new global media titan.
 Analysts say global corporations seeking a foothold in this potentially huge market have begun to notice CCTV, whose audience is vastly larger than every major television network in the United States and Europe combined.
 So, while NBC is celebrating average prime-time audiences of 29 million viewers in the United States, CCTV is smashing ratings records everywhere. The opening ceremony had an average audience of nearly half a billion people, and 842 million watched at least a minute of it, according to CSM Media Research, based here. 
 More than 80 percent of Chinese households have tuned in to some broadcasts, guaranteeing the $2 billion company a huge pot of advertising gold.
 CCTV paid about $17 million for exclusive broadcast rights in China but could reap $394 million in Olympic advertising revenue, according to Group M, a media company that tracks television advertising revenue here. By comparison, NBC paid $894 million for broadcast rights in the United States and is expected to garner more than $1 billion in ad revenue.
 ''They're a TV powerhouse in China,'' said Richard Ji, an Internet and media analyst at Morgan Stanley, referring to CCTV. And they are likely only to grow more powerful. ''Global brands want to tap into China's consumer market. So they'll be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Olympics,'' Mr. Ji said.
 The company is also a model of how the Communist Party in China manages to keep state-owned companies profitable as it moves the nation toward a market economy with less government influence.
 That the biggest corporations in the world are bankrolling that evolution -- as well as party propaganda -- is one of the ironies of modern China.
 CCTV's 18 channels reach more than a billion viewers. Its advertisers include Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola and Adidas. It has cut television and marketing deals with the National Basketball Association and IMG Worldwide, the global sports and entertainment giant.
 Perhaps the most striking symbol of its ascent is its new corporate headquarters here, a gleaming $700 million architectural landmark designed by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas.
 CCTV is this country's only national television network and is under the direct control of the powerful State Administration for Radio, Film and Television. CCTV journalists travel with the president and politburo leaders; they disseminate government news bulletins and often get approval for ''exclusive'' interviews with important public figures.
 For instance, CCTV was the only media outlet to interview Liu Xiang, the Chinese track star who pulled out of the Games on Monday with a foot injury, guaranteeing he would not face any embarrassing questions.
 Surveys by Nielsen Media Research indicate that up to 96 percent of Chinese households with television sets have tuned into some portion of the Olympics, which can be seen on seven different channels operated by CCTV.
 The viewership numbers are staggering. A women's weightlifting contest on Aug. 9 drew 155 million television viewers and the men's basketball game between the United States and China attracted 170 million. The women's table tennis gold medal match -- won by China -- drew 330 million viewers last Sunday, according to CSM, more viewers than the entire population of the United States.
 CCTV says that in the first 10 days of the Games, more than 100 million people in China watched streaming video on its Web site, CCTV.com.
 ''That was part of the idea of having the Games in China -- opening new markets for the Olympics,'' said Ben Seeley, a spokesman for the International Olympic Committee, which awarded the Games to Beijing in 2001.
 Perhaps that desire helped CCTV get a good deal when negotiating broadcast rights in the 1990s -- or at least an enviable position. The company acquired the rights through the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union, a consortium of dozens of Asian nations (not including Japan or South Korea). But CCTV is also an instrument of the state, a network of television channels whose news and programming is censored and packaged largely to show the country's happy, harmonious moments, to inspire pride in the people and, if necessary, unify them against a common enemy.
 The mission this summer, however, is simpler: cheer on Team China as it racks up a record haul of gold medals at home.
 ''All of our planning has been geared toward the scale of our coverage of the Olympics,'' said Jiang Heping, executive director of CCTV 5, called the Olympics channel.
 For CCTV 5 and its sister channels, that has meant running documentaries about the Olympics, profiles of Chinese and foreign athletes and even primers on sports like fencing and sailing. Advertising rates on CCTV channels have jumped 200 to 400 percent during the Olympics, according to R3, a media research company with offices in Beijing.
 By the time the Olympics end on Sunday, CCTV says it will have broadcast 2,900 hours; the NBC networks are planning to broadcast about 1,400 hours of coverage in the United States.
 ''We've got programs looking at high-tech shoes and swimsuits, telling the stories of Olympians, past and present. And a show called 'Rivals,' which looks at who's the No. 1 American, No. 1 Kenyan. We want to cover the games from an international perspective, not just a Chinese perspective,'' Mr. Jiang said.
 Because of its reach and its monopoly, the network plays a huge role in shaping public opinion. After the huge earthquake in Sichuan Province last spring, CCTV reporters were among the first allowed to report from the scene, beaming images of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao consoling victims and reporting tales of heroic rescue efforts. Images of death and anger over shoddy school construction were censored from news coverage. But government censorship does not seem to hurt the company's bottom line.
 The network's annual auctions of its prime advertising slots are fiercely competitive, with rates rising 20 to 30 percent each year. This year, CCTV revenue is expected to top $2.5 billion, from about $1 billion in 2002 -- a huge sum in a country where the average worker earns less than $200 a month.
 ''Their revenues look rather small for a company that is a fusion of ABC, CBS and NBC,'' Mr. Ji at Morgan Stanley said. ''It can get a lot bigger.''
 That may be one reason Cleveland-based IMG, which owns and manages sports and entertainment events like Wimbledon and represents athletes like Tiger Woods, is teaming with CCTV to tap China's growing love affair with professional sports.
 Robert Lawrence Kuhn, a Citigroup adviser and partner in the IMG deal with CCTV, said IMG could help commercialize and market China's huge sports industry.
 ''Our joint venture would create events and CCTV would broadcast the events,'' he said. ''It is arguably the world's largest broadcaster in terms of eyeballs and potential for growth. And they dominate televised sports in China.''
 Sports are only part of the story. CCTV reaches 30 million Chinese living overseas. It has broadcasts in English, Spanish and French.
 And while American television networks are closing foreign bureaus, CCTV is expanding its global newsgathering presence.
 Today, the network can cash in on foreign brands that want toget into China, because foreign broadcasters are shut out. But one day, it could do a lot more, like bring the world to China and China to the world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Watching the Summer Olympics' opening ceremony on a Beijing street. More than 840 million people watched at least a minute of the opening ceremony on China Central Television, known as CCTV. Below, Cui Yongyuan and Zhang Bin hosted a program on CCTV showing footage from the Beijing Games.(PHOTOGRAPH BY QUINN ROONEY/GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CCTV trained its staff in July in preparation for showing 2,900 hours of Olympic coverage.
A news broadcast rehearsal at CCTV's center in Beijing. Its news and programming is censored.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARO CORTES IV/REUTERS)(pg. C6) CHART: Breaking Audience Records
While NBC is celebrating record audiences of more than 30 million viewers in the United States, China Central Television, or CCTV, has smashed ratings records during this year's Olympic Games.(Sources: CSM Media Research
 Nielsen Media Research) Chart details bar graph for statistics for PROGRAM ON CCTV and VIEWERS IN CHINA.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BASKETBALL (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); APPROVALS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



533 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: I.O.U.S.A.

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
I.O.U.S.A.
 Opens on Friday in New York and selected cities. 
 Directed by Patrick Creadon
 1 hour 30 minutes
 Yet another documentary that everyone should see but most will not, ''I.O.U.S.A.'' tackles the unsexy topic of our soaring national debt and its likely consequences for present and future Americans -- or at least those who survive the tsunamis, water shortages and Beijing-level air quality promised by Al Gore. 
 Brimful of disquieting facts on inflation, trade deficits and Wall Street's influence on national monetary policy, Patrick Creadon's resolutely nonpartisan movie tracks America's ''fiscal cancer'' through centuries of budgetary highs and lows. Packaging his inconvenient truths with as much humor as he can muster under the circumstances, Mr. Creadon balances his talking heads and pie charts with the folksy progress of the Fiscal Wake-Up Tour, a grass-roots effort spearheaded by David M. Walker, the former comptroller general of the United States, and Robert L. Bixby of the Concord Coalition. 
 Equal parts enlightening and alarming, ''I.O.U.S.A.'' highlights our unwise preference for short-term reward over long-term planning, a weakness not shared by the film's exemplary Chinese household, which saves more than half of its $10-a-day income. The movie's wrist-slapping tone, however, is softened by Mr. Walker's eloquence and Mr. Bixby's rueful, self-deprecating charm as they trudge tirelessly from one town hall to another, urging Americans to save rather than spend. Good luck, boys: Suze Orman has been working on that for years. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 ''I.O.U.S.A.'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). Mild language and severe warnings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (56%); MONETARY POLICY (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



534 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sees Much to Fear in a Hostile Russia

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
The president of Syria spent two days this week in Russia with a shopping list of sophisticated weapons he wanted to buy. The visit may prove a worrisome preview of things to come. 
 If Russia's invasion of Georgia ushers in a sustained period of renewed animosity with the West, Washington fears that a newly emboldened but estranged Moscow could use its influence, money, energy resources, United Nations Security Council veto and, yes, its arms industry to undermine American interests around the world. 
 Although Russia has long supplied arms to Syria, it has held back until now on providing the next generation of surface-to-surface missiles. But the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, made clear that he was hoping to capitalize on rising tensions between Moscow and the West when he rushed to the resort city of Sochi to meet with his Russian counterpart, Dmitri A. Medvedev. 
 The list of ways a more hostile Russia could cause problems for the United States extends far beyond Syria and the mountains of Georgia. In addition to escalated arms sales to other anti-American states like Iran and Venezuela, policy makers and specialists in Washington envision a freeze on counterterrorism and nuclear nonproliferation cooperation, manipulation of oil and natural gas supplies, pressure against United States military bases in Central Asia and the collapse of efforts to extend cold war-era arms control treaties. 
 ''It's Iran, it's the U.N., it's all the counterterrorism and counternarcotics programs, Syria, Venezuela, Hamas -- there are any number of issues over which they can be less cooperative than they've been,'' said Angela E. Stent, who served as the top Russia officer at the United States government's National Intelligence Council until 2006 and now directs Russian studies at Georgetown University. ''And of course, energy.''
 Michael McFaul, a Stanford University professor and the chief Russia adviser for Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said Russia appeared intent on trying to ''disrupt the international order'' and had the capacity to succeed. ''The potential is big because at the end of the day, they are the hegemon in that region and we are not and that's a fact,'' Professor McFaul said.
 Russia may yet hold back from some of the more disruptive options depending on how both sides play these next few weeks and months. Many in Washington hope Russia will restrain itself out of its own self-interest; Moscow, for instance, does not want Iran to have nuclear weapons, nor does it want the Taliban to regain power in Afghanistan. Dmitri Rogozin, a hard-liner who serves as Russia's ambassador to NATO, told the newspaper Izvestia this week that Moscow still wanted to support the alliance in Afghanistan. ''NATO's defeat in Afghanistan would not be good for us,'' he said.
 Moscow may also be checked by the desire of its economic elite to remain on the path to integration with the rest of the world. The main Russian stock index fell sharply in recent days, costing investors $10 billion -- many with close ties to the circle of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin.
 Still, although the confrontation over Georgia had been building for years, the outbreak of violence demonstrated just how abruptly the international scene can change. Now Russia is the top focus in Washington and some veteran diplomats fret about the situation spiraling out of control. 
 ''Outrage is not a policy,'' said Strobe Talbott, who was deputy secretary of state under President Clinton and is now the president of the Brookings Institution. ''Worry is not a policy. Indignation is not a policy. Even though outrage, worry and indignation are all appropriate in this situation, they shouldn't be mistaken for policy and they shouldn't be mistaken for strategy.''
 For Washington, there are limited options for applying pressure. Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, wants to throw Russia out of the Group of 8 major powers. Such a move would effectively admit the failure of 17 years of bipartisan policy aimed at incorporating Russia into the international order.
 Yet Washington's menu of options pales by comparison to Moscow's. Masha Lipman, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center, said ''there's a lot more'' that the United States needed from Russia than the other way around, citing efforts to secure old Soviet nuclear arms, support the war effort in Afghanistan and force Iran and North Korea to give up nuclear programs. ''Hence Russia has all the leverage,'' she said.
 In forecasting Russia's potential for causing headaches, most specialists look first to Ukraine, which wants to join NATO. The nightmare scenario circulating in recent days is an attempt by Moscow to claim the strategic Crimean peninsula to secure access to the Black Sea. Ukrainian lawmakers are investigating reports that Russia has been granting passports en masse to ethnic Russians living in Crimea, a tactic Moscow used in the Georgian breakaway republics of South Ossetia and Abkhazia to justify intervention to protect its citizens.
 Arms sales, as Mr. Assad's visit underscored, represent another way Russia could create problems. Israeli and Western governments have already been alarmed about reports that the first elements of the Russian-built S-300 antiaircraft missile system are now being delivered to Iran, which could use them to shoot down any American or Israeli planes that seek to bomb nuclear facilities should that ever be attempted.
 While Mr. Rogozin expressed support for assisting NATO in the war in Afghanistan, other officials have warned darkly about cutting off ties with NATO. The two sides have already effectively suspended any military cooperation programs. But Russia could also revoke its decision in April to allow NATO to send nonlethal supplies overland through its territory en route to Afghanistan. 
 Russia could also turn up pressure on Kyrgyzstan to evict American forces that support operations in Afghanistan and could block any large-scale return to Uzbekistan, which expelled the Americans in 2005. ''The argument would be, 'Why help NATO?' '' said Celeste A. Wallander, a Russia scholar at Georgetown's School of Foreign Service. 
 Even beyond the dispute over Iran, Russia could obstruct the United States at the United Nations Security Council on a variety of other issues. Just last month, Russia vetoed sanctions against Zimbabwe's government, a move seen as a slap at Washington. 
 ''If Russia's feeling churlish, they can pretty much bring to a grinding halt any kind of coercive actions, like economic sanctions or anything else,'' said Peter D. Feaver, a former strategic adviser at the National Security Council.
 Russia could also accelerate its withdrawal from arms control structures. It already has suspended the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty to protest American missile defense plans and threatened to pull out of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces treaty. Renewed tension could fray a recently signed civilian nuclear cooperation agreement and doom negotiations to extend soon-to-expire strategic arms control verification programs.
 ''Ironically, since the collapse of the Soviet Union, there's always been the concern about Russia becoming a spoiler,'' said Ms. Stent, of Georgetown, ''and now we could see the realization of that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russian soldiers in Igoeti, Georgia, on Thursday. Analysts fear that Russia could use arms sales to undercut the West.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO LONGARI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); TALIBAN (71%); TERRORISM (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



535 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2482 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 KAIJU BIG BATTEL
 Get ready: On Saturday, in the mud and murk of the banks of the Gowanus Canal, in a ring crowded with images of the Manhattan skyline, Hell Monkey will take on Neo Teppen in an all-out, environment-decimating cage match. 
 Created by a Boston arts group about a decade ago, Kaiju Big Battel has gone from an underground phenomenon to a touring event that sells out clubs nationwide. As its excitable M.C., who gave his name only as Louden Noxious (''it's Greek''), explained, ''Kaiju Big Battels are sanctioned events where these giant city-crushing monsters are able to settle their differences.''
 With characters like the Steam Powered Tentacle Boulder, Uchu Chu the Space Bug and Call-Me-Kevin (above) and story lines that hybridize Japanese monster movies and the W.W.E., Kaiju is equal parts competitive spectacle, performance art and manga-style cartoonish whimsy. 
 Saturday's battle, at the Yard, a patch of grass that's been reborn as one of the summer's best concert spaces, will be the first time the group has performed outside in New York. ''Outdoor events can get trickier,'' Louden Noxious said, ''because should the monsters go on some sort of crazy rampage, it'll be more difficult to stop them from crushing western Brooklyn.'' Aha.
 Spectators can expect a fierce rivalry between the heroic monsters, like Powa Ranjuru (''she has wings and a tutu, and she sprinkles magical pixie dust on her opponents''), and the less so, like her opponent Pedro Plantain (a six-foot-tall green plantain who took a turn for the evil after his brother, Pablo, was killed). 
 ''We have a referee to make sure there are no dirty tricks, but unfortunately there are times when the referee is distracted, and mayhem ensues,'' Louden Noxious said. (Still, he noted, hosting is a dream job: ''I've always wanted to do something like this, and when I say something like this, I mean save humanity.'') 
 The bouts can go on for seconds or minutes or more. Bands will also play, but Kaiju's fans might be distraction enough. Vocal and rowdy, they arrive bearing signs like ''Kung-Fu Chicken Noodle is Mmm Mmm Bad'' and, after a particularly decisive maneuver, have been known to chant, ''This is awesome!'' And it is.
 (Saturday from 4 to 9 p.m., the Yard, 388-400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Gowanus, Brooklyn, kaiju.com or theyard.ws; $15 in advance; $20 at the door.)
 MELENA RYZIK 
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Every Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 8:30 p.m., ''SonicVision,'' an animated alternative-music show, is presented in the Rose Center; tickets, $15; $12 for members. Through Jan. 4, ''The Horse'' examines the ways in which humans and horses are linked. Through Jan. 5, ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive,'' a display of more than 60 live creatures from five continents. In the Imax theater through Sept. 1, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure,'' about reptiles found beneath the water 80 million years ago, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur remains. Timed tickets to ''The Horse'' and ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive!,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $22; $16.50 for students and 60+; $13 for 12 and younger. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center for Earth and Space admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $30; $23 for students and 60+; $19 for 12 and younger. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. The Rose Center is open until 8:45 p.m. for ''Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere,'' with jazz, a cash bar and tapas on the first Friday of every month; (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200; amnh.org.
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Hours through Aug. 31: Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Tours on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and on weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. (718) 351-1611. $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Nov. 4, ''Campaigning for President: New York and the American Election,'' an exhibition of campaign memorabilia, including buttons, banners, posters and clothing; the display is from the collection of Jordan M. Wright, who died on May 11 and was its guest curator. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society.
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Nov. 2, ''Plague in Gotham!: Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York,'' an exhibition examining the epidemic in New York beginning in 1832, featuring illustrated maps, portraits and displays of remedies. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York.
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Through Oct. 31, ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game: 100 Years of Music, Musicians and the National Pastime,'' an exhibition of slides, photographs, sheet music and recordings that focus on the game's influence on composers like Irving Berlin, Charles Ives, William Schuman and George M. Cohan. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 870-1630, nypl.org. Free. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Dec. 7, ''Tools of the Trade,'' an exhibition of 50 items that have been used to build and maintain the city's transportation system since the 1880s; included are an anemometer (wind gauge), a pneumatic drill and signal locks. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. (718) 694-1600. $5; $3 for ages 3 to 17 and 62+; free for members and children under 3 every day, and for 62+ on Wednesdays. At the Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, next to the stationmaster's office, on view through Nov. 2, ''What's New?,'' a display of items recently added to the museum's collection that includes a World War II air-raid siren from an elevated subway station. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free.
 THE PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Through Sept. 7, a display of artwork inspired by the television series ''Family Guy,'' with simultaneous screenings of episodes from the show. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). (212) 621-6600; paleycenter.org. $10; $8 for students and 62+; $5 for children under 14. 
 Events
 BATTERY PARK CITY PARKS CONSERVANCY, Lower Manhattan. Friday at 6:30 p.m. in Robert F. Wagner Jr. Park, Sunset Jam on the Hudson, with the drummer Mary Knysh. (212) 267-9700; bpcparks.org. Free. 
 AFRICAN DAY PARADE AND FESTIVAL, Sunday from noon to 7 p.m. on Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, from 116th to 127th Streets, Harlem. 
 AFRICAN DIASPORA SUMMER FILM SERIES, Riverside Theater, Riverside Drive at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights. Screenings Friday at 8:30 p.m.; Saturday at 6:30 and 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 1:30 and 4 p.m. Also next Friday to Aug. 31. (212) 870-6784; theriversidetheatre.org. Tickets, Friday, $15, $8 for children and 65+; otherwise, $10 and $8. 
 BLEECKER STREET FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., from Avenue of the Americas to Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village. 
 BLUES BBQ FESTIVAL, Sunday, 2 to 9 p.m., on Pier 54, West 14th Street and West Street, West Village. With music and food. Sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust. hudsonriverpark.org. 
 CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD STREET FAIR, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Third Avenue, from 23rd to 34th Streets, Manhattan. 
 DAYTOP VILLAGE STREET FAIR, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., Madison Avenue, from 42nd to 57th Streets. 
 FOURTH ANNUAL SOLAR-POWERED FILM SERIES, Thursday through Saturday at 8 p.m., eco-friendly-theme movies and shorts. Stuyvesant Cove Park, along the East River, south of 23rd Street, Manhattan; solar1.org. Free. 
 GRAMERCY PARK STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Third Avenue, from 14th to 23rd Streets. 
 MOVIES WITH A VIEW, Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, reachable from Main and Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. A free film screening series concludes on Thursday with ''The Shining'' (1980), with Jack Nicholson. brooklynbridgepark.org. 
 NEW YORKERS FOR NEW YORK CITY, a benefit sightseeing cruise on the Circle Line, Wednesday. at 6:15 p.m. at Pier 83, 42nd Street and the West Side Highway; the boat sails at 6:45 p.m. $27; includes music, a beverage and a $5 donation to the Food Bank for New York City. (212) 563-3200; circleline42.com.
 NEW YORK TURKISH FESTIVAL, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 9 pm., Fifth Avenue and 97th Street. 
 PAKISTAN DAY FESTIVAL, Sunday, 1 to 6 p.m., on Madison Avenue, from 23rd to 26th Streets. 
 PASSPORT FRIDAYS 2008, Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. A free outdoor series of international music, dance and film concludes this Friday from 6:30 to 10:30 p.m. with Laura Peterson Choreography and the dancer Anthony Whitehurst; music by Mariachi Oro de Mexico and a screening of the 2007 film ''Under the Same Moon,'' by Patricia Riggen. Rain location, inside the museum. The museum galleries and cafe will also be open until 8 p.m. www.queensmuseum.org; (718) 592-9700. 
 SIXTH CENTRAL PARK FILM FESTIVAL, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street. Friday, ''Moonstruck'' (1987), with Cher and Nicolas Cage; John Patrick Shanley, the film's writer, will introduce the screening. Saturday, ''August Rush'' (2007), with a performance by a music group featured in the film. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 SUMMER STREETS, Saturday, from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., a car-free route for bicycling, playing or just walking is planned in Manhattan, starting at its southern tip, running north along Lafayette Street to Fourth Avenue, to Park Avenue, to 72nd Street and west to Central Park. With entertainment, fitness classes and other activities along the route. Bicycle rides to the area, escorted by Transportation Alternatives, will be available from neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. nyc.gov/summerstreets.
 ROCKEFELLER CENTER FARMERS' MARKET, 50th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Wednesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., through Aug. 29. (212) 332-6868.
 THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY STREET THEATER presents ''It's the Economy, Stupid! or the Turning Point'' on Saturday at the Concert Grove in Prospect Park in Brooklyn, reachable from the entrances at Parkside Avenue-Ocean Avenue and Lincoln Road-Ocean Avenue; on Sunday at Travers Park in Queens, 34th Avenue, between 77th and 78th Street, Jackson Heights. Both are at 2 p.m. (212) 254-1109. Free.
 2008 SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Mulberry and Hester Streets. Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., a Family Festival Weekend, with face painters, a balloon artist, magicians and puppeteers. littleitalynyconline.org; (212) 302-0551. Free. 
 Walking Tours
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS, Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Immigrant New York,'' meeting at the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street. Saturday at 5 p.m., ''Greenwich Village at Twilight,'' meeting at the northeast corner of Seventh Avenue and Christopher Street. (212) 439-1090. $15; $12 for 63+, students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 AUDUBON PARK AND TERRACE MUSEUM TOUR, Sunday at noon, meeting at 157th Street and Broadway. $15, $10 for 63+ and students.
 ELLIS ISLAND TOUR, meeting Wednesdays and Saturdays at 1 p.m., outside the Ellis Island Museum. Led by Tom Bernadin of Ellis Island Tours. Reservations required: (212) 209-3370; ellisislandtours.com. $15. Ferry information, (877) 523-9849; statuecruises.com. Ferry fare, $12, $10 for 62+, $5 for children 4 to 12.
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS, Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence: The Millionaires' Mile,'' meeting at the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. (732) 270-5559. $15. 
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS, Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Down With King George!,'' a look at revolution in the colonial capital, meeting at the steps of the National Museum of the American Indian, United States Customs House, 1 Bowling Green, foot of Broadway, Lower Manhattan. (917) 607-9019. $20.
 LOWER EAST SIDE TOURS, Lower Manhattan walks. Saturday and Tuesday at 11 a.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street, East Village. (917) 215-2575, lowereastsidetours.org. Donations accepted.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY, Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Radical Greenwich Village,'' meeting at the Washington Square Arch on Fifth Avenue. (212) 439-1049, mas.org. $15; $12 for members.
 PHOTO WALKABOUTS, tours of several Manhattan locations with instruction in photography. Friday at 2 p.m., Central Park, meeting near the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Saturday at 10 a.m., Greenwich Village, meeting at Father Demo Square, Avenue of the Americas at Bleecker Street; Saturdays at 2 p.m., the Financial District, meeting at Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 557-3693; photowalkabouts.com. Each, $20 (cash only). 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y., Saturday at 2 p.m., ''From Pages to Pavement,'' a tour exploring scenes from novels set in the gaslight era. Saturday at 6 p.m., ''Elegance and Ale,'' a pub tour. Both meeting at the Washington Square Arch on Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village. $10; drinks not included on pub tour. (212) 969-8262. $10. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT, Saturday at 1 p.m., a walking tour of Dumbo. Meeting at Jay and York Streets in front of the York Street subway station of the F train. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. 
 Recreation
 HARLEM HEALTH WALK-A-THON,Saturday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in Morningside Park. Presented by the New York Road Runners and sponsored by city organizations and businesses. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. Advance registration fee, $20; $25 on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (76%); HORROR FILMS (69%); HISTORY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



536 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Fears Over Commercial Property Loans

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
As the value of home mortgages crumbles by the day, Wall Street has hoped that commercial real estate loans would stay clear of the storm. 
 But bankers believe the headwinds may be shifting after a large apartment complex in Harlem warned last week that it might not be able to make good on a $225 million mortgage payment by September. 
 A default by the complex, the rent-regulated Riverton Apartments, a 12-building residential development constructed after World War II, would be New York's largest in the current housing crisis. For Wall Street banks, which hold about $100 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities, the prospect has fanned new worries that a deterioration of the overall commercial property market could prompt more write-downs in the coming quarter, on top of losses already expected from their distressed mortgage securities holdings. 
 ''The fear is the next shoe to drop may be commercial real estate,'' said Jeffrey Harte, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neil. ''When consumer credit goes south, commercial will follow.''
 At the end of the second quarter, Deutsche Bank held $25.1 billion worth of commercial loans. Morgan Stanley held $22.1 billion and Citigroup had $19.1 billion. 
 Lehman Brothers, which has the largest exposure to this type of security, is shopping about $40 billion worth of commercial real estate assets, as well as its entire commercial real estate business. A large part of its portfolio is a high-risk loan known as bridge equity made with Archstone, a metropolitan apartment developer, and most of the rest are floating-rate loans, which are riskier, according to a person who reviewed the offering.
 Banks are scrambling to dispose of these loans, typically made to hotels, office developers and retail strips, before problems arrive.
 Broader real estate indexes are already showing signs of trouble. Moody's/REAL Commercial Property Price Index has dropped nearly 12 percent since its peak last October. A more conservative index by the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries shows growth slowing to one-half of a percent in the second quarter, from upward of 4 percent a quarter. 
 Loans made for commercial real estate are typically among the safest, because a building can be used as collateral and big property developers generate income from the investment, raising the likelihood they will repay their loans. 
 But cracks began to emerge late last year, when Morgan Stanley reported write-downs of $400 million in commercial mortgage losses. In the first quarter, Wachovia, which had transformed itself into a leading lender in the nation's commercial real estate market, said it would take write-downs of more than $1 billion for commercial loans for the second half of 2007. Investors had already begun balking at buying securities backed by these bonds, so banks like Wachovia were stuck with loans of diminished value. 
 Around the same time, the New York developer Harry Macklowe was forced to sell seven office buildings he had bought in Midtown Manhattan, as well as the General Motors Building, after he was unable to refinance the loan with his lender, Deutsche Bank. 
 Now, the prospect of an immense default on a commercial residential property in New York -- which has not suffered as much as troubled markets like Florida -- has lent new momentum to concerns over the stability of commercial real estate loans. 
 As Harlem grew into an increasingly attractive neighborhood at the height of the housing market, bankers assumed that Riverton's owners could quickly convert many of its roughly 1,230 units from lower-priced rentals to apartments priced closer to the higher market average. That would generate a richer income stream, allowing the companies to pay off high mortgage bills. 
 It was the kind of optimistic assumption that ran rampant in the residential housing market, but one that remained less common for commercial real estate loans. 
 On Monday, Fitch Ratings issued a negative watch on part of the Riverton Apartments trust, saying developers had made only scant progress toward their goal. Rockpoint Group and Stellar Management -- the developers that own Riverton -- did not comment.
 Before the credit squeeze, financial companies bundled commercial mortgages into securities in much the same way they packaged home loans and private equity debt. Riverton's mortgage was one of the last ones to be wrapped into a commercial mortgage-backed security in the spring of 2007; it was then cut up and sold as bonds.
 A recent report by Lehman Brothers showed that aggressive underwriting is what probably has brought Riverton to the brink of default, not a fundamental deterioration in the overall market. But that report noted that there are other commercial properties that received similar optimistic underwriting, known as a pro forma loan. 
 Ratings agencies have only downgraded a few commercial real estate securities. At Moody's, the list includes loans given to the Ritz-Carlton in New Orleans, a casino in Atlantic City and a land development deal in Miami.
 Still, many analysts say a lengthy downturn in the economy would probably lead many commercial property owners to struggle with their mortgage bills. And pricing in commercial real estate is starting to reflect a tightening in commercial lending, they said. 
 ''The risk here in commercial real estate is, What happens when those loans mature in two, three, four, five years?'' said Nick Levidy, a managing director at Moody's Investors Service. ''When these loans come up for refinancing, unless the credit markets improve significantly, the terms will be quite different.''
 Citigroup and Deutsche Bank created the commercial mortgage trust that included Riverton's mortgage in March 2007. Riverton's loan is the seventh-largest in the $6.6 billion trust, according to Fitch Ratings. After the deal closed, only three other commercial mortgage trusts of comparable size were created before the market collapsed, according to Dealogic, a financial information service.
 Losses are rising in this sort of trust. Fitch reported last week that delinquencies rose at the end of July to 0.43 percent, from 0.41 percent at the start of the month, a pace of deterioration that has been steady since the winter. Since February, delinquencies on commercial mortgage-backed securities have increased 43 percent. 
 At the same time, investors are also expecting further trouble in commercial real estate bonds. The top-rated part of the index that includes the Riverton Apartments, for instance, indicates that the risk of those securities has increased by 44 percent in the past month, according to Markit, a financial services company. 
 ''The housing market's weak, so market perception is that commercial real estate fundamentals will follow,'' said Steve Gordon, managing director of MKP Capital Management, a hedge fund that manages $4 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the declining value of commercial real estate and its effect on lenders misstated the amount of commercial loans held by Deutsche Bank. It holds $23 billion in such loans, not $25.1 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Riverton Apartments, a 12-building complex in Harlem, said that it might default on a $225 million mortgage payment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) CHART: An index that tracks the change in sales prices of commercial properties fell in June for the fourth consecutive month. Chart details line graph for MOODY'S/REAL COMMERCIAL PROPERTY PRICE INDEX.(Source: Moody's)
 Still Exposed: Wall Street firms still have considerable exposure to commercial mortgage-backed securities, although they may have sold some since the end of their second quarters, when they reported these numbers. Chart details bar graph for Exposure to commercial mortgage-backed securities.(Source: Company filings)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (94%); REAL ESTATE (94%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); RENT CONTROL (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



537 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2328 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: AUGUST 22, 2008

 BODY:
International
 WHILE DOMINATING THE CONFLICT,
 Russia Lost in Media Coverage
 Russia and Georgia have both sought to convince the world that the other side was responsible for starting the recent conflict. The Kremlin's reluctance to try to muster support for its position with the same intensity that it sent tanks into Georgia offers an insight into its ambivalence toward the West that is reflected in its discomfort in having to justify its actions. PAGE A9 
 DOUBTS OVER A RUSSIAN WITHDRAWAL
 With reports of Russian forces establishing checkpoints on strategic roads, Russia gave conflicting signals about whether it would withdraw its troops from Georgia by its self-imposed deadline, which is Friday. President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia also questioned whether Moscow was serious about meeting the deadline. PAGE A8 
 BRITISH LEADER PLEDGES MORE AID
 The British prime minister, Gordon Brown, visited Afghanistan to reaffirm his country's commitment to security and development there, pledging $120 million in additional assistance for Afghanistan's development, along with extra support for training and building the Afghan Army and police forces. His visit took place amid increasing insurgent attacks and casualties among foreign forces and after intense fighting on Monday that killed 10 French soldiers. PAGE A6 
 TORTURE CLAIM CREDIBLE, COURT SAYS
 A British court said that Binyam Mohamed, a 30-year-old Ethiopian terrorism suspect being held at Guantanamo Bay, had credible arguments that the United States had illegally spirited him away to Morocco and that he was tortured there. PAGE A6 
 PAROLE GRANTED IN 'LION'S DEN CASE'
 Mark Scott-Crossley, the white owner of a construction company who was initially sentenced to life in prison in 2005 for ordering that a black man be beaten and then thrown to a pack of lions, was released on parole. Even in a nation that experiences many brutal crimes, the notorious ''lion's den case'' enraged many South Africans who saw it as a throwback to apartheid and as grisly evidence of enduring racism in the country. PAGE A5 
 FIRE IMPEDED PLANE RESCUE
 A raging brush fire ignited by jet fuel prevented hundreds of rescue workers from reaching more than 150 passengers on the plane that veered off the runway in Madrid on Wednesday. Of the 172 passengers and crew members, only 19 survived the crash and flames, with one of the injured dying overnight. Flags were flown at half-staff and the king and queen joined mourning relatives at a makeshift morgue for the 153 dead. PAGE A9 
 NATIONAL
 CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATES FIND
 Energy a Slippery Issue
 The consensus seems to be that, yes, energy is an important issue for Congressional candidates to address this campaign season. But how to address it is another matter, as Republicans and Democrats alike ponder approaches to a topic that raises hackles but offers little agreement on the best solutions. PAGE A12
 VACCINE OPPONENTS ARE FAULTED
 More people suffered measles infections in the first seven months of this year than during any comparable period since 1996, and public health officials blamed growing numbers of parents who refuse to vaccinate their children. Of the 131 measles cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 63 victims were unvaccinated because of their or their parents' philosophical or religious beliefs. PAGE A13
 EXECUTION IN TEXAS DELAYED
 The execution of a man on his way to the death chamber in Huntsville, Tex., was delayed when a federal judge ordered a stay to determine if the condemned man is mentally competent. The defendant, Jeffery Lee Wood, 35, was sentenced to death for a murder that his partner committed during a robbery. His lawyers argue that he is too delusional to understand his predicament. PAGE A12
 LEAVING THEM WANTING
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton held her first rally in Florida on Senator Barack Obama's behalf and offered an unequivocal endorsement, repeatedly trying to tie her signature issues to Mr. Obama. But some in the crowd wished she had been more forceful and convincing. PAGE A16 
 CALL FOR REVIEW OF DRINKING AGE
 Despite criticism from Mothers Against Drunk Driving and others, more than 120 college and university presidents have endorsed a petition to reconsider the legal drinking age. The statement says that raising the drinking age to 21 has fostered binge drinking and fake IDs, but critics say the presidents are misleading the public and shirking their responsibility. PAGE A13 
 OBITUARIES
 GEORGE DEEM, 75
 He was a painter who admired master painters so much that he spent his own career repainting their works, albeit with clever alterations. PAGE A17
 RONNIE DREW, 73
 A gravelly voiced folk singer and guitarist known for his distinctive long white beard, he founded the Irish group the Dubliners and also sang with the Pogues and other rock bands. PAGE A17
 NEW YORK REGION 
 POLICE AND CITY AGREE ON PACT
 With 4 Percent Annual Raises
 The primary police officers' union reached a tentative four-year contract with New York City that gives raises of 4 percent a year and increases starting salaries to nearly $42,000. The agreement means the police will avoid arbitration for the first time since 1994. PAGE A19 
 THE FICKLE NUMBERS
 If persistence and dedication counted with the lottery gods, then Ray Otero would be a winner, and not Richie Randazzo across the street. Last year alone, Mr. Otero, the doorman spent $30,000 on tickets. He plays the game in shifts: one bet in the morning at 11 o'clock, another in the middle afternoon, sandwiched around his job as an apartment building superintendent. ''If all you're doing is working, you're never going to win,'' he says. PAGE A18 
 BEIJING '08
 OPENING THE FIELD 
 For Softball's New No. 1
 The theory has long been that softball, which has been dropped from the Olympics after this year's Games, would benefit if some team other than the United States won the gold medal. This is the year the theory gets tested: Japan pulled off a 3-1 upset, ending the American run of three golds and showing that softball is not a one-nation sport. PAGE C10 
 U.S. TRACK REDEMPTION
 It appeared that the United States track and field team had hit rock bottom at these Olympics, around the time the men's -- and the women's -- 4x100-meter relay teams dropped the baton. But that was before LaShawn Merritt strolled into the Olympic stadium for what he believed was his moment in the 400 meters. PAGE C12
 THE MEN'S ADVANTAGE
 The notion that women would someday close the gender gap in elite sports performances is now largely discredited, at least for Olympic events. Researchers say there is no one physiological reason for the gap, although there is a common biological thread: testosterone, which affects all manner of things, and every one of its effects gives men a performance advantage. PAGE C10 
 HORSES AND RIDERS SUSPENDED
 Four horses and their riders were suspended from Olympic show jumping after preliminary tests suggested that the skin of the horses might have been treated with capsaicin, which is widely used in topical ointments for the treatment of minor horse injuries. The substance is banned at the Olympics because it can also serve as a mild stimulant. PAGE C17 
 BUSINESS
 OIL JUMPS AND DOLLAR FALLS,
 Reversing Recent Trends
 Oil jumped up by more than $5 a barrel and the dollar fell against the euro and the yen, as prices for raw materials enjoyed one of their biggest rebounds in weeks and financial stocks lingered in the red. The moves were a sharp reversal of recent trends, but analysts cautioned against reading too much into a single day's session. PAGE C9
 HARD HITS FOR LEHMAN
 Real estate woes have been widespread among Wall Street banks. But few have suffered as much as Lehman Brothers, which has remained in the center of the storm because of its smaller size, its significant mortgage exposure and its seeming reluctance to take drastic steps. PAGE C1
 BANK BOUGHT AT GARAGE SALE PRICE
 The private equity firm Lone Star acquired IKB Deutsche Industriebank, the German bank that unleashed the subprime mortgage crisis in Europe. A once-conservative corporate lender that lost billions by speculating in mortgage-backed securities, it will be sold for a price in the ''low single-digit millions'' of euros, its majority owner, the German state bank KfW said, far from the 800 million euros ($1.17 billion) that had been hoped for. PAGE C2
 BETTING ON IPHONE HUNGER
 Owners of the Apple iPhone have downloaded 60 million applications from the Apple App Store. Matt Murphy is counting on the appetite growing. He oversees the iFund, a $100 million fund created to invest in start-ups specializing in iPhone applications. Opportunity abounds; Mr. Murphy and his partners have received 2,500 business plans. ''Until the iPhone came out and you got to use one, it was hard to imagine how impactful it could be,'' he said. PAGE C1
 SLUMP COULD MIRROR 1990S
 Britain's banks should be prepared to cope with an economic downturn and a housing market slump that could mirror the recession in the early 1990s, Hector Sants, the chief executive of the Financial Services Authority, said. Mr. Sants said British banks needed to make sure their business models could survive a deteriorating market, which may include a decline of up to 25 percent in housing prices. PAGE C7
 S.B.A. LEADER BYPASSES SENATE
 Santanu K. Baruah, a former Commerce Department official, has been named acting administrator of the Small Business Administration under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, which allows him to remain in the post through the end of the current administration. He was nominated for the post on June 26, but his confirmation ran into bipartisan concerns over several issues. PAGE C3
 Profit Without Risk? C1
 Auto Parts Maker Acquires Rival C6
 Weekend
 A CABINET OF WONDERS
 At the Museum of Modern Art
 A dusty cabinet of forgotten strangeness, it conjures up images of mad scientists' workshops and Lovecraftian nooks and crannies. But ''Wunderkammer: A Century of Curiosities,'' in the museum's department of prints and illustrated books, is a collection of things rare and marvelous: scientific instruments, rock specimens and small works of art are among the things that make an appearance. Page B23 
 CINeMA VeRITe IN KATRINA'S MIDST
 When Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, some hid, some ran, some took up arms. But Kim and Scott Roberts picked up a video camera and chased the storm. After they linked up with two filmmakers, who were after a story of their own, what resulted is an urgent, unadorned film that rises above a personal portrait, even with a strong personality in front of and behind the camera in Ms. Roberts, Manohla Dargis writes. Page B8 
 OF PUNK ROCK AND ROMANCE
 The art-punk trio Vivian Girls delivered their set at Death by Audio in Brooklyn like a hot, sticky blast of wind, in almost the same amount of time it took for them to set up. Punk rockers certainly, they seem to be romantics as well; concealed are glorious harmonies and haunting melodies inside the distortion of their dense, short songs, Jon Caramanica writes. Page B3 
 IT'S ALL FAKE, EXCEPT WHEN IT'S NOT
 ''The Cinema Effect: Illusion, Reality and the Moving Image'' at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington is an exhaustive showcase of films that show the tricks of film and the wool that is pulled over your eyes to conceal them, Karen Rosenberg writes. Page B28 
 ESCAPES
 LIVING A SLOWER VERSION
 Of Life in the Fast Lane
 Stock-car racing calls to mind big tracks and big races with big names competing for big prizes on the Nascar circuit. And for many people, it conjures Southern images. But on summer weekends in New England state roads are flecked with race haulers en route to regional short tracks, where drivers competing for small-time prizes and kicks are met by fans who have spent a lifetime of Saturday nights in the grandstands. PAGE D1 
 FOLLOWING THE KIDS
 Real estate professionals first saw it as a way for parents to make an investment while avoiding paying dormitory costs for their college-age children: buy a ''kiddie condo.'' But now some parents are buying second homes for themselves near campuses where their children are enrolled, finding they like the vibe of a college town, and staying. college. PAGE D1 
 Havens: Pinehurst, N.C. D3 
 Journeys: Annapolis, Md. D4 
 Editorial
 MEDICARE'S CLAIMS
 An inspector general's report has pegged Medicare's rate of improper payments for medical equipment at 31.5 percent, which implies improper spending of some $2.8 billion. With the program's expenditures soaring, there is no room for any more waste, fraud or complacency. PAGE A20 
 A NEW RUSH TO SPY
 Attorney General Michael Mukasey may be preparing to give the F.B.I. broad new authority to investigate Americans -- without any clear basis for suspicion that they are committing a crime. PAGE A20 
 MR. URIBE'S CHOICE
 Last week, supporters of Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, delivered to election authorities five million signatures on a petition that calls for a referendum to modify the constitution so Mr. Uribe can run for a third term. He should tell his friends that he is not interested. PAGE A20 
 Op-Ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Last weekend, Pastor Rick Warren asked both presidential candidates to define the income at which ''you move from middle class to rich.'' But that's a bad question. PAGE A21 
 DAVID BROOKS
 Barack Obama says he has decided on a vice-presidential running mate. For the good of the country, I hope he picked Joe Biden, who has what he needs: working-class roots, honesty, loyalty and experience. PAGE A21 
 GIANT PROBLEMS
 Sandy Allen, the world's tallest woman, died last week at the age of 53. In an Op-Ed article, Arianne Cohen, who is 6 feet 3 inches tall herself, writes that most giants face lives of loneliness and poverty. PAGE A21 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAROLE (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (88%); WILD CATS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRISONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); SENTENCING (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); POLICE FORCES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); FIRES (66%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); JET FUEL (50%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); GORDON BROWN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GEORGIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SPAIN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); CUBA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



538 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tops Cuba to Reach Women's Volleyball Final

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Seconds after Kim Willoughby hit a winner into Cuba's side of the court to send the United States women's volleyball team into the Olympic final, her mouth fell open.
 She could not believe that her shot -- and the victory -- on Thursday morning here was real, and that the Americans were headed to the gold-medal round for the first time in 24 years. 
 ''I felt like it was an out-of-body experience,'' said Willoughby, an outside hitter who was just 4 in 1984, the last time the United States women played for an Olympic gold medal. ''Is this really happening to me right now? Am I really doing this? We just made the United States very proud.'' 
 After losing to the Cubans in three sets in pool play last week, the Americans came back to win their second and more important matchup against them at these Games. 
 After that loss to Cuba, the American team promised itself that it would play more aggressively for the rest of the tournament. And on Thursday, in front of a packed crowd at the Capital Indoor Stadium, the team was sharp, defeating Cuba in three sets, 25-20, 25-16, 25- 17. 
 When the game ended, Coach Lang Ping leaped from her chair and threw up her arms in victory. She slapped of her players on the back. All of them seemed to have energy to spare, bouncing around and hugging each other. Before walking off the court, they gathered in a huddle and shouted, ''U! U! U! U! U-S-A!''
 Lang told them to keep the merriment short.
 ''She said, 'No time to celebrate,' '' outside hitter Kimberly Glass said. ''Tomorrow we have a three-hour practice.''
 The United States women will play either China or Brazil in the final Saturday. Those teams will meet in the other semifinal Thursday night here.
 If China makes the final, that match is expected to be the one of the most -- if not the most -- watched event here at the Olympics among Chinese. 
 China's president, Hu Jintao, came to watch the first matchup between the Chinese and American volleyball teams at these Games. The Americans won in five sets.
 Glass's parents, Kathy Storms and Sherman Glass, won't be there for the final on Saturday, no matter who the Americans play.
 They had made previous arrangements to fly home from Beijing on Aug. 21. When Kimberly Glass first heard that, she said, ''Why, don't you have faith in me?'' While others may have doubted, Glass said she expected to be in the gold-medal game. So did her teammates. 
 They said they have been waiting for this moment for a long time.
 The last time the Americans played for gold was at the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles. They lost to a Chinese team, led by someone the current team knows know well: their coach, Lang.
 Lang, a sports icon here, began coaching the American team in 2005, leaving behind a life of celebrity in China. 
 As a player famous for her wicked spike, she was nicknamed the Iron Hammer, helping the Chinese team win several world championships in the 1980s, at a time when China was beginning to open up to the world.
 Here, she is more famous than Michael Jordan is in the United States. She is considered a spiritual figure that brought economic prosperity to China.
 Her wedding in 1986 was broadcast on state-run television. Her face also has been featured on a postage stamp. 
 But leaving the arena after Thursday's victory, she did not want to think about the possibility of playing her home country in the final.
 ''I want to enjoy this moment for just a few minutes,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (92%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



539 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'DEATH RACE'; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Automotive Metal In a Rusty Pileup Souffle

BYLINE: By NATHAN LEE

 BODY:
There's something to be said for a movie that knows exactly what it is and then whacks that knowledge home like a rusty pipe in the face. Case in point: ''Death Race,'' a delectable bit of B-movie savagery that actually does feature pipe melees, among much other kicky (and punchy and impaled-by-a-metal-spikey) ultraviolence. 
 The premise, updated from the 1975 cult classic ''Death Race 2000,'' is simple, sick and satisfying. In the year 2012, in response to the collapsing American economy, shady corporations have taken over the prison system and reap huge profits by staging gladiatorial pay-per-view contests among the prisoners.
 Out on Terminal Island, where the worst of the worst participate in the wildly popular Death Race showdown, an ice-queen warden named Hennessey (Joan Allen, slumming with style) faces a crisis. Her star driver, a mask-wearing psychopath named Frankenstein, has just met his maker at the tip of a missile. In a bid to maximize ratings, Hennessey hatches a plot to replace Frankenstein with Jensen Ames (Jason Statham), a former racing champ.
 Framed for the murder of his wife and shuffled off to Terminal Island, fury mounting and muscles rippling, Jensen is pressed into fending off a grimy assortment of gearhead sociopaths with the promise that if he wins the race he's free to go. Needless to say, things are about to blow up, quite literally, in everyone's face.
 And how they blow! Directed by Paul W. S. Anderson, a low-rent genre artisan who seems to have figured out a thing or two since staging ''Alien vs. Predator'' (or at least found a better crew to back him up), ''Death Race'' is a supercharged junkyard apocalypse powered by an unabashed relish for brutal comeuppance and a flair for delirious vehicular mayhem.
 Extended over three increasingly frantic, vividly murderous rounds, the Death Race itself is a tour de force of no-nonsense neo-grindhouse. Anchored by the ever-dependable Mr. Statham and his gruff, buff stoicism, the movie is legitimately greasy, authentically nasty, with a good old-fashioned sense of laying waste to everything in sight -- including the shallow philosophizing and computer-generated fakery that have overrun the summer blockbuster. 
 No fancy talk here, just solid, monosyllabic obscenities; no flights of digital fancy, just souped-up monster cars flipping end over end in a napalm blaze and crashing in a crunch of flaming metal ouch. 
 ''Death Race'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Mauling, maiming, bruising, beating, impalement, immolation, detonation, decapitation and a flagrant disregard of automotive etiquette. 
 DEATH RACE
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by Paul W. S. Anderson; written by Mr. Anderson, based on the screenplay ''Death Race 2000,'' produced by Roger Corman and written by Robert Thom and Charles Griffith, from the story by Ib Melchior; director of photography, Scott Kevan; edited by Niven Howie; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer, Paul Denham Austerberry; produced by Paula Wagner, Jeremy Bolt and Mr. Anderson; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. 
 WITH: Jason Statham (Jensen Ames), Tyrese Gibson (Machine Gun Joe), Ian McShane (Coach) and Joan Allen (Hennessey). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Jason Clarke, Jason Statham (in competition gear) and Joan Allen in ''Death Race.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAKASHI SEIDA/UNIVERSAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); MURDER (77%); PAY PER VIEW (73%); PRISONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Death Race (Movie)>; Death Race (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



540 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2675 words

HEADLINE: Movie Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'ANITA O'DAY: THE LIFE OF A JAZZ SINGER' (No rating, 1:32) This documentary about the great jazz singer who died in 2006 is a portrait of a woman who always lived by her own rules. Her total disregard for convention applied as much to singing as to her spectacularly messy life. (Stephen Holden) 
 'BACHNA AE HASEENO' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) After just one (failed) movie, Ranbir Kapoor was anointed a star. In ''Bachna,'' his second, he plays a cad who woos three women, which leads to heartache, remorse and redemption. Mr. Kapoor's sweetness doesn't quite suit the Don Juan role, but he charms when contrite. Bipasha Basu adds some comic spice as a pampered, ill-tempered movie star. (Rachel Saltz) 
 'BEAUTIFUL LOSERS' (No rating, 1:30) This fawning, self-serving documentary is directed by Aaron Rose, features Aaron Rose and is concerned with a group of middling, quasi-countercultural artists affiliated with a gallery founded by -- guess who? -- Aaron Rose. (Nathan Lee)
 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott) 
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives.
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DAYS AND CLOUDS' (No rating, 1:55, in Italian) Silvio Soldini's sad, grown-up film about a long-married couple in crisis suggests that Italy's middle class is as much under siege as that of the United States. In both countries, it appears, job security isn't what it used to be, and corporate downsizing is plunging more and more affluent families into abrupt financial tailspins. (Holden)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'ENCOUNTERS AT THE END OF THE WORLD' (G, 1:39) In this new documentary, that professional madman and restlessly curious filmmaker Werner Herzog travels to the blinding white of the Antarctic, where he meets melancholic scientists, brooding journeymen and various poets of the soul, along with all manner of otherworldly furry and floating creatures. (Dargis)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Holden)
 'A GIRL CUT IN TWO' (No rating, 1:50, in French) A rich, textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol, a sinister master of the art, who here returns to elegant, tight form with a beautifully directed story of a woman (Ludivine Sagnier) preyed upon by different men (Francois Berleand, Benoit Magimel) and her own warring desires. (Dargis)
 'GONZO: THE LIFE AND WORK OF DR. HUNTER S. THOMPSON' (R, 1:58) Alex Gibney's documentary is a thorough and fascinating illumination of its subject, the journalistic iconoclast who died in 2005. (Scott)
 'GET SMART' (PG-13, 1:51) The usual: feeble and funny jokes, brand actors (Steve Carell as, who else, Max) and enough special effects to give you some bang for your summertime buck. (Dargis)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Perlman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'HENRY POOLE IS HERE' (PG, 1:44) With characters named Esperanza, Dawn and Patience that signal Deeper Meaning, this movie, which stars Luke Wilson as a dying man, traffics in the kind of inspirational kitsch that only a true believer could swallow. (Holden)
 'JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH' (PG, 1:32) This preposterous and sloppy homage of sorts to Jules Verne should be seen, if at all, in the 3-D version, so you can duck and shriek when Brendan Fraser spits toothpaste off the screen. (Scott)
 'KIT KITTREDGE' (G, 1:40) Set in Cincinnati during the Great Depression, ''Kit Kittredge'' (based on the stories about the American Girl doll of the same name) follows a spunky 9-year-old (Abigail Breslin) as she struggles simultaneously to be a reporter and to save her family home. Despite a story unavoidably more invested in Kit's color-coordinated '30s outfits than in the harsh realities of extreme poverty, this classy, heart-on-its-sleeve movie is bolstered by lively adult performances (Stanley Tucci, Joan Cusack) and packed with laudable life lessons. (Catsoulis)
 'KUNG FU PANDA' (PG, 1:35) At once fuzzy-wuzzy and industrial strength, this animated DreamWorks feature about a panda (voiced by a restrained Jack Black) who becomes an unlikely if unsurprising hero is high concept with a heart. The tale has the consistency of baby pablum, but there's real beauty and pictorial wit here, along with a feeling for the art and for the freedom of animation. Directed by John Stevenson and Mark Osborne. (Dargis)
 'THE LAST MISTRESS' (No rating, 1:54, in French) An enthralling, often raw inquiry into cursed desire from the French writer and director Catherine Breillat, based on a 19th-century novel by Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly. A mesmerizing Asia Argento plays the mercurial courtesan who won't say no, and the luscious newcomer Fu'ad Ait Aattou plays the noble libertine who can't. (Dargis)
 'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MIRRORS' (R, 1:51) This minor chiller from Alexandre Aja features Kiefer Sutherland as an alcoholic ex-cop guarding the ruins of a burned-out department store whose spooky mirrors manipulate his reflection -- rather horribly, as it turns out. Though he offers several cringeworthy set pieces, Mr. Aja blows his entire Windex budget on an overcomplicated second half of amplified effects and diminishing returns. 
 (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'MONGOL' (R, 2:01) Or ''Genghis Khan: The Early Years.'' Old-style epic filmmaking, with all the grandeur you'd expect, and some of the tedium too. (Scott)
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden)
 'PATTI SMITH: DREAM OF LIFE' (No rating, 1:49) You may not learn everything you want to know about this punk godhead in Steven Sebring's impressionistic portrait -- a lovely, drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion -- but you learn just about everything you need. (Dargis)
 'PINEAPPLE EXPRESS' (R, 1:51) In the tradition of Cheech and Chong, Abbott and Costello, Hope and Crosby, Ricky and Lucy, Martin and Lewis, Rowan and Martin, Spicoli and Hand, Riggs and Murtaugh, dumb and dumber, right brain and left, peanut butter and jelly, bong hit and roach clip comes a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff. David Gordon Green directs; Seth Rogen and James Franco star. (Dargis)
 'SEX AND THE CITY' (R, 2:15) A little Botox goes a long way in Michael Patrick King's dumpy big-screen makeover of the much-adored small-screen delight, but a little decent writing would have gone even further. (Dargis) 
 'SINGH IS KINNG' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) This hyped-up action comedy broke box-office records in India, a testament to the appeal of its star, Akshay Kumar, who shines as a bumbling villager with a surfeit of good intentions. He's a Capraesque hero who spreads Indian values by example, most conspicuously as the accidental leader of a feared crime gang in Australia. And -- Bollywood crossover dreams, anybody? -- Snoop Dogg raps in a remix of the title song at the end. (Saltz)
 'THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS 2' (PG-13, 1:57) In this rambling sequel to a 2005 hit, four friends, now entering college, are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living; the movie is an upbeat alternative to ''The Hills'' and its ilk. (Holden)
 'SIXTY SIX' (PG-13, 1:33) In this dolorous British comedy, a 12-year-old boy sees his dreams of an elaborate bar mitzvah jeopardized by England's triumphant march toward the 1966 World Cup final. Leaning heavily, if inoffensively, on ethnic stereotypes, the movie charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. (Catsoulis)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STAR WARS: THE CLONE WARS' (PG, 1:35) As a mechanical thrill ride, this digitally animated ''Star Wars'' saga is more or less as satisfying its blockbuster predecessors. As a movie, it completes the franchise's slow divorce from photography-based cinema as well as any relationship to credible human feeling. (Lee)
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis) 
 'SWING VOTE' (PG-13, 2:00) A pleasant muddle about life, liberty and the pursuit of Budweiser, starring Kevin Costner as a good ol' drunk whose vote will decide the next presidential election. Directed by the relative newcomer Joshua Michael Stern, this film has a Red State setup and a serious case of the blues. (Dargis) 
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden) 
 'TROPIC THUNDER' (R, 1:47) A flashy, nasty, on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry, directed by Ben Stiller, who stars alongside Robert Downey Jr. (in blackface) and Jack Black (in itty- bitty bikini underwear). (Dargis) 
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'THE VISITOR' (PG-13, 1:43) Tom McCarthy's second film as writer and director (following ''The Station Agent'') is the quiet, subtle story of a self-effacing man's unexpected awakening. Richard Jenkins gives a faultless performance as a middle-aged, widowed professor jolted out of his malaise by his encounter with two unexpected houseguests. (Scott)
 'THE WACKNESS' (R, 1:35) A young man's coming-of-age in Manhattan in the summer of 1994. Some nice oddball touches -- notably Ben Kingsley playing a pothead psychiatrist -- but nothing terribly original. (Scott) 
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'WANTED' (R, 1:44) The cult Russian director Timur Bekmambetov blows up people and stuff with gusto in this noisy, ultraviolent, initially diverting, finally enervating shoot-'em-up with Angelina Jolie, her many tattoos and some guys. (Dargis)
 'THE X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)
 Film Series
 D. W. GRIFFITH: 100 YEARS LATER (Saturday and Sunday) July 14 marked the 100th anniversary of the release of the first movie directed by D. W. Griffith, ''The Adventures of Dollie,'' a milestone Anthology Film Archives is observing this weekend with a program of six of Griffith's Biograph one-reelers on Saturday (including ''Dollie'') and a screening of his modernist masterpiece ''Intolerance'' (1916) on Sunday. The Griffith scholar Robert Haller will introduce both programs. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Dave Kehr) 
 NEW YORK KOREAN FILM FESTIVAL (Friday through Thursday) This 10-day festival features 14 new films from South Korea, currently a red-hot center of cinematic activity, as fans of ''Oldboy'' and ''The Host'' do not need to be told. The lineup includes several of the country's top box-office successes from last year, including Lee Seong-han's old-school action film ''Spare'' (Sunday and Monday) and the colonial ghost story ''Epitaph'' (Saturday), directed by Jeong Beom-sik and Jeong Sik. Ahn Sung-ki, one of South Korea's most enduring stars (he won a best child actor award at the 1960 San Francisco Film Festival) and a favorite of the director Im Kwon-taek (''Chihwaseon''), will be honored with a four-film retrospective, and he'll be interviewed onstage Wednesday at the Korea Society, which is sponsoring the festival. Through Thursday, Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-3363, cinemavillage.com. Next Friday through Aug. 31, BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 623-2770, bam.org. Tickets are also available through the Korea Society, (212) 759-7525, koreanfilmfestival.org; $10. (Kehr)
 WOUNDED PRIDE, SIMMERING PASSION: ROBERTO GAVALDON (Friday through Thursday) One of the key directors of the Mexican cinema's golden age, Roberto Gavaldon worked in a wide variety of genres but specialized in thrillers, often collaborating with established writers like B. Traven and Jose Revueltas. This series begins Friday with his first solo work, ''La Barraca'' (1946), and continues with ''Macario'' (Friday, Sunday and Thursday), an Oscar-nominated 1960 fable of good versus evil based on a story by Traven and photographed by the great Gabriel Figueroa; ''Night Falls'' (Friday, Sunday and Tuesday), a 1952 film with Pedro Armendariz as a jai alai player blackmailed by the mob; and six other features. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11 (Kehr) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); POETRY (61%); MARRIAGE (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



541 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Deal Raises Officers' Pay 4% a Year

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Avoiding arbitration for the first time since 1994, the primary police officers' union reached a tentative four-year contract with New York City on Thursday that gives raises of 4 percent a year and increases starting salaries to nearly $42,000.
 The union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, which represents 23,000 police officers, said the agreement narrowed the salary gap with suburban police forces, a gap that has made it difficult for the city to recruit new officers. The contract covers two more years, with two years of retroactive increases. 
 The agreement, which was reached at the bargaining table, was unusual because negotiations between the police union and the city have been notoriously nasty, protracted fights traditionally settled only through an arbitration panel. 
 ''I've never been shy to stand on the steps of City Hall and say I didn't agree with something,'' said Patrick J. Lynch, the union's president. ''Well, I am equally not shy to stand inside City Hall and say when something is right. This is right. Our members should be very proud of this contract.''
 With the economy in a downturn, union officials felt pressure to seek raises through negotiations rather than through a lengthy arbitration process, which might have produced an unfavorable outcome.
 The annual raises of 4 percent are higher than the historic average for the city's municipal contracts. But they still lag behind the rapid growth in consumer prices over the last year, a rise of nearly 6 percent.
 At a City Hall news conference, Mr. Lynch and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stood together beaming, after years of criticizing each other.
 Mr. Bloomberg said, ''I have always believed the best contracts are those that are reached at the bargaining table, and I think this is a good example of that.''
 The agreement will increase starting pay to $41,975 by the end of the new contract, up from $35,881 under the old contract. It also increases base pay to $76,488 after five and a half years on the job, up from $65,382 under the old contract.
 The new agreement, on which the rank and file will vote over several weeks, runs from Aug. 1, 2006, through July 31, 2010. 
 Thursday's agreement comes just three months after an arbitration panel awarded police officers a retroactive raise of 9.7 percent for the period from Aug. 1, 2004, through July 31, 2006, while significantly raising starting pay for that period to an annual rate of $35,881 from $25,100.
 Police Department officials had complained bitterly about that $25,100 starting rate -- which had been ordered by an arbitration panel -- saying that it created huge difficulties for efforts to recruit enough police officers.
 Mayor Bloomberg applauded the new starting salary, saying, ''We believe this will help make the job more attractive to potential recruits so we can continue to attract even more top-quality candidates.''
 These negotiations had been carefully watched because New York City faces yawning budget gaps over the next several years. Mr. Bloomberg estimates a $2 billion shortfall in 2010.
 City officials said Thursday's agreement would increase payroll costs by $540 million over the four years. The 4 percent raises were based on a pattern set last year in a contract with the police sergeants' union. City officials said they had already budgeted for the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association's 4 percent increases.
 Union officials said they were also pleased that longevity pay increments, which police officers receive after 5, 10, 15 and 20 years on the job, would increase at the same rate as the basic pay, helping to lift pay for officers with greater seniority. 
 Traditionally, longevity pay remained unchanged, even as various contracts increased the police officers' starting pay and maximum basic pay.
 The city's contribution to the union's welfare fund will also increase, with the city also contributing a $400 one-time payment to each officer.
 In a victory for the union, shooting range practice will be conducted on a work day rather than on a vacation day, as the previous contract provided. 
 In a concession to the city, the union agreed to drop six lawsuits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some of the people in line for ''Hair'' tickets are professionals, charging a fee to wait. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); SUBURBS (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



542 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: 2 RIVALS' QUEST: COMMON TOUCH

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Michael Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Barack Obama and John McCain ripped into each other on Thursday over how many houses, fireplaces and even wine cellars they own, using allusions to net worth to deride each other while portraying themselves as able helmsmen for a faltering economy.
 With both candidates convinced that financially pinched voters might hold the electoral key in November -- especially in swing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania -- Senators Obama and McCain are taking new, vivid steps to empathize with struggling middle-class and working-class Americans, a tricky task given their own personal wealth. 
 In a new television advertisement and at an event in Virginia on Thursday, Mr. Obama seized on new comments by Mr. McCain, made a day earlier, expressing uncertainty about the number of homes he owned. (Eight, with his wife, Obama aides said; four, McCain aides said.) Obama advisers cast the McCain remark as politically explosive, contrasting it with the mortgage foreclosure crisis that has upended the American dream of owning even one home.
 The McCain camp swiftly countered with its own advertisement and condemnations, noting that Mr. Obama owns a ''mansion'' -- a disputable characterization -- with four fireplaces in Chicago, and reviving questions about his land deal with Antoin Rezko, a businessman who was convicted in June on fraud and corruption charges.
 The exchange highlighted how, as economic issues increasingly dominate the campaign, the two presumptive presidential nominees are still searching for ways to connect with voters on the economy. Mr. Obama sometimes seems professorial in response to personal problems, while Mr. McCain seemed more than half-serious on Saturday when he defined ''rich'' as having $5 million or more.
 ''It's now clear that the economy will be the tipping point in this election,'' said Jack F. Kemp, the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 1996 and a former housing secretary, ''and the candidate who has the best answer to getting America growing again without inflation is going to tap the winning segment of this electorate. 
 ''I like John's ideas, but he has more to do in terms of making his case and connecting with voters on the economy.''
 For all the candidates' detailed position papers, many undecided taxpayers and homeowners appear to be looking at the candidates themselves, as well as their speeches, body language and stagecraft, in hopes of making a visceral identification. 
 Part of the challenge for both men is that they have campaigned largely on character traits: Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, as a war hero who stuck with the troop surge in Iraq in spite of criticism, and Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, as a change agent who would unite voters with a hopeful message.
 ''Obama has the better set of policies,'' said Robert E. Rubin, a former secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton. ''But has he effectively conveyed those policies in a way that votes will understand? That's the challenge for his campaign.'' 
 And one way for each to connect with voters is to suggest his opponent's own lack of understanding of the economic struggles facing Americans, which was underscored by the exchanges on Thursday. 
 Mr. Obama became a millionaire by writing books, and he lost primaries this spring in Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania to a rival who appealed to voters with a can-do political platform on pocketbook issues, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. Mr. McCain, meanwhile, overcame a primary challenge from former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a wealthy executive who also focused on the economy.
 ''Neither Obama nor McCain owns the economy as an issue because they've never focused on it, really, in ways that working-class families would identify with,'' said Jimmy Siegel, who helped create political advertisements for Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign. ''Obama has always been about hope and change, in a broad sense, while McCain has always been about foreign policy and experience.'' 
 Perhaps taking his cue from the Clinton campaign's successes, Mr. Obama is encouraging voters to start to share with him their stories of personal hardship. And he is taking more opportunities to emphasize his own understanding of hardship with them, although it does not always come easy.
 At a town-hall-style meeting on Thursday in Chester, Va., Mr. Obama was asked what he would do for poor people. He began with a lengthy explication about how poor people do not hate the rich, they simply want to join the middle class. He described parts of his economic plan, which he said would put more money in their pockets. He described the life of Deval Patrick, the governor of Massachusetts, who grew up poor on the South Side of Chicago. It was only then, several minutes into his answer, that Mr. Obama might have connected more by referring to his own life.
 ''My mother was on food stamps for a while,'' he said. ''It wasn't because she was lazy. It's because she was a single mom who was working and going to school at the same time, trying to raise two kids, trying to make a better life for herself and her family.''
 The point, he told his listeners, was this: ''Don't be fooled by all this talk about class warfare. We just want to make the economy fair so that everybody's got a chance, not just some people.''
 Mr. McCain has focused on offshore oil drilling and broad tax relief as steps to directly assist the greatest number of working Americans, by lowering taxes and, his campaign hopes, both gas prices and home foreclosures. McCain aides say the candidate will strongly push his economic program in the weeks to come, including during the Democratic National Convention next week.
 The exact number of McCain family homes was difficult to pin down on Thursday, as the issue would not go away after it was raised in an interview with Politico the day before. 
 McCain aides said the family had four residences: a ranch in Sedona, Ariz.; a condo in Phoenix; a condo in Northern Virginia; and a condo in San Diego that is made up of two adjoining properties. The family trust of Mr. McCain's wife, Cindy, controls other properties that relatives use as homes. The Obama campaign said that it based its figure of eight on the number of properties it says Mrs. McCain, and in some cases Mr. McCain, appear to own. 
 The Obama home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago, meanwhile, does have four fireplaces and a wine cellar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain at his home in Phoenix earlier this year. The number of homes he owns has become a campaign issue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHAN SAVOIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Barack Obama and Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia campaigned Thursday in Chester, Va.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); CORRUPTION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (51%) OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



543 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DEBATES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Fall Calendar Fills Up

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
An outline of the fall campaign is beginning to take shape, with debate plans completed and an apparent agreement between Senators John McCain and Barack Obama to take the stage, separately, at a forum in New York on Sept. 11, the seventh anniversary of the terrorist attacks. 
 The debate schedule is as follows:
 Sept. 26 at the University of Mississippi, on foreign policy and national security, moderated by Jim Lehrer of PBS, with the candidates standing at lecterns.
 Oct. 7 at Belmont University in Nashville, with questions from the audience and the Internet, moderated by Tom Brokaw of NBC News, in a town-hall-style format.
 Oct. 15 at Hofstra University on Long Island, on domestic and economic policy, moderated by Bob Schieffer of CBS News, with candidates seated at a table.
 All debates will begin at 9 p.m. and last 90 minutes. One vice-presidential debate is scheduled for Oct. 2 at Washington University in St. Louis, moderated by Gwen Ifill of PBS. The format is yet to be decided.
 In addition, a group called ServiceNation announced that the presidential candidates had agreed to participate, one after the other, in a prime-time forum on service and civic engagement planned for Sept. 11 in New York. The forum is to be moderated by Richard Stengel, managing editor of Time magazine. 
 KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



544 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Voters to Congressional Candidates: 'Energy Is the No. 1 Issue'

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and MONICA DAVEY; Kirk Johnson reported from Cheyenne Wells, and Monica Davey from Stillwater, Minn.

DATELINE: CHEYENNE WELLS, Colo. 

 BODY:
The politics of energy are convoluted and volatile in Congressional campaigns across the United States this summer, as candidates search for a Goldilocks approach that is neither too hot nor too cold, and that voters will believe is sincere.
 In Nebraska's Second Congressional District, Representative Lee Terry, a Republican, this week began airing an advertisement in which he points to the images of three Saudi officials and gruffly says, of rising gasoline prices, ''these guys benefit.'' 
 In Kansas's Third Congressional District, Nick Jordan, a Republican, has a ''Dennis Moore's Vacation From Energy Solutions Clock'' ticking away at the top of his Web site, referring to the Democratic incumbent there.
 Here in Colorado, where Democrats gather next week for their convention, candidates have sparred relentlessly over energy. By most accounts, it is the No. 1 issue in the Fourth Congressional District, a mostly rural area that sprawls across Colorado's boundary with the Great Plains. 
 In the small towns and wind-swept farms of the Fourth District, it is easy to find people like Rod Diekman. Mr. Diekman is outraged about the particulars of the energy crunch, including the prices for fuel and fertilizer that are battering his 3,500-acre wheat and millet farm just north of Cheyenne Wells, and the lack of electricity-transmission capacity that is blocking construction of a wind-turbine plant on his property.
 But like many voters, Mr. Diekman also has plenty of scorn left over for the politicians.
 ''They're all just saying what they think I want to hear,'' said Mr. Diekman, 53, standing at the door to the repair shed where he rebuilds tractor-trailer rigs as a sideline to make ends meet.
 The fierce tactical positioning of candidates here and elsewhere -- some call it pandering and waffling -- is producing a convergence of sorts around the idea that more is better, that an expansion of energy production from all sources and places will somehow fix things, lower prices and restore stability to the economy.
 ''It's a very fine line to walk,'' said Betsy Markey, a Democrat who is challenging Representative Marilyn Musgrave, a Republican, here in the Fourth District.
 Ms. Markey opposes drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, for example; Ms. Musgrave heads there this week to decide for herself. Both candidates support expansion of renewable energy like wind, but Ms. Markey says that Ms. Musgrave's long record on the issue -- voting against renewable energy standards in Congress as recently as last August and against tax credits for the wind industry this year -- tells a different story.
 In Minnesota -- where the Republicans will gather for their convention next month -- the race in the Sixth Congressional District also tells the tale of an energy-policy free-for-all that is challenging candidates and voters alike.
 In the district, a traditionally conservative-leaning region that hugs the northern suburbs and exurbs of the Twin Cities, the positions of the major candidates on energy have begun to appear not so far apart. Each side seems to be stretching beyond ground traditionally staked out by its party, onto terrain long occupied by the opposing one.
 Along the campaign trail, Representative Michele Bachmann, a Republican seeking a second term, emphasizes that she supports widening exploration for gas and oil in places like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (which she toured this summer, in addition to an oil rig in the Gulf Coast), but also speaks highly of renewable energy sources, like the solar shingles she saw in a laboratory.
 Meanwhile, El Tinklenberg, Ms. Bachmann's Democratic opponent, trumpets an alternative energy tour he took through the district in recent weeks -- to a wind-turbine contractor, a waste-to-fuel plant, a group working to make algae into biodiesel, a park-and-ride lot -- but also says he favors more domestic exploration for oil (though he stops short of expansion in the Arctic wildlife refuge).
 Of this newly and awkwardly shared ground, each side expressed deep skepticism of the other. In both the Colorado and Minnesota races, the candidates say they want to look at all approaches in this moment of crisis, but doubt their opponents truly do.
 At a gasoline station in Stillwater, Minn., last week, Mrs. Bachmann wandered up to drivers as they watched the numbers at the pumps flip higher and higher. In recent weeks, aides said, she has made several appearances at gasoline stations in her district, a place that -- with some 30-mile and longer commutes to the Twin Cities for work -- knows all too well the woes of gasoline prices.
 What, she asked each voter, should she tell her colleagues in Washington about what to do about gasoline prices? 
 ''Start drilling, that's what we need to do,'' said Roger Aho, 65, as Mrs. Bachmann nodded. ''Alternative energy is O.K., but we have to keep looking for oil. It's been around for a long time, and it's going to be around a long time.'' 
 At the next pump, Daniel Ohl, 23, told Mrs. Bachmann that her colleagues should pursue alternative energy sources. She nodded. She told him about the solar shingles.
 Afterward, both men said they were impressed with Mrs. Bachmann's thoughts on energy. Mr. Aho voted for her before and is likely to again, he said. Mr. Ohl, who said he and his girlfriend were now spending more on gasoline ($300 a week) than on rent, food or anything else, said he usually favored Democratic candidates. But, he added, ''She is one of the only ones I've ever heard talking seriously about renewable fuel sources.''
 In Colorado, Ms. Markey, the Democratic challenger in the Fourth District, said she has sometimes found that Republican voters like much of her message on energy, but plan on voting for Ms. Musgrave anyway. 
 On a recent swing through the town of Sterling, Ms. Markey stopped in to visit with John C. Wray II, owner of Marsau's, an auto parts supply shop. They sat down in his office. Mr. Wray, a Republican, asked Ms. Markey about her energy positions and she said that drilling had to be expanded, but that some areas should remain off limits for environmental reasons or wildlife protection. He asked about nuclear power and she said that it should be looked at, too, but that disposal issues for spent nuclear fuel remained unsettled and had to be addressed first.
 ''Energy is the No. 1 issue,'' Mr. Wray said. 
 (Ms. Musgrave's office did not respond to repeated e-mail and phone requests for comment about the energy debate in her district.)
 Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. of Colorado, a Democrat who was elected in 2006, has pushed to make the state a national headquarters for renewable energy research, manufacturing and production, with Ms. Musgrave's district -- if only by dint of geography, because that is where the wind is in Colorado -- front and center. Of the nearly 1,200 megawatts of wind-power turbines in the state as of the end of last year, almost all are in Ms. Musgrave's district.
 ''We're building a new economy,'' Mr. Ritter said in an interview in his office in Denver. ''This is not a conversation of desperation; this is a conversation of opportunity.''
 But there is a deep well of discontent as well about where that ''new energy economy,'' as Mr. Ritter calls it, has delivered on its promise.
 Here in Cheyenne Wells, a struggling community of just over 1,000 people that has lost about 10 percent of its population since 2000, many people say the future hinges on renewables. But unlike areas to the north and south in the Fourth District, where high-voltage transmission lines are already in place to ship the energy out, Cheyenne Wells's wind-powered future is just a frustrating, and, for now, unattainable vision.
 ''It's the next boom waiting to happen,'' said the mayor, Monte Baker, a wheat farmer and Republican. ''But based on the numbers being thrown to me, it's 10 years before a viable wind farm can be built locally, before it's on the grid.''
 Meanwhile, the more complex components of the energy debate, from climate change to conservation, often get mostly lost in the drumbeat of simplified answers, leaving some voters more confused, or torn, than ever. 
 Mr. Diekman, for example, the Colorado wheat farmer, rails against environmentalists. But then a few minutes later, he conceded that environmentalists and their political allies might also be more likely to push for expanded transmission lines into the rural areas like eastern Colorado that would allow wind energy to expand.
 ''I don't know,'' he shrugged. ''I'm just trying to look out for No. 1.''
 In Minnesota's Sixth District, Keith Bogdan, 50, admitted his confusion, too.
 ''I'm not sure what they can do; I'm not sure what the answers are,'' Mr. Bogdan said. ''But I wish they could find a way to make the price of gas O.K., or at least consistent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rod Diekman says his farm near Cheyenne Wells, Colo., is suffering under the energy crunch, putting the cost of fuel and fertilizer increasingly out of reach.
Voters in rural areas of Colorado are calling on politicians to come up with energy solutions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mayor Monte Baker of Cheyenne Wells sees a future in wind power, but says it will be 10 years before a wind farm is built.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); WIND POWER PLANTS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); FERTILIZERS (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); WILDLIFE (64%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (61%)

PERSON: MARILYN N MUSGRAVE (78%); BETSY MARKEY (78%); DENNIS MOORE (58%); LEE TERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ARCTIC (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



545 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: McCain Advisers Say Stance on Abortion Is Crucial for No. 2

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Katharine Q. Seelye contributed reporting from Emporia Va., and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

DATELINE: SEDONA, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain has narrowed his list of potential running mates to a handful of candidates and appears unlikely to select anyone who supports abortion rights, several advisers close to his campaign said on Thursday. 
 Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota are the top candidates as Mr. McCain and his advisers gather over the next several days at Mr. McCain's cabin near Sedona, they said.
 McCain associates recently put forth two other candidates, former Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, as possibilities. Both men support abortion rights. 
 People close to the campaign also floated a wild-card choice, Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq. They said it was not beyond the realm of possibility that Mr. McCain would ask him to join the ticket, although General Petraeus has no experience in elective government and has said repeatedly that he is not interested in the vice presidency. 
 One adviser characterized General Petraeus, who presided over a recent reduction of violence in Iraq, as more of a wish-list candidate for Mr. McCain, who, like the general, long supported sending additional troops to quell the insurgency. The adviser said the campaign was putting forth his name in part in a bid for attention at a time when Senator Barack Obama's choice of running mate, which is to be announced in the next few days, was dominating the media. 
 Advisers cautioned that Mr. McCain had not yet made up his mind about a running mate and that he would listen to their opinions but ultimately do what he wanted. Mr. McCain has shared his thoughts on the matter with only a small group of top aides.
 For his part, Mr. Obama said on Thursday that he had settled on his choice but would not reveal who.
 ''I've made the selection, and that's all you're going to get,'' Mr. Obama told reporters at Virginia Favorites Ltd., a peanut and gift shop in Emporia, Va.
 He only slightly expanded on the topic in an interview published Thursday in USA Today.
 ''I want somebody who's independent, somebody who can push against my preconceived notions and challenge me so we have got a robust debate in the White House,'' Mr. Obama told the newspaper.
 He called his decision difficult and said that ''we had some great choices.''
 Mr. Obama's itinerary over the next week to the Democratic National Convention in Denver, released by his campaign on Thursday afternoon, offered few clues. On Saturday, as has been widely reported, Mr. Obama is to appear at the Old State Capitol in Springfield, Ill., presumably with his running mate. 
 But reports of a rally in Indiana, which boosted the spirits of supporters of a top Democratic running mate possibility, Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, were not borne out, at least not on the campaign's public schedule.
 After Springfield, Mr. Obama will be in Wisconsin on Sunday, Iowa on Monday, Missouri on Tuesday and Montana on Wednesday. He is to deliver his acceptance speech in Denver on Thursday.
 Within Mr. McCain's campaign, a recent focus has been on Mr. Ridge and Mr. Lieberman. Mr. McCain thinks highly of both men and has traveled extensively with Mr. Lieberman. But Christian conservatives, a crucial Republican constituency, reacted with alarm this week to speculation that either man might join the ticket.
 Mr. McCain heard that sentiment first-hand on Wednesday when a participant at a town-hall-style meeting in New Mexico asked if would pick a running mate whom conservatives could rally around or one ''who makes us stay at home.'' Mr. McCain sidestepped the question.
 It was unclear if Mr. McCain's associates put forth Mr. Ridge and Mr. Lieberman because the candidate really wanted to select one of them or whether they were doing so to make him appear open-minded, or both. But it was Mr. McCain himself, long an opponent of abortion rights, who started much of the recent speculation about Mr. Ridge.
 ''Ridge is one of the great leaders, and he happens to be pro-choice,'' Mr. McCain told the Weekly Standard magazine last week, in comments widely disseminated. ''I don't think that would necessarily rule Tom Ridge out.''
 Mr. Romney, who is Mormon, might not be the easiest sell to Christian conservatives, and there remains some opposition to him among evangelical Christians.
 Advisers said, however, that as a successful businessman he would bring an economic fluency to the ticket that Mr. McCain lacks, as well as family ties to Michigan, a crucial swing state, where Mr. Romney's father was governor.
 Mr. Pawlenty, an evangelical Christian, traveled frequently with Mr. McCain during the primaries, but he is little known outside Minnesota.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, serving his second term, has traveled with John McCain.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER SIMONSON/STAR TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mitt Romney, a business executive, is said to offer economic fluency to a Republican ticket.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL PAGE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ABORTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ARMED FORCES (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (88%); DAVID PETRAEUS (86%); TIM PAWLENTY (72%); EVAN BAYH (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEDONA, AZ, USA (88%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



546 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: New Small-Business Chief Has Critics Already

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Santanu K. Baruah, a former Commerce Department official, began serving this week as acting administrator of the Small Business Administration.
 President Bush appointed Mr. Baruah on Aug. 15 as acting administrator under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, which allows him to remain in the post through the end of the current administration. 
 He was nominated on June 26 but his confirmation ran into bipartisan concerns over several issues at the agency, particularly a multimillion-dollar provision for government contracts for female-owned businesses. 
 Last December, the agency issued a rule narrowly defining the women's government contracting program, which set off protests on Capitol Hill and among women's groups.
 Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, accused President Bush on Thursday of circumventing the confirmation process and of undercutting efforts to open government contracting opportunities for women. 
 ''This nominee and the administration know that I am vehemently opposed to them moving forward with the unconstitutional women's procurement rule that makes it harder for women to access federal contracts,'' Mr. Kerry said.
 Lawmakers were further irked because the Small Business Administration sent a final draft of the women's contracting rule to the Office of Budget and Management. Its contents will not be officially released until October. 
 Opponents fear that despite having received some 1,600 comments since the rule was published in the Federal Register earlier this year, the agency has retained the narrow definition that elicited the protests in the first place. Critics say they believe that would flout Congress's 2000 mandate that female-owned businesses receive at least 5 percent of the $435 billion in annual government contracts.
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who is the ranking minority member on the committee, tried to extract a pledge from Mr. Baruah on the issue at a meeting last month. Ms. Snowe said she ''demanded Mr. Baruah make a commitment to either withdraw this proposed rule or defer action on this issue until the next administration.''
 Mr. Baruah, who was assistant secretary for economic development at the Commerce Department, did not make a commitment. Even so, Ms. Snowe this week issued a statement welcoming his designation but urging him to ''rectify the administration's recent failure to implement a meaningful women's contracting rule.''
 Although little known in the small-business community, Mr. Baruah spent more than two years at the Economic Development Administration, which gives development grants to communities that have suffered job losses for reasons like the movement of manufacturing overseas. Before joining the Bush administration, he worked for seven years as a senior consultant at the Performance Consulting Group in Portland, Ore., which had some big-name clients like Walt Disney and Intel. The firm closed in 2000.
 Mr. Baruah, 43, also served in the administration of George H. W. Bush, working as a legislative affairs officer in the Labor Department and as a confidential assistant for the Interior secretary.
 Several small-business groups said it was beneficial to have an administration-selected agency head because the hurricane season was beginning, and a firm hand was needed to oversee the agency's disaster loan program. The program was overwhelmed after Hurricane Katrina, and the former administrator, Steven C. Preston, made overhauling the program a top priority.
 Karen A. Kerrigan, president and chief executive of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, a small-business association, said Mr. Baruah's appointment would put the agency on solid footing.
 Ms. Kerrigan also said Mr. Baruah's economic development service gave him experience ''working with local communities and local businesses so he understands government interaction with communities.''
 The American Small Business League, which has locked horns with the Small Business Administration over the awards of small-business contracts to large corporations, has been critical. Its president, Lloyd Chapman, has publicly worried that Mr. Baruah's goal is to either eliminate the Small Business Administration or fold it into the Commerce Department. 
 Mr. Chapman also said Mr. Baruah's lack of small-business experience meant he was not qualified for the job. 
 When he took up the post last week, Mr. Baruah said in a statement that he planned to ''help S.B.A. carry on its mission as it navigates the height of hurricane season and deals with the current economic challenges and tightening credit opportunities for small business.'' 
 He said, through a spokeswoman, that he was too busy learning his new job for an interview, but the S.B.A.'s announcement emphasized that he ''has worked for small businesses, helped small businesses grow, and was raised by a mother who ran her own small business.''
 That would be Ranee Baruah, who owned Ranee's Imported and Domestic Foods, a coffee, tea and spices store in Salem, Ore. It closed in the early 1990s, Mr. Baruah said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Santanu K. Baruah, the acting head of the Small Business Administration, ran into bipartisan confirmation problems.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (92%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (50%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008



547 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: There Are No Points for Style in the Marathon

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Great swimmers must have great genetic gifts and also a great technique. The same goes for pole-vaulters and high jumpers, for tennis players and gymnasts.
 But the men who are running in the marathon here Sunday will hardly exemplify one perfect technique. There will be heel strikers and men who land on their midfoot and there may be a few who land on their forefoot. There will be men who bob up and down and men who seem to glide. There will be men who flail their arms and those whose arms pump smoothly at their waists.
 And there is no way to tell by looking at a runner whether he will win, place or come in last. 
 ''The notion that there is one way to run is not, in my opinion, correct,'' said Peter Cavanagh, a professor of orthopedics and sports medicine at the University of Washington. 
 Constantina Tomescu, the Romanian runner who won the women's marathon last Sunday, ran with her arms wide, elbows out. Paula Radcliffe of Britain, who finished 23rd here but set the current world record for the women's marathon in 2005, running in 2 hours 17 minutes 2 seconds, has a head-bobbing style. 
 Yet Olympic runners themselves often persist in thinking there is a right way to run, Cavanagh said. 
 ''For many years, I worked with Olympic marathoners at the training center in Colorado Springs,'' he said. They would ask him if it would help to change the position of their hands and arms. The answer, he said, was not likely. 
 ''I could not measure any differences in economy with small differences in arm carriage,'' Cavanagh said. 
 One of his graduate students even did a study asking how much runners' efficiency changed when they had their arms tied behind their backs. There was, Cavanagh said, ''almost no difference.''
 ''Everything people are told is based on the best opinion of coaches rather than on the best evidence,'' Cavanagh said.
 Even being economical -- using the least energy at a given speed -- is not necessarily the determining factor in winning a race. In fact, in cycling, athletes actually seem to spurn the most economical way to ride. 
 The most economical pedaling cadence, says Philip Martin, chairman of the department of kinesiology at Iowa State University, is 50 to 60 revolutions per minute. But elite cyclists ride at 90 to 95 revolutions per minute. 
 ''I don't think we have an answer for that,'' Martin said.
 Some of the nation's best runners have not been particularly economical. That includes Steve Prefontaine, who once held the American record in five track events, including the 5,000 and 10,000 meters. But Prefontaine wasted energy when he ran, Cavanagh discovered when he studied him in 1976. Prefontaine made up for it, though, with a tremendous ability to pump blood to his muscles. ''He had the biggest engine,'' Cavanagh said.
 While it may seem that runners should practically glide along as they run, some of the greatest runners bob. They include Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia, who holds the world record for the marathon in 2:04.26.
 But Kenenisa Bekele of Ethiopia, who holds the world records in the 5,000 and the 10,000, runs so smoothly that ''if you look at his head, it looks like he is sliding around the track,'' said Jos Hermens, a former Olympic runner and the agent for Bekele and Gebrselassie.
 Elite runners also hit the ground in different ways. 
 A few, like Gebrselassie, run on their toes -- heels never touch the ground. It is a style that requires his calves to absorb the shock. So he works to prevent calf injuries, doing exercises and using weights at the gym to build up his calf muscles, Hermens said. And he has had two operations to repair running injuries to his Achilles' tendon from running, Hermens added.
 Bekele runs on his midfoot. ''It is more like a shuffle kind of running,'' Hermens explained. 
 Still others, like the American record holder in the women's marathon, Deena Kastor, run heel to toe. 
 One researcher, William J. Kraemer of the University of Connecticut, recently videotaped 415 runners in a half-marathon, including elite distance runners and Olympians. Most ran heel to toe, but the faster the runners were, a greater proportion struck the ground with their midfoot, Kraemer reported. Among the top 50 runners midway through the race, 62 percent ran heel to toe, 36 percent were midfoot runners and 2 percent ran like Gebrselassie, striking the ground with their forefoot.
 Cavanagh said there were only a few aspects of running style that could be modified to improve performance. Each can add only a quarter- to half-percent to a runner's economy in a race like the marathon. But in the Olympics, that can make the difference between a medal and not placing.
 Another factor is shoes. Heel-to-toe runners in particular can lose energy if the midsole of their shoe is too soft. The only way to know whether a shoe is optimal for an individual, though, is for the runner to test it while running in a physiology lab. And that is almost never done, Cavanagh said.
 Another aspect is stride length. When he tested runners in a lab, Cavanagh discovered that most naturally fell into a stride length that was optimal for them. But a few improved their running economy by changing their strides.
 Yet another is how hard the runner's foot hits the ground. The idea, Cavanagh said, is ''to make it a controlled landing, not a collision.''
 But for every rule there are great runners who exemplify it and great runners who are exceptions to it.
 Emil Zatopek, a Czech distance runner who won the 5,000, the 10,000 meters and the marathon at the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki, ran with his head thrusting upward and his arms flailing. He has been described as running like a man with his head in a noose.
 At the other extreme was Frank Shorter, who won the marathon in the 1972 Games in Munich. ''He is widely thought to be the most smooth and beautiful runner,'' Cavanagh said. 
 ''So there you have it,'' Cavanagh said. Zatopek and Shorter, he said, ''are bookends'' on the notion that style determines performance.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the varied styles of marathon runners at the Beijing Olympics misstated the year and the time for the women's world record set by Paula Radcliffe of Britain. Her record of 2 hours 15 minutes 25 seconds was set in 2003; it was not 2 hours 17 minutes 2 seconds in 2005.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenenisa Bekele of Ethiopia, right, who holds the world records in the 5,000 and the 10,000, runs so smoothly that ''if you look at his head, it looks like he is sliding around the track,'' said Jos Hermens, a former Olympic runner. Bekele also runs on his midfoot, while some other elite runners run heel to toe or just on their toes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (93%); MARATHONS (92%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); RUNNING (89%); SPORTS MEDICINE (78%); SPORTS (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); KINESIOLOGY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); CYCLING (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



548 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Vote in Alaska Puts Question of Gold or Fish, and the State Is Split

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: DILLINGHAM, Alaska 

 BODY:
Just up the fish-rich rivers that surround this tiny bush town on Bristol Bay is a discovery of copper and gold so vast and valuable that no one seems able to measure it all. Then again, no one really knows the value of the rivers, either. They are the priceless headwaters of one of the world's last great runs of Pacific salmon. 
 ''Perhaps it was God who put these two great resources right next to each other,'' said John T. Shively, the chief executive of a foreign consortium that wants to mine the copper and gold deposit. ''Just to see what people would do with them.''
 What people are doing is fighting as Alaskans hardly have before. While experts say the mine could yield more than $300 billion in metals and hundreds of jobs for struggling rural Alaska, unearthing the metals could mean releasing chemicals that are toxic to the salmon that are central to a fishing industry worth at least $300 million each year. And while the metals are a finite discovery, the fish have replenished themselves for millenniums. 
 ''If they have one spill up there, what's going to happen?'' said Steve Shade, 50, an Alaska Native who has fished on Bristol Bay all his life, for dinner and for a living. ''This is our livelihood. They're going to ruin it for everybody.''
 Rarely are Alaskans at odds over which of their natural resources they want to exploit. Oil? Timber? Minerals? Fish? While outsiders and some state residents may urge restraint, most people here typically just select all.
 Yet the fight over what is known as the Pebble Mine is playing out as a war between economies and cultures, between copper and clean water, gold and wild salmon. Strange alliances and divisions have developed. Miners have been pitted against fishermen, as have Yupik Eskimos, Aleuts and Athabascan Indians and other Alaska Native people who want the jobs the new mine could bring versus those who fear it threatens thousands of years of culture. 
 Now the fight is expanding, from the bush to the ballot.
 On Tuesday, Alaskans will vote on Measure 4, an initiative intended to increase protections for streams where salmon live. Over just a few months, the measure has become one of the most expensively fought campaigns in state history, with the two sides expected to spend a total of more than $10 million. Opponents of the measure have outraised supporters by more than two to one. 
 The vote is expected to be close, reflecting the bitter campaign. Television, radio and Internet advertisements on both sides have evoked things like exploding mine sites, vibrant red sockeye, sturdy-looking miners worried about their jobs and sturdy-looking fishermen worried about their jobs. Jewelers, including Tiffany & Company, have pledged not to use gold from Pebble Mine, while some powerful corporations run by Alaska Native groups say the mine is crucial to the rural economy. 
 Fear prevails, on both sides, even though it could be 2010 before developers submit a formal application to build Pebble Mine and many more years before the first ore is extracted. 
 ''I've never been a guy who's been in bed with the environmental movement,'' said Brian Gannon, who manages a small salmon processing plant north of Dillingham and supports Measure 4, ''but this is about survival for me.''
 Opponents of the Pebble Mine worry that it will open the entire area to mining. For now, the most likely possibility is that Pebble Mine would be a combination of open-pit and underground, because of the way minerals are dispersed. Both methods could require huge holding areas for toxic mine waste with walls hundreds of feet high, as well as a facility for processing ore, pumps that remove millions of gallons of water from the ground and an 80-mile road in an area that is now accessible only by helicopter. 
 ''It's going to have to be the most environmentally tight mine ever designed on planet Earth if it's going to go,'' said Ed Fogels, director of project management and permitting at the Alaska Department of Natural Resources. ''That's unequivocal.''
 But speaking of the Pebble Mine site, where exploratory drilling rigs have already sampled more than 700 sections of the deposit, Mr. Fogels added: ''We're supposed to be managing it for multiple uses. There's this mandate that we need to somehow make a living off Alaska's state land.''
 It is unclear what impact Measure 4 would have if it passed. Supporters play down its reach, saying it would strengthen protections for salmon at new mine sites, but mining companies and the Alaska Native corporations allied with them cast it as a veiled effort to shut down the state's growing mining industry by putting up new legal obstacles in the permit process.
 ''It's broad, it's unspecific, it's going to be subject to many legal challenges,'' said Willis Lyford, campaign director for Alaskans Against the Mining Shutdown, which is spending more than $6 million, largely provided by the mining industry, to fight the initiative. 
 Opponents criticize supporters, led by the groups Renewable Resources Coalition and Alaskans for Clean Water, for relying on money from national political groups and other big donors, including Robert B. Gillam, a wealthy Republican investor who owns a 10,000-square-foot fishing and hunting getaway about 30 miles from the proposed mine.
 Supporters of Measure 4, who qualified it for the ballot by collecting more than 30,000 signatures of registered voters, say their diversity reflects the range of opposition to the mine, including sport fishermen, commercial fishing companies, environmentalists and Alaska Native groups. They cite a variety of mining projects that have damaged fisheries in the West.
 Supporters say an initiative like Measure 4 is necessary because they have fewer tools to fight Pebble Mine since the proposed site is on state land, not federal. They say state officials, however concerned they may be about fisheries and environmental health, are essentially in the business of granting permits, not denying them. The lack of a federal role, they say, has kept Pebble Mine at a lower profile than debates over drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge or logging in the Tongass National Forest.
 ''We're just trying to convince Alaskans that, O.K., we can have mining, just not in this place,'' said Tim Bristol, director of Trout Unlimited Alaska. ''It's such an exceptional risk to such an exceptional fishery.''
 Specifically, the measure would prevent new large-scale mines from releasing toxins into water where salmon live. State officials have said the language essentially duplicates existing regulations. If the measure passes, said Mr. Fogels, of the Department of Natural Resources, ''we don't anticipate doing anything different.''
 Others disagree and expect a long legal battle if the measure becomes law.
 Mr. Shively, the chief executive of Pebble Partnership, the consortium of Canadian and British companies that have already spent more than $300 million exploring the site, was hired this spring in part to counter the idea that Pebble Mine would mostly benefit foreign investors with little interest in the state's economic or environmental health. 
 ''I certainly don't want my legacy to be that we destroyed a fishery or part of a fishery,'' said Mr. Shively, who first came to the state in the 1960s as an advocate for Alaska Natives, and has since served in a variety of roles, including with a powerful Alaska Native corporation and as a vice president for the cruise line Holland America. ''But if we can do it correctly, I'd love to see it done, because I think the benefits are huge.''
 The mine site, roughly four square miles in size, sits in a gorgeous, remote valley northeast of Dillingham and about 10 minutes by helicopter from the small Alaska Native village of Iliamna. An active volcano spews steam not far away -- yet another risk, as are earthquakes, say the mine's opponents.
 Iliamna has been transformed into a base camp for workers doing the exploratory drilling, environmental testing and other advance work on the mine. Unlike many other bush villages, Iliamna, reachable only by plane or snowmobile, now has a smoothly paved landing strip, fresh asphalt on its few roads and a new post office and medical clinic. 
 Some Alaska Natives have found work as housekeepers or food-service workers in the mess hall. A few work at the mine site itself. Average salaries for mine workers in Alaska are around $70,000, and a handful of shiny new pickups and all-terrain vehicles now zoom through town. The pavement ends quickly, for the moment.
 ''There's more cars here now than you can shake a stick at,'' said Mickey Dungate, 84, who with his wife, Kay, runs a summer fishing lodge. This summer, Mr. Dungate leased one of his buildings to mine employees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jonathan Hobson, left, and Eric Vanlandingham at an exploratory drill for the proposed Pebble Mine site, which is believed to be rich in gold and copper.
 Gernot Wober, left in photo at left, and John Shively are part of the mining consortium. Fishermen who oppose the mine, in photo at right, Charles Nolay, left, and Steven Shade. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Mad details Site of proposed Pebble Mine in Alaska. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (87%); GOLD MINING (78%); COPPER MINING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); EXECUTIVES (55%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (60%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (60%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (60%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



549 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Broke? Talk It Out

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
YOU might not think there is a bright side to this gloomy economy, but I have spotted one.
 People are talking about money. Not griping (we're all fed up with that), or bragging (that's so 2006). But lately I've been hearing, and often joining in, actual interpersonal communications of a financial nature. 
 This couldn't have happened a year ago. As it becomes clear not only that many people are in the same boat -- and the boat is much bigger than anyone thought -- topics that once seemed off-limits, embarrassing or crass are getting air time. 
 A few weeks ago, our neighbors boldly asked how much our fuel company was charging us for oil. We told them. Last week, while on a family vacation, my sister-in-law asked whether I had a set budget for clothing (good question! I should, but I don't).
 And recently a friend opened up about his recent and fabulous home renovation -- and his fear that his house was now worth more than the market would bear. I sympathized, as I have my own real estate concerns.
 This could be misery looking for a few pals, but there's more to it than that. People seem to be confused about the present, uneasy about the future and a bit more willing to open up to family, friends, neighbors or even co-workers about money.
 When I talked to Nate Orgain, an anesthesiology resident in Salt Lake City, about why people might be more frank about their finances, he pointed to the credit crisis as one cause. 
 ''It's hard to get your bearings financially, especially when you realize that what we all previously thought were solid, brick-and-mortar institutions were in fact playing fast and loose with billions of dollars,'' he said. ''So we're turning to each other.''
 Dr. Orgain, who is married with two children, is renting now, but would like to buy a house. He and his wife aren't sure how exactly they will take this step, but as with many money questions he finds himself tapping friends and colleagues -- and he sees others doing the same. 
 At work in particular, he said, younger staff members seek their supervisors' advice. ''We'll sit around the cafeteria and ask them, 'What do you do? What is your financial plan?' ''
 IN some cases, however, traditional financial advice is exactly what people want, and these days many people are a lot bolder about asking for help, said Suzanna de Baca, president of Private Capital Solutions Group, a financial advisory company in Des Moines. 
 Ms. de Baca describes the money culture of the Midwest as ''very conservative and very private.'' Yet, she said, ''When I'm out socially, people are a lot more likely to ask me questions about money, the same way you'd ask a doctor you happened to meet at a party about your cold. 
 ''A woman stopped me in the supermarket the other day to ask me, 'How long is this going to last? Are we in a depression?' ''
 Ms. de Baca doesn't mind the questions. In many ways, she said, we're overdue for a bit of financial candor. I agree. How many of us would live our lives differently if mortgages and credit cards were discussed as freely as car repairs and risotto recipes?
 Karen Lawrence, who runs her own public relations business in Staunton, Va., believes that at the least, being open about one's personal financial calculations exposes other people to options they might not have otherwise considered. 
 In her area, for example, Ms. Lawrence has noticed a move toward what you might call living locally. First, she said, ''people started admitting they were feeling squeezed,'' saying that they didn't want to incur the expense of driving from Staunton to Charlottesville, Va., a popular destination about 30 minutes away.
 Then, she said, local businesses started picking up. ''I think when people started being more honest about the fact that couldn't afford the long trips or the big vacation, and said, 'Let's go downtown, let's put our energy here,' there was a shift.''
 Of course, re-establishing America's sense of economic security will require more profound changes than just being able to talk about money. But change, as they say, starts at home, maybe even with phrases like, ''So, I was trying to decipher my 401(k) statement the other day.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); CONSERVATISM (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (74%) UTAH, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



550 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: State's Goal, Pre-K for All, Is Still Far Off

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
More than 10 years after New York's political and education leaders promised to work toward providing access to pre-kindergarten classes to every 4-year-old across the state, more than a third of the 677 local school districts have no such programs. Last year, fewer than 91,000 children attended state-financed pre-kindergarten classes -- 38 percent of the state's 4-year-olds.
 The early promise of universal pre-kindergarten programs was undermined by state budget problems, especially after 9/11, and local districts were never required to offer them. But even as funding dedicated to pre-kindergarten has more than doubled over the last three years, hundreds of mainly suburban and rural districts have rejected the state money, with many saying they would have to cut other things or raise taxes to establish the programs. 
 Last year, local districts passed up $67.5 million of the $438 million the state set aside for pre-K. 
 ''Universal pre-K is an idea that looks good on paper, but it doesn't work for a district of this size,'' said Superintendent Edward Ehmann of the Smithtown school district on Long Island, which turned down $459,000 in state aid because, he said, it would cover only a quarter of the cost of providing pre-kindergarten to 750 children.
 The not-so-universal state of pre-kindergarten has frustrated many parents and children's advocates, who cite studies showing that access to early education classes can be critical in smoothing out socioeconomic differences in vocabulary and development and in preparing children for the demands of schoolwork. 
 Steven Barnett, a professor of education, economics and policy at the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University, said pre-kindergarten has become ''the new kindergarten.'' The classes improve children's cognitive abilities and promote social and emotional development, Dr. Barnett said, leading to higher test scores and graduation rates in later years.
 Few school administrators dispute the benefits of pre-kindergarten, but many say it is impractical to provide it to every child. 
 In Smithtown, for example, Mr. Ehmann said that even if his district could find the money, it would have to contract with community groups to provide pre-K classes because there is no room in the schools, which would mean hiring administrators to oversee those locations, adding costs. 
 Instead, the district has, for the past two years, distributed its kindergarten curriculum to private preschools as a way to encourage more consistency. In nearby Uniondale, district officials also said they have no place in their overcrowded buildings to put pre-kindergarten.
 In Westchester County, the affluent Bronxville district decided not to pursue a pre-kindergarten program for about 100 students because, as Superintendent David Quattrone put it, ''the vast majority of parents prefer to use the private programs in our community.'' He also cited financial and space constraints.
 Overall, state officials said, 230 districts will start the school year with no state-financed pre-kindergarten.
 ''I'm disappointed by the slow progress, especially since over the last 10 years, there's been even more evidence of how useful universal pre-K is in closing the achievement gap,'' said Maria DeWald, president of the New York State Congress of Parents and Teachers, which has long advocated for universal pre-kindergarten.
 Pre-kindergarten, like kindergarten before it, was long considered a private matter and very much optional -- it was known as nursery school and basically amounted to structured play. Kindergarten, of course, is now a required offering for public schools in 43 states, although attendance is optional in many of those places, according to the Education Commission of the States, which advises governors and state legislators. In New York, every district offers kindergarten, though the state does not require it, with a majority, 603 districts, providing full-day programs.
 While many places across the country have long offered scattershot preschool programs for children with special needs or those from disadvantaged backgrounds, the push for universal pre-K began along with the broader educational accountability movement in the mid-1990s. 
 In 1997, New York became one of the first states to pass legislation calling for classes for all 4-year-olds, but planned to finance it in stages. 
 Since then, eight states and the District of Columbia have adopted universal pre-kindergarten. One of the most successful efforts has been in Florida, where state education officials have enrolled 145,000 4-year-olds, or more than 60 percent of that age group, since 2006. In Oklahoma, more than 70 percent of 4-year-olds attend publicly funded preschools in the state's 538 districts. 
 New York State began by funding universal pre-kindergarten in the five largest cities -- New York, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Yonkers -- and 60 other districts with $67.4 million in 1998 and planned to cover all students in all districts within five years. But legislators said that the program stalled after Gov. George E. Pataki backed away from an agreement to fully finance universal pre-kindergarten.
 ''Unfortunately, Governor Pataki decided to stunt its growth early on in the process,'' said the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, who sponsored the universal pre-kindergarten legislation. 
 David Catalfamo, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said that the governor always included money for pre-kindergarten in his proposed budget and that the legislators could have acted to increase it. After growing to $225 million for the 2000-1 school year, pre-K funding dropped to $163 million in 2001-2, then was flat at $205 million for the next four years.
 It got a boost in 2007 when Gov. Eliot Spitzer appointed a Children's Cabinet made up of his executive staff and commissioners of state agencies to promote pre-K, along with children's health insurance. The group pushed successfully for a change in regulations to give school districts more flexibility to start new pre-kindergarten programs in midyear. Albany leaders also expanded funding, to $438 million in 2007-8, and to $452 million this year. Any pre-K money not spent by districts is returned to the state's general fund.
 This fall, New York City will enroll more than 54,000 students in pre-K classes, paid for with $211.9 million in state aid and an additional $37.5 million in local taxes. In addition, the city will spend $5 million in discretionary state funds on pre-kindergarten.
 Having missed the initial goal of providing access to pre-kindergarten to all New Yorkers by 2002 -- when 189 districts offered programs, with 58,332 children, or 24 percent of those eligible, enrolled -- Albany leaders now say that universal pre-kindergarten will be statewide by 2011. That, of course, will depend on funding -- and cooperation from districts.
 Toward that end, state education officials have been meeting with superintendents, promoting partnerships between districts and community organizations, and trying to educate parents about pre-kindergarten's benefits. But Cynthia Gallagher, who oversees the state's pre-kindergarten initiative, acknowledged that, ''In the end, it's the voters of a school district who decide.'' 
 The challenge of getting there can be seen in the Fairport district, southeast of Rochester on the Erie Canal. Jon Hunter, Fairport's superintendent, said school officials and parents in this 7,000-student district once rejected the idea of universal pre-kindergarten, viewing it as nothing more than a remedial program when most of their students were already well prepared.
 But he said that over the past few years many people have come to believe that pre-kindergarten could ''support and enrich'' the several hundred 4-year-olds in the district each year -- only now there are other barriers to starting such a program. The district rejected its state allocation of $221,400 this year, and has no classes for 4-year-olds.
 ''We're struggling with where we're going to go with pre-K,'' Dr. Hunter said. ''We recognize it can be part of our mission, but we're also struggling with tough economic times, tough budgets and cramped buildings.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Some Pre-K Dollars Go Unclaimed: Hundreds of New York school districts have not applied for state grants for early childhood programs. Many are in the suburbs.(Source: State Education Department) Chart details School districts statewide eligible for pre-kindergarten aid. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PARENTS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



551 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: DESPITE PULLOUT, RUSSIA ENVISIONS LONG-TERM SHIFT

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; C. J. Chivers contributed reporting from Karaleti, Georgia, and Andrew E. Kramer from Tbilisi.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- As the Russian Army withdrew most of its forces from Georgia, it was becoming ever more clear on Friday that Moscow had no intention of restoring what once was -- either on the ground or diplomatically.
The West wants a return to early August, before an obscure territorial dispute on the fringes of the old Soviet empire erupted into an international crisis. But Russia's forces are digging in and seizing ribbons of Georgian land that abut two breakaway enclaves allied with Moscow, effectively extending its zone of influence.
At the same time, the Kremlin is nearing formal recognition of the independence of the enclaves, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, possibly as early as next week.
These moves indicate that despite the French-brokered cease-fire framework that Russia accepted, it is striving to maintain considerable economic and military pressure on Georgia, a close ally of the United States. The ultimate goal, it seems, is the ouster of its president, Mikheil Saakashvili, who is detested by the Russian leadership, and the installation of a government that it considers less hostile. 
The Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, promised early this week that most Russian troops would be withdrawn by Friday, and throughout the day, soldiers were observed heading north toward the two enclaves. Russian tanks swept along Georgia's main roadways, abandoning an important military camp and checkpoints outside the central city of Gori.
By the night, the defense minister, Anatoly E. Serdyukov, had declared the pullback completed, saying that ''the Russian side has fulfilled'' the cease-fire.
Even so, Russian soldiers maintained a series of armed checkpoints along Georgia's main highway, leaving the Kremlin with the ability to cut off trade and traffic across the country and to isolate the capital, Tbilisi, from much of the nation.
It also continued to occupy areas near a military base in Senaki, the western city of Zugdidi and the vital port of Poti on the Black Sea. Russian officials say 500 soldiers they refer to as peacekeepers will remain in Georgia near South Ossetia.
In Washington on Friday, a State Department spokesman, Robert Wood, said that by establishing the buffer zones, the Russians ''failed to live up to their obligations under the cease-fire agreement.'' France expressed similar objections.
In spurning a complete pullback, the Kremlin is sending a message that it has no regrets about marching into its much smaller neighbor, even if the conflict has stirred the sharpest tensions between Moscow and Washington since the end of the cold war.
Having grown increasingly angry over NATO expansion into Eastern Europe, the Russians believe that they have finally and justly struck back, according to analysts and officials in Moscow.
The Russian leadership has also expressed more confidence in recent days that it is getting across its view that it attacked Georgia two weeks ago only in response to an unprovoked assault by the Georgian military on civilians in South Ossetia.
Alexei Pankin, a columnist for the Russian state news agency, said on Friday that the Kremlin had undoubtedly ordered tanks into Georgia because it wanted to somehow topple Mr. Saakashvili. While it did not immediately achieve that aim, it is now in a better position to do so than it was before the conflict.
''Their feeling now is, you made gains and you should keep them,'' Mr. Pankin said. ''After what happened, their successes, they are not really feeling constrained now.''
The Kremlin has signaled its intention to remove Mr. Saakashvili in part by trying to isolate him. The Russian Foreign Ministry, which has often suggested that Mr. Saakashvili is unstable, said this week that it would not negotiate directly with him ''for reasons absolutely understandable to any sensible person.''
Still, dangers loom for the Kremlin, especially if it falls victim to its historical tendency to overreach. For now, the West has shied from severe steps to punish Russia, such as ousting it from the Group of 8. But should Russia be perceived in the coming weeks as actively trying to overthrow Mr. Saakashvili or retake parts of the country, it could set off new penalties that might threaten its robust economic revival.
Already, Russia's financial markets have evinced concern about that, with the stock market falling since the conflict began and capital flowing out of the country at a fast pace.
In Tbilisi on Friday night, Mr. Saakashvili spoke live on national television, appearing grim and subdued. He warned Georgians to expect more problems, and he pledged to offer compensation to families who had lost relatives in the fighting.
Despite all Georgia's setbacks in the last two weeks, Mr. Saakashvili vowed anew to restore Georgia's territorial integrity -- restating an ambition that had helped propel Georgia into a clash with its much more powerful neighbor to the north.
''Georgia has no extra territories to give to others,'' he said.
The war started late on Aug. 7 when Mr. Saakashvili ordered his small, American-trained military to attack and seize Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia, a tiny mountainous region on the southern face of the Caucasus Ridge. The region has been out of Georgia's control, and under Russian support, since a brief war in the 1990s.
Mr. Saakashvili's order, which he has said was necessary to prevent a Russian assault, turned into a disaster that threatened the Georgian state. Russian planes, rockets and artillery pounded Georgian positions, while armored units routed Georgian forces and swept into several principal cities.
Moreover, a wide plain of Georgian villages was largely depopulated and is now behind a new administrative border defended by Russian troops. Tbilisi was crowded on Friday with refugees, many subsisting in squalid conditions.
Even with many of the Russian troops withdrawn by Friday night, fears lingered that soldiers would try to conduct checks on the main east-west highway, creating economic stress on, or even a blockade of, Tbilisi and much of the rest of the country. Under the cease-fire accord, Russian forces are prohibited from blocking traffic, though they have done so this week.
''One of the Russian war goals was to bring down this government, and by economic pressure they hope to do that,'' a senior NATO official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the situation with reporters. ''Bringing down the government was more likely their goal than conquering Tbilisi.''
In response, NATO foreign ministers have sent civil emergency planning teams to help Georgia rebuild civilian infrastructure and restore its economy.
Georgia's prime minister, Lado Gurgenidze, played down the risk of an extended blockade of Tbilisi. ''There's been no hoarding, no panic buying, apart from a few incidents,'' Mr. Gurgenidze said.
He said the capital had stocks of gasoline and flour, though he declined to say how long they were expected to last.
At stores in Tbilisi, food prices have risen sharply since the conflict began and did not drop on Friday, even with the partial pullout. At one fruit stand, the price for peaches had risen by 40 percent, and for apples by 100 percent.
''We are afraid -- most people are stocking up, it's not just me,'' said Lyuda Marishvili, an elderly woman who was shopping at a market in the capital. ''The roads are closed. There will be no products.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A child in a refugee camp in Tbilisi, Georgia, for those displaced by the fighting in South Ossetia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEB GARANICH/REUTERS)(A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



552 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; HAMPTONS JOURNAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: A 'Rich People's Woodstock,' With More Drums

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

DATELINE: SAGAPONACK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The mystery began on the first Monday night of August, when as many as 1,500 people, according to the local police, descended on Sagg Main Beach here to dance to the polyrhythmic beats of a Brazilian drumming circle.
 ''We've always had a bit of a following -- like 50 people or so, a nice little bunch of regulars,'' said Richie Siegler, the founder of a local drumming school called Escola de Samba Boom, and the leader of the circle that has played most summer Mondays for the past five years.
 As the puzzled drummers drummed and the dancers danced, according to The East Hampton Star, a local newspaper, a police officer encountered several women frustrated by the padlock on the public bathroom shed and decided to follow them back to the beach. Unable to determine who was in charge, the officer shut down the party, citing the overflow of cars parked on access roads as a safety hazard. 
 ''There were no arrests, but with a group of that size, somebody should at least notify the town so we know what's going on,'' Officer Maureen Drew of the Southampton Police Department explained later in an interview. ''It's tricky, because you have a situation where you don't technically have anybody who's organizing the situation.'' 
 Mr. Siegler did not apply for a permit, but did inform officers that he planned to continue with the weekly ritual.
 The next week, he and his merry band of drummers braced for a showdown -- ''I was willing to get arrested for my cause,'' he said -- but the crowd was thinner, perhaps 500, and the police were prepared with what Mr. Siegler described as ''a velvet-rope kind of setup for parking.'' 
 Again this Monday, once the beach parking lot filled, officers directed cars in an orderly procession to the side of Sagg Main Road, and hundreds of revelers poured up a hillock, past the bushes and onto the oceanfront, spreading across the sand as the setting sun glowed orange behind the dunes. 
 There were young families, surf rats, and groups of couples with picnic blankets. Golden retrievers, glow sticks, Belgian casuals and patch madras.
 Mr. Siegler, with a snare drum strapped to his waist and a whistle in his mouth, orchestrated about 40 musicians (nearly half of whom, he said, he'd never seen before) in a series of extended jams that mostly began slowly, worked their way to a frenzied groove, then gradually slowed back down to a primitive and glacial tattoo.
 They played big drums, small drums, ganzas, tambourines, and maracas. A belly dancer wearing a bikini, armature, feathers and a live snake coiled around her shoulders attracted a great deal of attention.
 Vanessa von Bismarck, a public-relations executive in Manhattan and the daughter of Prince and Princess von Bismarck of Germany, said she'd been drawn this week by ''word of mouth.''
 ''This is kind of amazing,'' Ms. Bismarck said. ''I have no idea who these people are.'' 
 ''It's like a rich people's Woodstock,'' said her husband, Maximilian Weiner.
 Ms. Bismarck recognized a friend, Countess LuAnn de Lesseps, the self-described ''television personality'' who plays herself on the reality show ''The Real Housewives of New York City.'' Mr. Weiner pointed toward the centermost scrum of dancers and said, 'I'll bet you anything there's a wet dog in there. Somebody's definitely got a wet dog around.''
 ''It's a very peculiar smell they have,'' his wife agreed.
 Mr. Siegler, who has lived on Shelter Island for 25 years, said he grew up in a musical family in Greenwich Village and started the drumming school in 2002. He said the Monday night sessions, held at the Hayground School in Bridgehampton during the off season, are open to the public. 
 ''We teach people for free,'' he said. ''Occasionally we get a call to perform at some A-list party, and then we sock it to them.''
 Mr. Siegler ventured that the circle's sudden popularity might have something to do with the recession. ''It's just about the only free thing out here,'' he said. 
 Giuliana Torre, who owns the Juicy Naam, a juice bar in East Hampton, said: ''You know what I think? It's a movement toward group consciousness. It's in response to all the division and divisiveness in the world.''
 A friend of hers, who said he goes by the name Sao and is a shamanic astrologer in Sedona, Ariz., agreed. ''Right now, in 2008, we're at the end of the age of fear, greed, and selfishness,'' he said. ''In the next 16-year window we're about to see a total flipping of the ages -- from greed to enlightenment. So, basically, that's what this is part of.''
 When it got dark and Mr. Siegler left, a handful of musicians began an impromptu, after-hours session. They were joined by the belly dancer, Heather Tankersley, who was described by her manager, Amanda Belloni, as ''the only serpent-charmer-slash-belly-dancer in the Hamptons.''
 ''It's building her brand,'' Ms. Belloni said. ''You know what this is for her? Rehearsal. It's rehearsal for all the other events she performs at: parties, fashion shows.'' 
 Ms. Belloni, a longtime drum circle attendee, had her own explanation for its sudden spike in popularity.
 ''Very simple,'' she explained. ''Two weeks ago was my birthday, so I sent an e-mail blast to everybody I know to come out here. I called the radio station and told them to give it a shout-out. I wanted a big crowd to celebrate with me. Instant party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A drumming circle on Sagg Main Beach in Sagaponack on Aug. 4 drew 1,500 people. The event has become a Monday ritual.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY MANIERE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); BEACHES (78%); DANCERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); DOGS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); MUSIC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



553 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: A Mission Goes Off Course

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Whenever the mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, find themselves in a tough spot -- and boy, are they in a tough spot now! -- they always seem to find a way to blame their problems on ''the mission.'' ''We exist to expand affordable housing,'' says Fannie Mae on its Web site, and although it also lists its other mission -- providing liquidity for the American housing market -- it is the former that has long been the companies' trump card.
 That mission of creating affordable housing is the reason that Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, could testify, year after year, that Fannie and Freddie had become so large, and took so much risk, that they could one day damage the nation's financial system -- only to be utterly ignored by the same members of Congress who otherwise hung on his every word. 
 The mission is why Representative Barney Frank, the powerful, and usually clear-eyed, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, will defend Fannie and Freddie even now, when their misdeeds are so clear. The mission is why the two companies were able to run roughshod over their regulator for years, and why the Bush administration was unable to rein them in, even after an accounting scandal. 
 The mission is why their two chief executives, Daniel Mudd at Fannie and Richard Syron at Freddie, could take home a combined $30 million last year, while presiding over one of the great financial disasters of all time, posting billions of dollars in losses with no end in sight. 
 Thus it was that a few weeks ago, Mr. Syron gave an interview to The Boston Globe that was at once astonishing and completely predictable. The day before, my colleague, Charles Duhigg, had written a devastating story in The New York Times, describing how Mr. Syron, shortly after becoming the C.E.O. of Freddie Mac in 2004, had been warned by David A. Andrukonis, then the company's risk officer, that that Freddie Mac was buying loans that ''would likely pose an enormous financial and reputational risk to the company and the country.''
 The article continued: ''Mr. Syron was also warned that the firm needed to expand its capital cushion, but instead its safety net shrank. Mr. Syron was told to slow the firm's mortgage purchases. Instead, they accelerated.''
 And what was Mr. Syron's response the next day in The Globe? You guessed it: ''If you're going to take aid to low-income families seriously, then you're going to make riskier loans,'' he said. ''We have goals to meet.'' 
 As for the claims made by Mr. Andrukonis to The Times, Mr. Syron said that Mr. Andrukonis had ''disagreed'' with the chief executive's decision to reorient Freddie Mac ''towards the housing mission.'' The major source of friction between the two men, he strongly implied, was that Mr. Andrukonis just didn't care enough about affordable housing. 
 And if you believe that one ... 
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac occupy a complicated place in the nation's financial system, but the more you understand what they did, the angrier it should make you -- especially since it's likely that you, the taxpayer, will wind up having to pay for their sins. As the two companies continue to post mammoth, multibillion-dollar losses, the Treasury Department is drawing up contingency bailout plans, which will surely include the assumption of hundreds of billions of dollars in potential liabilities. 
 That would be hard enough to swallow if the cause had, in fact, been the companies' willingness to finance low-interest loans to working-class home buyers. But the real reason was greed. You know that statistic you always hear about how half the nation's $12 trillion in mortgages is ''touched'' by Fannie or Freddie? The implication, of course, is that the two companies are the very heart and soul of the nation's housing market. But the majority of the mortgages in question are ones that are held by Fannie and Freddie as part of their gigantic portfolio of mortgage-backed securities -- the same kind of complex derivatives that brought down Bear Stearns and have caused untold pain to most of the big Wall Street firms.
 Holding those securities has nothing to do with ''the mission.'' What Fannie and Freddie are supposed to do -- their real mission, if you will -- is to create liquidity in the housing market. (The affordable housing mission was added to their charters much later.) They do this primarily by buying mortgages from banks, insuring them, and creating mortgage-backed securities that they then sell to Wall Street. With a long-term mortgage, for instance, Wall Street takes on the interest rate risk, but doesn't have to worry about the risk that homeowners will stop paying their loans. Fannie and Freddie assume that risk. That arrangement gives the banks more capital to make yet more housing loans, and supposedly frees them to continue loaning even when the economy takes a dip.
 The problem is that while the two companies are still called government-sponsored entities, they are also publicly traded corporations. And for much of the last two decades, they have been hell-bent on growth, the clear goal being to push up their stock prices. ''Wrapping'' mortgages for banks -- you can make money doing that, but you can't double your earnings every five years, which was the stated goal of the former Fannie Mae chief executive, Franklin Raines. 
 Ah, but if you buy up the mortgage-backed securities yourself, taking on the interest rate risk as well as the credit risk -- all the while using your government-sponsored pedigree to borrow at lower rates than your Wall Street competitors -- well, then you've got a spectacular growth business. And if you're the C.E.O., with lots of stock options and bonuses based on stock price and profits -- as Mr. Raines was -- you can put tens of millions of dollars in your pocket, too. 
 The mission? It was little more than a fig leaf that the companies trotted out whenever somebody pointed out the obvious: that its growing portfolio of mortgage-backed securities was dangerous. (Needless to say, Fannie and Freddie insist that affordable housing is their real raison d'etre, and object to such characterizations.)
 Then, in 2003, came the accounting scandal. Fannie Mae had to restate $9 billion in earnings, and Mr. Raines, who had made $90 million during his six years as chief executive, lost his job, replaced by Mr. Mudd, who had been his No. 2. (Mr. Raines never had to give back any of the money, though.) Freddie Mac, its smaller cousin, had to restate about $5 billion in earnings. Its chief was also booted in favor of Mr. Syron, the former executive chairman of the Thermo Electron Corporation. The accounting scandal emboldened their formerly tepid regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, to crack down on the interest rate risk they were taking with their ballooning portfolios.
 So how did Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron respond? Did they decide to pull back, take less risk and act as a stabilizing force in the market? Not even close. Like their predecessors, Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron put their investors -- and their bonuses -- first, and their mission a distant second.
 As we are now learning, in 2005 and 2006, the two men plunged their companies headfirst into subprime mortgages -- and continued doing so even as the subprime market began to implode. According to Fannie Mae documents obtained by The Washington Post, Mr. Mudd described getting into subprime mortgages as taking a step ''towards optimizing our business.'' Mr. Syron did the same -- as Mr. Duhigg's article in The Times made clear. The two companies also got heavily into underwriting so-called Alt-A mortgages, which, as the Post article put it, are ''often made with no verification of the borrower's income.''
 These are the loans that Mr. Syron is now claiming were made to comply with ''the mission.'' But the mission had nothing to do with it. Fannie and Freddie got involved with subprime mortgages for the same reason as everyone else on Wall Street: they offered higher rates of return than ordinary mortgages. Why? Because they were riskier. As we now all know.
 You want to know the truth about ''the mission?'' The country doesn't even need Fannie and Freddie to help with affordable housing. Several laws mandate that banks reinvest in the communities in which they operate -- and that mandate has come to be defined largely as making loans available for affordable housing. Several executives involved in community-based banking told me that Fannie and Freddie actually refused to buy those mortgages -- they weren't profitable enough. (A spokeswoman for Freddie Mac denies this.) 
 With any luck, once we get through this crisis, the country can figure out a better way to provide both liquidity and stability for the housing market without being so reliant on Fannie and Freddie. But for now, given the paralysis in every other sector of the market, the country badly needs Fannie and Freddie to do what they are chartered to do: ''wrap'' loans so that banks will keep writing mortgages. 
 That's why Congress recently passed a law that allows Fannie and Freddie to insure mortgages up to nearly $625,500, from the previous limit of $417,000. That's also why the Treasury is now taking pains to ensure the marketplace that the companies will not go bust, even if it means a government takeover. If Fannie and Freddie were to file for bankruptcy -- the fate, frankly, they deserve -- the mortgage market (not to mention the entire financial system, just as Mr. Greenspan once predicted) would quite likely freeze up completely. In the midst of the worst housing crisis since the Great Depression, that would be disastrous. 
 All right, so be it, we'll keep them alive for the greater good of the country, moral hazard be damned. But let's at least acknowledge that there is something deeply flawed with an arrangement in which the shareholders and executives reap the profits in good times, while the government and the taxpayers absorb the losses when things go awry. At the very least, the companies should stop using the mission as an excuse, and acknowledge they did the wrong things for the wrong reason.
 Their only mission has been to get rich, and it has hurt us all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barney Frank leads the House Financial Services Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
Daniel Mudd, chief of Fannie Mae, left, and Richard Syron, then head of Freddie Mac, testified before Congress last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); ACCOUNTING (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WEB SITES (56%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%); BARNEY FRANK (67%); DANIEL H MUDD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



554 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Lender Thrives With Personal Touch

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: WARSAW 

 BODY:
When Ewa Rachwal visits one of her 150 customers at home, she is greeted more like a long-lost friend than someone who comes to collect a weekly interest payment for a loan.
 Ms. Rachwal is one of more than 28,000 self-employed agents for a British company, International Personal Finance, that serves as a lender to people of modest means in Central and Eastern Europe with little or no access to conventional banks. Unlike most major financial institutions, the company is thriving amid global credit market turmoil that has left many lenders with giant losses and write-downs.
 While debt may be an unwelcome concept in the United States and Western Europe these days, it looks more attractive to people in Eastern Europe and elsewhere who are just getting a foothold in the consumer economy and are aiming for a better life.
 International Personal Finance, or I.P.F., has figured out a means to tap that market the old-fashioned way, by extending credit face to face and then keeping a personal eye on its customers. Its agents visit people in their homes to better judge their creditworthiness before offering small cash loans that average about $500 for anything from washing machine repairs to family vacations. 
 Interest payments of about 20 percent attracted criticism from consumer groups and regulators, but the company insists such rates are necessary to pay for the home service and cover its risk. I.P.F.'s profit increased 40 percent this year and its shares, traded on the London Stock Exchange, have risen 52 percent at a time when the values of many American and West European banks are declining.
 Christopher Rodrigues, the company's executive chairman, calls I.P.F. the Avon of the financial services industry, a reference to the global direct seller of beauty products.
 Mr. Rodrigues acknowledged that the company was not immune to the economic woes that beset other banking institutions, but its avoidance of complex financial models and its close contact with its 1.94 million customers allowed it to minimize its risk. While its write-down charges, at 22 percent of revenue, are substantial, it monitors its loans carefully and avoids surprises from huge, unexpected losses.
 Balazs Pap, head of I.P.F. in Poland, said the business approach went beyond the computer-based credit checks that larger banks relied on. If ''someone tells you over the phone they have one child,'' he said, ''and then you walk into the house and see three pairs of shoes in different sizes,'' the agent knows something is wrong.
 Ms. Rachwal, who has been offering loans for I.P.F. for the last eight years, said that when she visited a customer for the first time, she took a close look at the apartment and tried to find out as much as she could beyond the routine questions about the level of income and whether the household had a telephone.
 Every agent is responsible for a small area of the city spanning no more than one square mile, or 2.6 square kilometers, and is usually well known to the community. ''People greet me on the streets, I know their children and families,'' Ms. Rachwal said. ''Even family members don't visit them as often as I do.''
 Economic growth in Central and Eastern Europe has also helped the company thrive.
 Unlike Western Europe, where growth started to slow drastically this year and some countries are likely to fall into recession, Eastern European economies are expected to maintain an average growth rate of 4 percent this year, said Neil Shearing, an economist at Capital Economics in London.
 That is good news for I.P.F., which also operates in the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Mexico and plans to expand into Russia, Ukraine and India. As economies grow, customers earn more and are willing and able to borrow larger amounts.
 But even in Eastern Europe inflation has started to rise and there would be a risk for I.P.F.'s business if unemployment rose as well. The company said it was ready if the economies began to suffer.
 ''It would require an immediate reaction from us,'' Mr. Pap, of the Polish unit, said. ''We would need to end the riskier loan agreements and tighten our credit requirements. But because of the direct contact with customers we can see changes in their situation very quickly.''
 The company can trace its roots back to 1880, when Joshua Waddilove, a philanthropist, started to provide credit to British working-class households. The family business sold shares in an initial public offering in 1962 and expanded into other banking products, including credit cards.
 Last year, the parent company, Provident Financial, spun off its foreign operations as I.P.F.
 Now, profit at I.P.F. is growing rapidly mainly because it operates in a region whose credit markets are still relatively underdeveloped. In Poland, 40 percent of the population has a bank account compared with 90 percent in Britain. Household debt here is 15.6 percent of gross domestic product, compared with 98.7 percent in the United States, 111 percent in Britain and 59.7 percent among the countries sharing the euro.
 For many people in the countries that I.P.F. now serves and hopes to reach in the future, borrowing from a bank might be more affordable, but they do not have that option. Hanna Krzysiewska-Rybinska, a hospital dietician who lives with her husband and his 90-year-old mother, said she needed money quickly to help her son, a taxi driver, buy a new car.
 ''He can't get a loan himself because he and his wife just bought a new house and they already have a big mortgage,'' Ms. Krzysiewska-Rybinska said.
 ''With the bank, I have to pay on a fixed date. Here I have the flexibility to pay later.''
 Ms. Krzysiewska-Rybinska borrowed 5,000 Polish zloty ($2,225) for two years. She now has to repay 95 zloty ($42) each week, which means after two years she will have repaid 9,880 zloty ($4,396). The interest rate is abnormally high, but the loan is well above I.P.F.'s average. I.P.F.'s customers in Poland have an average monthly income of 2,500 zloty ($1,112). 
 Mr. Rodrigues said I.P.F.'s interest rates were not that much higher than a lot of standard credit card rates in the United States and Europe, and they helped cover the risk of extending loans to people with limited credit histories or none at all, and to pay for the network of agents.
 The compensation of its employees is structured in a way to avoid unethical lending, he said. Employees are paid through commissions only, the bulk of which are awarded upon collection of a loan payment and not when a new customer signs up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ewa Rachwal, right, visits a client, Irena Kowalczyk, at her home in Warsaw to make a loan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR MALECKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PERSONAL FINANCE PLC (58%)

TICKER: IPF (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) EUROPE (92%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



555 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Plan For a TV Base Deteriorates

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The grand plan to bring the headquarters for Major League Baseball's new cable television network to East Harlem is unraveling, real estate executives and government officials said on Friday.
 The MLB Network, which is scheduled to begin broadcasting to 50 million subscribers in January, was to be the anchor tenant in what was originally to be a new 21-story office building at 125th Street and Park Avenue, a short distance from Yankee Stadium and players who would be among its guests. 
 Now baseball executives are balking at new lease terms proposed by the developer, Vornado Realty Trust, that would have required them to take additional space and pay $2 million a year more in rent, said real estate executives and government officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they are involved in the negotiations. 
 That has placed the future of the entire building, which was to be the first office tower built on 125th Street in three decades, in jeopardy.
 The MLB Network, in turn, is reconsidering its own plans. It is operating out of temporary quarters in the old MSNBC studios in Secaucus, N.J., not far from Giants Stadium and the National Basketball Association's network studios. The baseball network is now assessing whether to stay in Secaucus, rather than moving to Harlem in a couple of years.
 The $435 million project began running into trouble virtually from the time it was announced in January. Unable to obtain financing or additional tenants, Vornado scaled down its plans earlier this summer, proposing a 14-story building and a new lease with Major League Baseball. 
 Both sides in the negotiations, as well as city and state officials, are hoping to salvage the deal, which they had hailed as an important commercial catalyst for the Harlem renaissance. With or without Major League Baseball, some officials say, the tower may still be built. 
 ''We're working hard to put this back on track as an important project for our city and this area,'' said Steven Roth, Vornado's chairman.
 Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said, ''We remain committed to working with all the parties and seeing development at the site and along 125th Street in the near future.'' 
 Matt Bourne, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, declined to comment, except to say, ''Any negotiations we have are and remain a private matter.''
 During the recent real estate boom, developers have pushed into Harlem with new residential projects and retail malls. Two hotels are in the planning stages, and earlier this year the city rezoned 125th Street for development, with an emphasis on arts and entertainment.
 City and state officials have been eager to help Vornado build the office tower, called Harlem Park, and lure the MLB Network to it, offering a package of tax breaks, tax-free financing and loans. ''This would catalyze 125th Street as a major corridor,'' said Kenneth J. Knuckles, chief executive of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation. ''Over time, certainly when the economy turns around, you could see other kindred uses coming to 125th Street.''
 An earlier version of the plan announced by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2005 called for a different developer to build a $236 million hotel on the site. But that project stalled, and Vornado, one of the city's biggest commercial landlords, took it over last year.
 In January, Vornado said it would build a 21-story luminescent tower of glass cubes, with the MLB Network taking about 20 percent of the space as the anchor tenant. Vornado lobbied hard for an exception to the proposed rezoning that would have forced it to reduce the height of the building. After protests and months of tough negotiations with the City Council, Vornado got its way.
 Work on the tower was supposed to begin in April. In the meantime, the MLB Network leased the old MSNBC studios in Secaucus and began installing high-definition digital broadcasting equipment.
 The city provided Vornado with up to $17 million in mortgage-recording and sales tax breaks for the Harlem project and an additional $5 million in sales tax breaks for the MLB Network. The Empowerment Zone agreed to give the developer a $25 million low-interest loan, tax-exempt financing, a property tax abatement and income tax credits from the state and federal governments. But Vornado, like many other developers in the current credit crisis, was unable to obtain financing, despite plans to invest $127.5 million, or 30 percent of the building's cost.
 To keep the project alive, Vornado offered to sell the land to the MLB Network at cost, or to build it a five-story building for its exclusive use. But it focused on a third option: slicing off about one-third of the building's height, to cut the overall cost of the building by $100 million.
 The developer also sought additional subsidies from the state as well as a higher rent, about $15 more per square foot, or $2 million a year. But that infuriated baseball officials, who thought that Vornado was changing the terms of their agreed-upon deal, according to three people who were involved in the discussions. 
 The MLB Network had also wanted to be in a marquee tower on 125th Street, not a generic office building.
 MLB Network executives, who had expected to move to Harlem in the spring of 2010, now expect to remain in Secaucus, at least until the start of the baseball season in 2011. They are considering whether it makes sense to build expensive high-definition studios first in Secaucus and then in Harlem, real estate executives said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (71%); AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



556 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2440 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 HOLDING STRATEGIC CHECKPOINTS,
 Russia Withdraws From Georgia
 After two weeks of occupation, the Russian Army withdrew the bulk of its forces from Georgia, but its soldiers maintained a series of armed checkpoints along main highways, leaving the Kremlin with the ability to cut off trade and traffic across the country, and to isolate the capital, Tbilisi, from much of the nation. PAGE A7 
 FRENCH LEADER BACKS TROOP VOTE
 After a Taliban ambush this week in which 10 French soldiers were killed and 21 were wounded, Prime Minister Francois Fillon said that he would support a parliamentary vote in September on the troop deployment in Afghanistan, in line with recent constitutional changes. PAGE A9 
 BRITAIN LOSES DATA ABOUT INMATES
 A private consulting company working for Britain's Home Office has lost a memory stick containing names, addresses and expected release dates for all of the 84,000 prisoners serving time in England and Wales. The security breach follows one last fall when two computer discs related to the child benefits program and containing personal details of more than a third of Britain's population went astray in the mail. PAGE A6 
 CHINA GIVES AMERICANS DETENTIONS
 A group of six Americans who were taken into custody on Tuesday as they tried to protest China's rule in Tibet have been given 10-day detentions, a common punishment for Chinese dissidents but one that is rarely handed out to foreigners, who are often deported. But activists from Students for a Free Tibet said that they had no information about four others -- two Americans, a German and a Briton -- who were also detained while protesting. PAGE A9 
 U.S. EXTRADITES ALLEGED TRAFFICKER
 Juan Carlos Ramirez Abadia, 45, a Colombian accused of smuggling billions of dollars of cocaine into the United States, was extradited to New York to face federal charges of homicide, drug trafficking and money laundering. Brazilian authorities apprehended Mr. Abadia in August in Sao Paulo, and sentenced him to 30 years and 5 months in prison for money laundering, corruption and other charges. PAGE A8 
 REPORTS DIFFER ON AFGHAN DEAD
 The Interior Ministry said U.S.-led coalition forces killed 76 Afghan civilians in western Afghanistan, most of them children. The coalition denied killing any civilians, and said that 30 militants had been killed in an air strike in Herat Province and that no further air strikes had been launched in the area. PAGE A9 
 Tainted Food Outbreak in Canada A8 
 Risking Life to Police Tijuana A8 
 Kashmiris Rally Against India A9 
 NATIONAL
 SCIENTISTS ARE GLOOMY
 About a Celebrated Little Fish
 Theirs is a celebrated and controversial legal history, the kind that moves law students to seek a glimpse of them in their natural habitat: a hellishly hot, spring-fed pool of undetermined depth in one of the hottestplaces on earth. But despite efforts to save them, the Devils Hole pupfish, a quick-darting iridescent blue minnow, are veering toward extinction. PAGE A10
 A CONGREGATION AWAITS A HOME
 The Rev. Louis Adams and his congregants in the Holy Ground Baptist Church were just weeks away from occupying their new home in the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans when Hurricane Katrina hit. But it was a second disaster -- this one entirely manmade -- that has them still without a structure. On Religion, by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE A10
 CONCERNS OVER POLAR BEARS
 Ten polar bears were spotted swimming in open water off the northern Alaska coast recently. Such sightings were infrequent until about 2004, but warming temperatures have melted much of the ice platform on which they live and hunt for seals. Biologists are concerned that lengthy open-water swims will exhaust the bears. PAGE A15
 DETROIT MAYOR REJECTS PLEA DEAL
 Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick of Detroit, who is facing a variety of legal problems, turned down a plea deal in which he would have resigned from office in exchange for prosecutors' dropping one of two felony assault charges against him. A spokesman for his defense team said Mr. Kilpatrick rejected the plea deal because it was politically motivated and insincere. He called the case ''weak and frivolous.'' PAGE A15
 OBITUARIES
 WOLFGANG VOGEL, 82
 A lawyer in communist East Germany, he became a wealthy man in the cold war by opening cracks in the Berlin Wall to swap captured spies and release political prisoners. PAGE A17 
 BUDDY HARMAN, 79
 He was a prolific and influential drummer whose rhythmic signature can be heard on thousands of recordings by the likes of Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Patsy Cline and Simon and Garfunkel. He worked most sessions with the celebrated ''A-Team'' of studio musicians who shaped the Nashville Sound of the 1950s and '60s. PAGE A17 
 DR. RALPH D. FEIGEN, 70
 A former president of the Baylor College of Medicine, he edited an authoritative textbook on infectious diseases in children. PAGE A17 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 PRE-KINDERGARTEN PROMISE
 Runs Aground Over Money
 More than 10 years after state political and education leaders promised to work toward providing access to pre-kindergarten classes to every 4-year-old across the state, more than a third of the 677 local school districts have no such programs. Undermined at first by state budget problems, the programs have met resistance in some districts even as state funding has doubled. PAGE B9
 THE CALL OF THE DRUMS
 Richie Siegler says his Brazilian drumming circle has always had 50 or so people for its Monday nights on Sagg Main beach in Sagaponack. But the first Monday in August, as many as 1,500 showed up, to the surprise of Mr. Siegler and the local police. The event has since settled in, a kind of ''a rich people's Woodstock,'' as one attendee put it. PAGE B10 
 HARLEM TV PLAN ERODES
 The plan to bring the headquarters for Major League Baseball's new cable television network to East Harlem is unraveling, real estate executives and government officials said, over lease terms proposed by the developer of the office building that was to house it. PAGE B10 
 BEIJING '08
 IN RACE FOR GOLD, 
 China Looks Unbeatable
 Even without production from its two biggest stars, the hurdler Liu Xiang and the basketball player Yao Ming, China is having its most successful Olympics. With 47 gold medals through Friday night, China led that count by 16 over the United States, and though the gap with the Americans should narrow by Sunday night, when the Olympics conclude, it still looks unbridgeable. PAGE B13 
 A RUNNER TAKES A BIG STEP AHEAD
 With both runners in the same events at the apex of their careers,the personal tug of war between Ethiopia's Tirunesh Dibaba and Meseret Defar, has its limits. After all, there are only so many first places to be had. And the rivalry turned decidedly in Dibaba's favor as she became the first woman to win the 5,000 and 10,000 in the same Summer Games. PAGE B14
 NOW TRY RUNNING ON YOUR HANDS
 Technique counts for swimmers, pole-vaulters, high jumpers, tennis players and gymnasts, among others. But not so much for marathoners, despite what even they may think. One study by a graduate student even looked at how much runners' efficiency changed when they had their arms tied behind their backs. The finding: almost no difference. PAGE B18 
 BUSINESS
 FED CHIEF SUGGESTS
 Inflation Is Moderating
 The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, left, outlined a proposal for overseeing the credit markets and, making only a brief reference to inflation and interest rates, suggested in effect that inflation was moderating and that there was no need to raise the key interest rate that the Fed controls from its present low level. PAGE C3 
 PROBLEMS WITH RESPONSIBILITY
 Charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission that Pax World, a mutual fund company that specialized in socially responsible investments, had taken stakes in companies involved with alcohol, gambling and military contracting may sound like satire. But the situation points to a real problem: the impossibility of finding any companies to invest in that are truly pristine. PAGE C1 
 UNCERTAINTY FOR MORTGAGE GIANTS
 With Treasury officials reviewing various plans to bolster housing giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, anxious investors are telling the companies that they are not willing to buy new shares in them. An executive called it a Catch-22 situation: ''As long as there is uncertainty over Treasury's plan, we can't raise money, and as long as we can't raise money, there's going to be more and more speculation about Treasury's plan.'' PAGE C1 
 RALLY ON WALL STREET
 Expectations that the government will do something -- whatever it is -- to support Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae helped push shares higher on Wall Street, as did a decline in oil prices and speculation that Lehman Brothers might be sold. The rally, which began on Thursday, followed a slump earlier in the week. ''As I look at the markets, we're going up one day, down the other day,'' one analyst said. ''Gold and oil go up and the dollar goes down, and the reverse happens the next day. The swings are pretty big.'' PAGE C6 
 AUTOMAKERS SEEK BIGGER LOANS
 General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler, facing falling sales and a buyer shift to smaller cars, are seeking a significant increase in the $25 billion government-loan program authorized last year to help them build more fuel-efficient vehicles. They say the loans would allow them to overhaul their plants more quickly than they can otherwise afford to do. The carmakers appear to have the backing of both major presidential candidates, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama. PAGE C1 
 VERIZON AND GOOGLE DISCUSS DEAL
 Verizon Wireless and Google are discussing a partnership that would make Google the primary Web search tool on Verizon cellphones. Any partnership between the two is said to be more than a month away. The companies have also discussed a broader partnership that could include joining forces on public policy issues. PAGE C3 Feeling Broke? Let's Talk C2 Getting in the Game C5 
 ARTS
 A POLITICAL MESSAGE
 Delivered in Song
 On Randy Newman's first album of new material in almost a decade, ''Harps and Angels,'' he compares President Bush favorably to some other world leaders, including Hitler and Stalin. Too subtle for you? Well, at an event on Sunday for Democratic National Convention delegates, he'll perform ''Louisiana 1927,'' his 1974 song about the poor government response to a historic flood. PAGE B13 
 EXPLORATIONS IN BLACK
 ''The Black List: Volume 1,'' a documentary scheduled to have its television premiere on HBO on Monday night, uses a series of interviews with people well known and less so to capture the range of what is often called the black experience. The minimalist approach, Felicia R. Lee writes, ''ends up capturing the feeling of watching and listening to people think out loud.'' PAGE B7 
 MAYBE IT'S A LEONARDO DICAPRIO
 When a portrait of a mysterious young woman with an enigmatic smile came up at a Christie's auction in 1998, it was attributed to the German School, early 19th century, and sold for $21,850. Now some are saying -- and others are disputing -- that it's a previously unknown drawing by Leonardo da Vinci. The difference would run into quite a few million dollars. PAGE B7 
 This Weekend
 THE MAGAZINE
 Barack Obama has a lot to say about economics. Unlike, say, Bill Clinton, he wants to raise taxes not to reduce the deficit but to address inequality. But how does he reduce all of those ideas to a bumper sticker? PAGE 28 
 TRAVEL
 As the Duero River cleaves a path through Spain, it passes by the town of Soria. Home to the poet Antonio Machado who, while living in Soria for only five years, was heavily influenced by the town, its surrounding landscape and Leonor, his wife who died there at the age of 18. Page 5
 ARTS & LEISURE
 Woody Allen kept a running log of the filming his new movie, ''Vicky Cristina Barcelona,'' which stars Penelope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Scarlett Johansson. ''Crowds turn out in the streets to watch us work,'' he writes. ''Mercifully they realize I've no time to give autographs, and so they ask only the cast members.'' PAGE 9
 BOOK REVIEW
 Sarah Lyall, a New Yorker by birth and temperament, moved to London and has spent the last decade or so observing the curious behavior of the British. Such is the thrust of her new book, ''The Anglo Files,'' a needling look at her new home. ''Learning about cricket in middle age is like, studying Mandarin, an effort best left to scholars, optimists and members of the Foreign Service,'' she writes. PAGE 10
 Editorial
 BEIJING'S BAD FAITH OLYMPICS
 Beijing got what it wanted out of this globally televised spectacular. It reaped a huge prestige bonanza that it will use to promote its international influence and, we fear, further tighten its grip at home. And it pocketed these gains without offering any concessions in return. A supine International Olympic Committee barely offered a protest. Most world leaders, including President Bush, were nearly as complicit. PAGE A18 
 TAKING ON THE TRAFFICKERS
 The Federal Trafficking and Victims Protection Act was an ambitious attempt to rescue women and children who are smuggled into the country as sex slaves and to step up prosecution of the pimps and traffickers who drive this ghastly business. It has fallen short on both counts. The law is now up for reauthorization, and Congress must strengthen it and extend protections and services to victims born in the United States. PAGE A18 
 MR. JOHNSON STEPS UP
 We have had very little good to say about Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who has refused to stand up to the White House or industry on important issues involving clean air and climate change. Yet he clearly deserves credit for asserting his authority in two clean water cases where the Army Corps of Engineers was on the verge of causing environmental damage. PAGE A18 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Barack Obama is tiptoeing onto the populist path, but he will have to do a lot more to win. PAGE A19 
 GAIL COLLINS
 Exciting times are coming up, people. Democratic convention! Republican convention! And then, on Sept. 10, the start-up of the Large Hadron Collider! But don't worry. The majority of the scientific community believes that the Large Hadron will not lead to the destruction of all life as we know it. PAGE A19 
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 Barack Obama's rhetoric is too lofty to connect with Main Street America. He doesn't need to dumb it down, but he does need to sum it up. PAGE A19 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRISONS (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); EXTRADITION (87%); TALIBAN (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); SENTENCING (74%); DEPORTATION (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); WILDLIFE (68%); SMUGGLING (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); COCAINE (63%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS FILLON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); GEORGIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CHINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); TIBET (92%); FRANCE (90%); WALES (79%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



557 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Have the Olympics Changed China?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 How interesting that Nicholas D. Kristof writes about the rise of China (''China's Rise Goes Beyond Gold Medals,'' column, Aug. 21). Well, if the United States is falling behind, we have only ourselves to blame.
 We virtually gave China the economy it has today, by shipping all of the once ''good'' jobs to China and allowing it to hold the brass ring in the demise of the American economy, because of our crushing deficit. The world of Mao was not to be feared, yet China today is a powerhouse, albeit one that does not respect human rights. 
 So, let's hear it for those vast thinkers of American business who decided to go for the big profits instead of investing in the American worker. Although I feel that the American spirit can still hold its own, it's sad that no one put our country first in a long-range vision for the perpetuation of the American dream. 
 Amy Adler
 Toledo, Ohio, Aug. 21, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Malcontents Need Not Apply,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Aug. 17):
 Imagine my surprise to learn from Mr. Kristof that China is ''no longer a totalitarian state.''
 If he could somehow share this with the many thousands of Tibetan political prisoners, they would be gladdened to hear it.
 Also, please pass the word to the undercover policemen who punched and kicked me on Aug. 10 while I stood near Tiananmen Square holding a banner reading ''Tibetans Are Dying for Freedom.'' Adam Zenko
 San Francisco, Aug. 20, 2008
 The writer is a member of Students for a Free Tibet.
 To the Editor: 
 Although Nicholas D. Kristof in Beijing failed to secure a ''Demonstration Permission Document'' from the Chinese government that would allow him to mount a protest demonstration against the government, he concludes that the law requiring such permission ''implicitly acknowledges the legitimacy of protest.'' 
 I think that it may be more accurate to conclude that the Olympic Games have produced a kind of legal oxymoron: one may not publicly protest the government's policies or actions without the government's approval. 
 Perhaps the Olympics closing ceremonies should include an award of a posthumous gold medal to George Orwell for his enduring vision of the future. Murray Hausknecht
 Long Island City, Queens
 Aug. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Too Old and Frail to Re-educate? Not in China'' (front page, Aug. 21) reports my suggestion that Western political leaders and human rights advocates ''were naive to think that the Olympics would lead to looser restrictions.'' I should add that it is not naive to think that the broad trend toward more openness in China (such as access to Internet sites that have broadened political debates and freedom of debate in the classroom) will continue after the Olympics. 
 There are similar clampdowns in Beijing during the party congresses held every five years, and things revert to ''normal'' shortly thereafter. For the Olympics, there is also substantial popular support for temporary measures that seek to secure a stable social and political environment, but there will be less justification for such measures -- and more support for openness -- after the Olympics. Daniel A. Bell
 Beijing, Aug. 22, 2008
 The writer, a professor of political theory at Tsinghua University, is the author of a book about politics and everyday life in China.
 To the Editor:
 The big question is: Does the International Olympic Committee have the guts to stand up to the host nation, China, and make it forfeit some of its gold medals if it is proved that some of its female gymnasts are under-aged? It is athletic might versus political might in its most intense form.
 Kenneth L. Zimmerman
 Huntington Beach, Calif.
 Aug. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After the deadly accident in Madrid, which caused 153 casualties, Spanish authorities asked the Olympic committee in Bejing to grant a minute of silence before all the competitions in which Spanish athletes were involved, to fly the Spanish flag at half staff, and to have the Spanish athletes wear a black band on their arms. The three requests were denied.
 We know that the Olympics are no longer about sports, that they are a gigantic celebrity show in which companies invest heavily for publicity and television rights. Nothing, apparently, must interfere with the party, no shadow of sadness must distract from those precious advertising seconds. Between the market and 153 dead, the market wins. Simone Santini
 Madrid, Aug. 21, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (86%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); APPROVALS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) XIZANG, CHINA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



558 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: With Oil Demand Down, Prices Are Leveling Off

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Until recently, it seemed that oil prices could move in only one direction: up. But in the last few weeks, the great energy rally that kicked off at the beginning of the decade has shown signs of running out of steam.
 A combination of weak economic growth, slowing demand and shifting perceptions has sent oil prices down 21 percent from last month's peak. Prices have fallen in two of every three trading sessions this month despite hurricanes looming over the Gulf of Mexico's offshore wells, a war in the Caucasus that threatens Caspian supplies and more violence in Nigeria's oil-rich Niger Delta. 
 Only a short while ago, such events would have sent prices still higher. But energy markets, which for years had focused mainly on risks to supplies, have suddenly started paying attention to the impact that high prices are having on consumers. 
 By any measure, oil prices remain high and have become increasingly volatile. Oil is up 19 percent this year and has been stuck above $100 a barrel since early March. 
 On Friday, prices dropped the most since 2004, falling 5 percent to $114.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. A day earlier, they shot up by almost 5 percent.
 ''The market psychology has shifted dramatically,'' said James Crandell, an energy analyst at Lehman Brothers. ''It now clings to the bearish news that was shrugged off early in the year in the pursuit of higher prices.''
 Energy specialists are split on where the market is headed. One camp argues that today's slowdown is temporary and that global oil supplies will remain constrained for years. When growth picks up again, in this view, so will prices. 
 Another camp contends that the current slowdown heralds a lasting shift in consumption patterns as consumers trade their gas guzzlers for smaller cars and businesses find ways to use less energy. 
 Perhaps the biggest question is whether oil prices will drop enough to give consumers some relief, while at the same time remain high enough to call forth new supplies, spur investment in alternative fuels and encourage consumers to use energy more efficiently.
 Oil prices have typically tended to stabilize for long periods -- when adjusted for inflation, prices look like flat lines for years on end. In the 1990s, a period when supplies were plentiful, prices hovered around $20 to $25 a barrel. But it is unclear where today's market will find stability, with forecasts of the near-term price ranging from $90 to $150 a barrel.
 ''The market is still trying to find an equilibrium,'' said Michael Wittner, the global head of oil research at Societe Generale, in London. He predicts oil will bottom at $105 a barrel in September, before rebounding next year to $120 as supplies remain tight. ''Prices need to remain, quote-unquote, high, to continue to limit growth in demand.''
 Oil consumption has been falling in all major industrialized countries, including the United States, Japan, Germany and Britain. Sales of big cars and trucks have plummeted, airlines have trouble filling their seats and drivers are making fewer trips. 
 Gasoline prices, which rose to a nationwide average of $4.11 a gallon last month, now average $3.69 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile group. The prices have forced many consumers to cut their spending on other items.
 Americans drove 12.2 billion fewer miles in June than in June 2007, a drop of 4.7 percent, according to the Department of Transportation. Between November and June, total miles driven dropped by 53.2 billion, the steepest decline registered in a century of data collection, said Doug Hecox, a spokesman for the department. 
 Gasoline demand is declining as a result. Consumption has fallen for 27 consecutive weeks and is down 2.5 percent since the beginning of the year, said Michael McNamara, the vice president of MasterCard Spending Pulse, who tracks retail gasoline sales nationwide.
 ''It's really when prices surpassed the $3- to $3.15-a-gallon threshold that we began to see a steady erosion in demand and consumers changing their behavior,'' Mr. McNamara said. 
 Now that gasoline is falling from its high, however, analysts are wondering whether that trend will turn around. The oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s led to surging prices and sharp cutbacks in consumption. But they were followed by a long period of low energy prices, and as a result, consumption rose again. 
 ''We've been there before, in the late 1970s, and the question is will we be there again if the price crashes,'' said Lee Schipper, a transportation expert and visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Because many developing countries subsidize their energy costs, preventing them from rising too much, falling demand in the industrial world will be more than offset by growth in emerging markets like China and the Middle East. Global oil consumption is still expected to grow by about 1 percent this year, or 790,000 barrels a day, according to the latest forecasts by the International Energy Agency. That is half of the rate of growth in demand during the 1990s.
 ''We still have not seen clear signs of slowing demand in the emerging-market economies; however, we believe these signs are still to come,'' said Mr. Crandell, of Lehman. ''It won't be negative demand, but these countries will slow to a more restrained pace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drivers waited for gas last month in Nanjing, China. Demand for oil has increased in the country, but slowed in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN YONG/REUTERS)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WEATHER (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (52%); GLE (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%); EAST CHINA (59%) CHINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



559 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Driving Less (Unless a Windfall Fills the Tank)

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
High gasoline prices and a weak economy have combined to persuade Americans to do something they rarely do. They are driving less.
 The trend seemed strong as summer began, with reports of highways that were far less crowded than normal on Memorial Day, the first holiday weekend of the season.
 As summer nears an end, the drive-less trend seems to be stronger than ever. In the week that ended Aug. 15, Americans bought 7.8 percent less gasoline than they had in the same week a year earlier, according to MasterCard Spending Pulse. That is the biggest weekly decline of the year. 
 But in between, there seemed to be reason to suspect that the chilling effect of $4 gasoline might be wearing off. The year-over-year declines began to shrink, even as gasoline prices kept rising.
 Could it be that despite the weak economy and high gasoline prices, Americans were unable to part with their cars? Even if fewer Americans than ever were telling pollsters they would take driving vacations, was the lure of the car too great?
 Perhaps that will turn out to be the case, once the economy starts to grow. But it is probably no coincidence that the relapse of conservation came after most of the tax rebate checks -- the centerpiece of the government's economic stimulus package -- had been sent out. 
 The last of the checks was sent during the week ended July 11. Gasoline prices peaked the following week and have fallen since. Without the checks to help pay for filling the tank, Americans seem less eager to do so.
 The week-to-week figures can be volatile because of the weather, so the accompanying chart plots the year-over-year change in gasoline prices over moving four-week periods. The peak four-week decline this year came in the week that ended May 23, when the fall-off was 6.3 percent. It is now back to 4.8 percent, after dipping below 3 percent as the checks were being cashed.
 The Transportation Department has been estimating the number of miles driven by Americans on a monthly basis for more than 20 years. For most of that time, miles driven rose 3 percent or more a year. There were more drivers using more roads and, in many cases, facing longer commutes. 
 As can be seen in the other chart, which shows year-over-year changes in miles over six-month periods, recessions have produced brief periods of slow growth in that figure. Now, however, it is declining.
 In the first six months of 2008, the number of miles driven fell 2.8 percent from a year earlier. In June alone, the figure was down 4.7 percent.
 Those reductions are not spread evenly across the country. The larger declines have been in rural areas, part of which could be caused by a decline in vacationing, or by residents making fewer trips into town. The Transportation Department reports a 3.6 percent decline in travel on rural roads, compared with a 2.4 percent fall for urban roads.
 In eight states, miles driven fell by more than 4 percent in the first half of the year, led by Idaho at 5.9 percent. The others were Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Kentucky, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.
 At the other end of the spectrum, the number of miles driven rose 0.4 percent in Louisiana, a state whose economy benefits from high oil prices. The increase was even greater, at 0.7 percent, in the District of Columbia, an urban center where the government is the principal employer.
 MasterCard Spending Pulse receives complete data on spending using its cards at gasoline stations, and estimates purchases by people paying in other ways. The Transportation Department relies on the states, which have traffic counting devices in many areas.

GRAPHIC: CHART: High gasoline prices and a weak economy are keeping drivers off the road and away from the gas pumps. (Sources: Department of Transportation, MasterCard Spending Pulse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); TRENDS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TAX RELIEF (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



560 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Hit Up for Higher Premiums

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Gasoline prices are well above last year's levels, and people are driving less. That would suggest fewer crashes, and a little relief for the struggling American consumer, in the form of lower auto insurance premiums. 
 But instead, many insurers are raising their rates, sometimes by large amounts. 
 ''On average, they have been asking for a 7 percent increase'' in New York, said Michael Moriarty, the state's deputy insurance superintendent for property and capital markets. 
 North Carolina is pondering an industrywide request for a 13 percent increase. In Illinois, increases have been from 3 percent at State Farm to 13 percent at the United Services Automobile Association, which insures military families.
 For several years, auto rates had been flat and even declining slightly, thanks to new safety features on cars and, in some places, campaigns against drunken driving and insurance fraud. Officials in states flirting with deregulation said increased competition had also kept rates down. 
 Some states, like California, say auto rates are still falling, but nationwide, the trend is upward, according to the Insurance Information Institute. It says premiums have risen at an annualized rate of 1.7 percent so far this year -- a small amount, perhaps, but more than four times the rate of increase for the comparable period in 2007, before gasoline prices spiraled. 
 Only a few states, including New York, have challenged the increases, though several insurance departments say they have stepped up their scrutiny.
 J. Robert Hunter, an insurance consumer advocate with the Consumer Federation of America, is urging state regulators to find out why rates are rising when Americans are driving, in total, billions of miles less than a year ago. 
 ''As Americans drive less because of the price of gas, fewer claims will be filed with insurance companies,'' Mr. Hunter said in a letter to the nation's governors in June. ''Whether this will mean windfall profits for insurers or rate cuts for the consumers is up to governors and state regulators to determine.'' 
 Many state regulators are staying on the sidelines, having taken steps to deregulate auto rates in recent years, in hopes that competition will keep rates low. Some states do not preapprove rates, as New York does, but can take action later if they find an increase was inappropriate.
 ''A lot of them say, 'We don't regulate rates, so we don't care,' '' said Mr. Hunter, citing evidence that rates are lower in states where regulators exert a heavier hand. 
 Insurance companies say that their auto rates are based on their recent experience with claims, and that this year's increases are justified. The reduced driving has not yet shown up in fewer accidents, they say, and meanwhile, other factors are increasing the overall cost of claims.
 ''Higher inflation, and the commodities price boom, increases the cost of steel, plastic, paint, aluminum, copper and everything else used to repair a vehicle,'' Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said. ''It also ultimately drives up medical and legal costs.'' 
 While insurers track accidents closely, their data lags behind real time because it can take months to settle claims. The Department of Transportation has tracked big declines in driving through June, but the insurance institute has data on crash frequency only through March. Whether accidents declined over the summer will not be known until the end of September, Mr. Hartwig said. 
 Still, Mr. Hartwig, an economist, offered data from the 1970s to show what can happen when a spike in gasoline prices prompts Americans to curtail their driving. During the five-month Arab oil embargo of 1973 and '74, car crashes did taper off, he said, but they rose almost immediately after the embargo ended. Meanwhile, the oil price shock spread inflation throughout the economy, driving up the cost of car repairs.
 ''Entrenched inflation can push up costs for many years,'' said Mr. Hartwig, warning that the same thing could happen again. 
 The overall uncertainty about inflation is making it hard to evaluate insurers' projections that their claim costs are about to rise. 
 In general, consumer groups and regulators want auto premiums to be high enough to keep companies from going broke, but low enough to be affordable, because auto insurance is mandatory. They also want rates to reflect insurers' costs -- not factors like drivers' credit scores. 
 When rates began rising late last year, regulators assumed that it was just the normal turning point of a business cycle. 
 ''When prices have been low, there's pressure for them to go up,'' said Jerry Hagins, a spokesman for the Texas Insurance Department, which stopped preapproving auto rates in 2003. Texas is now conducting market research to learn whether rates are rising faster than insurers' costs. The results are expected at the end of this month. 
 Florida's insurance commissioner, Kevin M. McCarty, also said it was too early to tell whether this year's rate increases were out of line. 
 When Mr. McCarty received Mr. Hunter's call for hearings last month, he wrote back to say he did not want to ''overhaul the auto insurance pricing structure in Florida based on short-term developments'' like oil speculation and the ups and downs of the dollar.
 So far, the only state to deliver on Mr. Hunter's call for public hearings is North Carolina, which usually holds them every year. 
 In the state this year, the insurers and their regulators are further apart than ever. The industry is calling for a 13 percent increase, while the staff of the insurance commissioner, Jim Long, says rate cuts of as much as 20 percent are appropriate. (The percentages apply to the maximum rates insurers can charge; in practice, many drivers pay less.)
 Much of the gap results from disagreements over how to handle risky drivers. But the effect of gasoline prices was also debated at the hearing. 
 Allan Schwartz, an actuary from New Jersey who served as an expert witness for the state, said the relationship between gasoline prices, driving habits and crash frequency was well established, but the insurers had failed to take it into account, artificially inflating their requested rate increase by 2 percentage points. 
 Representatives of the insurance industry disagreed. Mr. Long is expected to issue a ruling in September on which way rates can move. 
 New York does not hold public hearings, but its insurance department can still approve or deny requests for auto rate increases. This month, with 48 applications pending, the department decided to challenge one insurer, Geico, on whether it had taken gasoline prices and New Yorkers' reduced driving habits into account when projecting its claims costs. 
 The question prompted Geico to withdraw its proposal for an increase, which would have applied to 75 percent of its car insurance business in New York. Geico is still pursuing a rate increase for the remaining 25 percent, which covers New York's riskiest drivers, but has scaled back the size of the increase, said Mr. Moriarty of the department. A Geico spokeswoman, Rachel N. Veness, declined to discuss the company's next steps, citing ''the highly competitive nature of our business.'' 
 Buoyed at having struck a blow for consumers, New York then sent queries to all of the other companies seeking rate increases, asking about gasoline prices and accident trends. Eric R. Dinallo, the state's insurance superintendent, has warned that New York will not act on their applications until they respond. 
 ''That is not something we've heard about in any other state,'' said Raleigh Floyd, a spokesman for Allstate, which has an application pending in New York. He said Allstate did not plan to withdraw its application and was confident that it could show that an increase was warranted. 
 Matthew Denn, the insurance commissioner in Delaware, said he thought New York's intervention might catch on in other states. 
 ''I think it's a good idea,'' he said, adding that it would be administratively difficult in Delaware, one of many states where regulators now have the authority only to roll back rates deemed excessive after the fact, not to deny increases in advance. ''I'm going to ask our actuaries if there's some way that that can be done.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This month, New York asked auto insurers applying to raise their rates to explain their increases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C2) PHOTOILLUSTRATION (PHOTOILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA)(C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); TRENDS (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); FAMILY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (72%); INSURANCE FRAUD (72%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (57%); UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



561 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: DESPITE PULLOUT, RUSSIA ENVISIONS LONG-TERM SHIFT

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; C. J. Chivers contributed reporting from Karaleti, Georgia, and Andrew E. Kramer from Tbilisi.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- As the Russian Army withdrew most of its forces from Georgia, it was becoming ever more clear on Friday that Moscow had no intention of restoring what once was -- either on the ground or diplomatically.
The West wants a return to early August, before an obscure territorial dispute on the fringes of the old Soviet empire erupted into an international crisis. But Russia's forces are digging in and seizing ribbons of Georgian land that abut two breakaway enclaves allied with Moscow, effectively extending its zone of influence.
At the same time, the Kremlin is nearing formal recognition of the independence of the enclaves, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, possibly as early as next week.
These moves indicate that despite the French-brokered cease-fire framework that Russia accepted, it is striving to maintain considerable economic and military pressure on Georgia, a close ally of the United States. The ultimate goal, it seems, is the ouster of its president, Mikheil Saakashvili, who is detested by the Russian leadership, and the installation of a government that it considers less hostile. 
The Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, promised early this week that most Russian troops would be withdrawn by Friday, and throughout the day, soldiers were observed heading north toward the two enclaves. Russian tanks swept along Georgia's main roadways, abandoning an important military camp and checkpoints outside the central city of Gori.
By the night, the defense minister, Anatoly E. Serdyukov, had declared the pullback completed, saying that ''the Russian side has fulfilled'' the cease-fire.
Even so, Russian soldiers maintained a series of armed checkpoints along Georgia's main highway, leaving the Kremlin with the ability to cut off trade and traffic across the country and to isolate the capital, Tbilisi, from much of the nation.
It also continued to occupy areas near a military base in Senaki, the western city of Zugdidi and the vital port of Poti on the Black Sea. Russian officials say 500 soldiers they refer to as peacekeepers will remain in Georgia near South Ossetia.
In Washington on Friday, a State Department spokesman, Robert Wood, said that by establishing the buffer zones, the Russians ''failed to live up to their obligations under the cease-fire agreement.'' France expressed similar objections.
In spurning a complete pullback, the Kremlin is sending a message that it has no regrets about marching into its much smaller neighbor, even if the conflict has stirred the sharpest tensions between Moscow and Washington since the end of the cold war.
Having grown increasingly angry over NATO expansion into Eastern Europe, the Russians believe that they have finally and justly struck back, according to analysts and officials in Moscow.
The Russian leadership has also expressed more confidence in recent days that it is getting across its view that it attacked Georgia two weeks ago only in response to an unprovoked assault by the Georgian military on civilians in South Ossetia.
Alexei Pankin, a columnist for the Russian state news agency, said on Friday that the Kremlin had undoubtedly ordered tanks into Georgia because it wanted to somehow topple Mr. Saakashvili. While it did not immediately achieve that aim, it is now in a better position to do so than it was before the conflict.
''Their feeling now is, you made gains and you should keep them,'' Mr. Pankin said. ''After what happened, their successes, they are not really feeling constrained now.''
The Kremlin has signaled its intention to remove Mr. Saakashvili in part by trying to isolate him. The Russian Foreign Ministry, which has often suggested that Mr. Saakashvili is unstable, said this week that it would not negotiate directly with him ''for reasons absolutely understandable to any sensible person.''
Still, dangers loom for the Kremlin, especially if it falls victim to its historical tendency to overreach. For now, the West has shied from severe steps to punish Russia, such as ousting it from the Group of 8. But should Russia be perceived in the coming weeks as actively trying to overthrow Mr. Saakashvili or retake parts of the country, it could set off new penalties that might threaten its robust economic revival.
Already, Russia's financial markets have evinced concern about that, with the stock market falling since the conflict began and capital flowing out of the country at a fast pace.
In Tbilisi on Friday night, Mr. Saakashvili spoke live on national television, appearing grim and subdued. He warned Georgians to expect more problems, and he pledged to offer compensation to families who had lost relatives in the fighting.
Despite all Georgia's setbacks in the last two weeks, Mr. Saakashvili vowed anew to restore Georgia's territorial integrity -- restating an ambition that had helped propel Georgia into a clash with its much more powerful neighbor to the north.
''Georgia has no extra territories to give to others,'' he said.
The war started late on Aug. 7 when Mr. Saakashvili ordered his small, American-trained military to attack and seize Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia, a tiny mountainous region on the southern face of the Caucasus Ridge. The region has been out of Georgia's control, and under Russian support, since a brief war in the 1990s.
Mr. Saakashvili's order, which he has said was necessary to prevent a Russian assault, turned into a disaster that threatened the Georgian state. Russian planes, rockets and artillery pounded Georgian positions, while armored units routed Georgian forces and swept into several principal cities.
Moreover, a wide plain of Georgian villages was largely depopulated and is now behind a new administrative border defended by Russian troops. Tbilisi was crowded on Friday with refugees, many subsisting in squalid conditions.
Even with many of the Russian troops withdrawn by Friday night, fears lingered that soldiers would try to conduct checks on the main east-west highway, creating economic stress on, or even a blockade of, Tbilisi and much of the rest of the country. Under the cease-fire accord, Russian forces are prohibited from blocking traffic, though they have done so this week.
''One of the Russian war goals was to bring down this government, and by economic pressure they hope to do that,'' a senior NATO official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the situation with reporters. ''Bringing down the government was more likely their goal than conquering Tbilisi.''
In response, NATO foreign ministers have sent civil emergency planning teams to help Georgia rebuild civilian infrastructure and restore its economy.
Georgia's prime minister, Lado Gurgenidze, played down the risk of an extended blockade of Tbilisi. ''There's been no hoarding, no panic buying, apart from a few incidents,'' Mr. Gurgenidze said.
He said the capital had stocks of gasoline and flour, though he declined to say how long they were expected to last.
At stores in Tbilisi, food prices have risen sharply since the conflict began and did not drop on Friday, even with the partial pullout. At one fruit stand, the price for peaches had risen by 40 percent, and for apples by 100 percent.
''We are afraid -- most people are stocking up, it's not just me,'' said Lyuda Marishvili, an elderly woman who was shopping at a market in the capital. ''The roads are closed. There will be no products.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russian soldiers on armored personnel carriers between Tbilisi and Gori, Georgia, on Friday, the last day of their withdrawal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY URIEL SINAI/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 A child in a refugee camp in Tbilisi, Georgia, for those displaced by the fighting in South Ossetia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEB GARANICH/REUTERS)(A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



562 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: After Musharraf, U.S. Struggles to Find New Pakistan Ally Against Taliban

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Now that Washington's close friend, President Pervez Musharraf, is gone, the question is this: who among the array of characters in the political firmament here will America turn to in the messy fight against an emboldened Taliban?
 Mr. Musharraf, president and army chief for almost all of his nine-year tenure before he resigned Monday under threat of impeachment, served as a convenient one-stop shopping window.
 The Bush administration relied on him for military support to suppress the Taliban in the tribal regions, and for intelligence in rounding up people suspected of belonging to Al Qaeda. In the end, it did not reap much of what it wanted. But Mr. Musharraf, the seemingly amenable autocrat, offered Washington a sense of leverage.
 With Mr. Musharraf out of power, recent visitors to the United States Embassy here say American officials have been at a loss -- one used the word ''struggling'' -- to figure out who America should throw its weight behind. 
 On Friday, the country's biggest party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, said it was nominating its leader, Asif Ali Zardari, for president, a post he may end up winning in an electoral college vote scheduled for Sept. 6.
 That could make Mr. Zardari America's default ally, though the next president's full range of powers, and his commitment and ability to fight the Taliban insurgency, as Washington would like, are far from clear. 
 In its first four months, the civilian government that Mr. Zardari effectively leads has been immobilized by infighting over whether and how to remove Mr. Musharraf -- and now over who should replace him. 
 So consuming has that battle been, the coalition has paid almost no attention to governing, even as the economy has tumbled and the Taliban have shown mounting grit in their goal of taking over the nuclear-armed state.
 Then there are the fights over the Musharraf legacy, the most bitter being whether to restore some 60 judges he dismissed last year. 
 Nawaz Sharif, chairman of the junior member of the coalition, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, on Friday gave Mr. Zardari until next week to reinstate the judges, including the Supreme Court chief justice. 
 A resolution would be drafted over the weekend, Mr. Sharif said at a news briefing, and introduced in Parliament on Monday. ''After debate,'' he said, ''it should be passed on Wednesday and judges should be restored.'' If not, he threatened to pull out of the government. 
 The political sniping has heightened jitters among American officials that no one is actually in charge as the Taliban insurgency gains steam. The death toll from the worst of the Taliban's suicide bombings, outside a munitions factory on Thursday, rose to 78, officials said, with 103 wounded.
 What is more, doubts are growing among American officials over the level of cooperation they can expect from the new army chief, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, a former head of intelligence who took over the post from Mr. Musharraf last November.
 After glowing initial reviews by the Americans, General Kayani has appeared less interested in how to deal with the Taliban than with the sagging morale of his undertrained, underequipped troops. 
 ''In my view they won't do aggressive counterinsurgency because they can't,'' said Christine Fair, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, of the Pakistani Army. 
 In the post-Musharraf era, she said, the army wants to concentrate on rehabilitating its morale and reputation, which were sullied by Mr. Musharraf's unpopular political decisions. ''This means they are less likely to cooperate, not more,'' she added. ''Right now, they care about what's in their own institution's interests.'' 
 That does not include getting their noses bloodied in a fight with the Taliban. But more important, perhaps, over the longer term, the Taliban remain an important tool for Pakistan to influence events over the border if the Americans leave Afghanistan, as they did after the departure of the Soviets, she said. 
 Meanwhile, the trio of civilian leaders -- Mr. Zardari; Mr. Sharif, and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani -- are all less than ideal to become the go-to figure for the United States in Pakistan.
 Mr. Gilani, a novice front man plucked out of obscurity by Mr. Zardari to be prime minister, made a poor public impression on his first visit to Washington last month, and was not much better behind the scenes, officials said.
 At a gathering of the Council on Foreign Relations, he stumbled through basic questions about the Pakistan-United States relationship from a knowledgeable crowd of experts. 
 In private meetings with the Bush administration, according to an official who attended, Mr. Gilani could offer only a simple mantra for defeating the Taliban: ''Let's work together.'' 
 Mr. Sharif enjoyed a good relationship with President Clinton when he was prime minister in the 1990s, but the former prime minister is regarded warily by Washington policy makers as being too close to conservative Islamic forces in Pakistan.
 The fact that Mr. Sharif is riding a tide of popularity because of his staunch anti-Musharraf stance does not impress the Bush administration, said Daniel Markey, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
 To the surprise of many here, the civilian with the trump card, then, may be Mr. Zardari, the widower of Benazir Bhutto, who took up the mantle of her party after she was assassinated in December. 
 Mr. Zardari did not run for election, and lacks ample experience in government, but he manages the largest bloc in Parliament from behind the scenes. He is the power behind Mr. Gilani, making day-to-day decisions over government policy and appointments to senior positions that have included friends who have spent time in jail on corruption charges. 
 Mr. Zardari spent more than eight years in jail on corruption charges, but he was never convicted and says they amounted to a vendetta by his political enemies. 
 The charges were dropped, finally, as part of an amnesty accord with Mr. Musharraf when he and Ms. Bhutto returned to Pakistan. 
 That background makes Mr. Zardari a divisive figure in Pakistani politics, even as he moves steadily toward sewing up the presidency. But after Mr. Gilani's weak performance in Washington, Bush administration officials may be tilting toward Mr. Zardari as their likely alternative ally. 
 As president, he could end up being one of the most powerful figures Pakistan has ever seen. He would no doubt continue to effectively control the prime minister. 
 The big question is whether as president he would hold the ultimate power that Mr. Musharraf enjoyed: the ability under a constitutional amendment to dissolve the Parliament. The coalition has pledged to abolish that provision.
 But if Mr. Zardari manages to keep that power, the United States could be back to its one-stop shopping window, though with a different character behind the counter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mourners on Friday carried the coffin of a victim of Thursday's suicide bombing in Wah, Pakistan. At left, a man mourned a relative who was killed in the attack, in which 78 people died.
From left, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the Pakistani army chief
Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani
the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif
 and Asif Ali Zardari, of the Pakistan Peoples Party.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANJUM NAVEED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (58%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (89%); NAWAZ SHARIF (78%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



563 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: On Second Thought

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and TIM ARANGO; Carolyn Wilder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as he publicly remains coy about his political future, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has quietly approached some of the city's most powerful media figures to assess whether their publications would endorse a bid to overturn New York City's term limits, which could clear a path for him to run for re-election next year.
 Over the last several weeks, Mr. Bloomberg has held confidential conversations with Rupert Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation, which owns The New York Post; Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News; and Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of The New York Times Company, to gauge their views on the issue, according to people familiar with the talks. 
 The conversations are the clearest evidence to date that Mr. Bloomberg is seriously considering a challenge to the term limits law that will force him from office January 2010. 
 Such a move would upend New York's political world and be a dramatic reversal for the mayor. He has voiced intense opposition in the past to making any changes to the term limits law, which restricts citywide elected officials and members of the City Council to two consecutive terms in office.
 Given his popularity, a third-term campaign by Mr. Bloomberg could force mayoral hopefuls, like Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, Representative Anthony D. Weiner and Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., to rethink their plans.
 New York voters passed term limits in 1993, and polls show they remain strongly in favor of them, a major obstacle for any campaign by the mayor. Mr. Bloomberg is trying to appeal to influential business leaders, especially in the news media, to sway public opinion in his favor, people familiar with the matter said.
 Many of the city's top business executives have privately said they are dissatisfied with the field of candidates who are likely to run for mayor next year, and are seeking a way to keep Mr. Bloomberg in office. Mr. Bloomberg is hoping that newspaper publishers -- and their editorial boards -- will back a campaign to ease the limits, giving him some political cover in what would certainly be a contentious battle. 
 About a month ago, Mr. Bloomberg sounded out Mr. Murdoch at a dinner at a restaurant in downtown Manhattan about whether The Post might support an effort to overturn the city's term limits law.
 One person familiar with the mayor's efforts to woo the three newspaper executives, who spoke anonymously because the talks were meant to be confidential, said Mr. Murdoch was inclined to lend his support given the absence of a strong alternative candidate for mayor. 
 A person close to Mr. Zuckerman said he was open to the idea of a third term for Mr. Bloomberg, and suspected The Post and The Times would be, too. ''So it would be a clean sweep,'' this person said.
 Representatives of Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Sulzberger declined to comment, and a spokesman for Mr. Zuckerman could not be reached by phone. 
 A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, also declined to comment.
 ''We don't discuss personal conversations the mayor may or may not have with people,'' Mr. Loeser said in an e-mail message.
 In recent months, Mr. Bloomberg has appeared increasingly uncertain about what he will do after his second term ends, and has wondered aloud whether his plan to focus full time on philanthropy would be fulfilling enough. At the same time, his once blunt language about the strength of his opposition to term limits has grown more equivocal.
 The mayor could pursue several avenues to overturn term limits, but the most likely is through the City Council, which can pass legislation permitting a third term with or without a public referendum, said Randy M. Mastro, the former deputy mayor for operations under Rudolph W. Giuliani and a lawyer who has tried cases dealing with term limits.
 ''That may have a certain political appeal to the mayor and City Council speaker,'' Mr. Mastro said, ''given that both face term limits.'' 
 Of course a move by the City Council to ease or undo term limits -- without ratification by voters -- would be potentially politically explosive, and members of the Council could face a backlash if they supported it. Another option for the mayor -- a ballot initiative overturning term limits -- would have to be completed in the next two weeks to be considered during this November's election, which Mr. Mastro said ''cannot be accomplished'' because of the time needed to collect signatures and overcome various legal hurdles. 
 Those familiar with the mayor's overtures to the publishers said he wished to avoid the kind of bruising confrontation with editorial boards that characterized his last push to revise the city's election rules. 
 In 2003, the mayor tried to institute nonpartisan elections, spending millions of his own fortune to overturn the century-old system of Democratic- and Republican-dominated politics. But editorials in The Times, The Post and Newsday urged people to vote against the plan, which they did, overwhelmingly, in a stinging defeat for the mayor. 
 ''He does not want to repeat that,'' said a person familiar with the mayor's thinking, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Even if the city's big newspapers backed a third term, supporters of term limits are unlikely to back down easily. Ronald S. Lauder, the billionaire cosmetics heir who in 1993 spent millions of dollars in a successful campaign to limit all elected city officials to two terms, will fight to keep them in place, said a spokesman, Nelson Warfield. 
 ''Mr. Lauder remains 100 percent committed to defending the voters' choice on term limits,'' Mr. Warfield said, adding, ''anyone who tried to tinker with term limits will find it's hard to rob the voters.'' Asked whether Mr. Lauder would again open his wallet to champion term limits in the face of a mayoral challenge, Mr. Warfield said, ''All options are on the table.''
 The idea that Mr. Bloomberg may be seeking a way to serve another term has set off intense chatter among the city's leading politicians. Asked by reporters on Friday, Gov. David A. Paterson enthusiastically endorsed it, saying the mayor had expertly handled the city's economic challenges.
 ''So Mayor Bloomberg, if he wants to run for mayor a third time I think it's a great idea,'' said Mr. Paterson, a Harlem Democrat. 
 Of course, if the mayor decided to run again, it would eliminate him as a potential challenger to Mr. Paterson for governor in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); NEWS CORP (83%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (79%); RICK PERRY (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



564 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Automakers to Seek More Money for Retooling Vehicle Plants

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The steep decline in vehicle sales and rapid shift in the market to smaller cars has prompted General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler to seek a significant increase in the $25 billion government loan program authorized last year to help them build more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 The carmakers, each of which has lost billions of dollars in the last several years, say the loans would allow them to overhaul their plants more quickly than they can otherwise afford to in a dismal time for the United States auto industry. 
 Approval for the loans was included an energy bill enacted in December, as a means of helping the companies and their suppliers meet stricter fuel economy regulations.
 The automakers are urging Congress and the Bush administration to authorize at least $3.75 billion, the amount needed to cover the default risk on $25 billion in loans, by the end of September so that they can start to have access to the money next year. At the same time, the companies are expected to ask for more money to be made available after the initial loans.
 ''A lot has changed since that legislation was enacted,'' Greg Martin, a G.M. spokesman, said Friday. ''It's going to be north of $25 billion. But the payoff will be substantial, not only for consumers but certainly for the economy over all.''
 The carmakers appear to have the backing of both major presidential candidates, Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama. Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, who has been critical of the Detroit automakers, endorsed the loans earlier this month, saying, ''I want the fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow to be built not in Japan, not in China, but right here in the United States of America -- right here in the state of Michigan.'' 
 On Friday, he said in a statement: ''Breaking our oil addiction requires helping our auto industry retool to make fuel-efficient cars and trucks.'' He added that he also supported ''providing additional assistance to the companies in future years to ensure that advanced fuel-efficient vehicles will be made here in the U.S.'' The United Automobile Workers union cited Mr. Obama's support for the loans in its endorsement of his candidacy last week. The U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said Mr. McCain's proposals of a $300 million prize for battery research and tax credits for buyers of highly efficient vehicles ''will not bring any jobs or production to Michigan or anywhere else, while Senator Obama is offering real solutions.''
 Mr. McCain's campaign released a statement on Friday showing his support for the loans. He said the government should not ignore Detroit while it helped Wall Street by bailing out the investment firm Bear Stearns and the mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
 ''Our auto companies are rising to the challenge building the next generation of American cars, but are doing so in times when credit conditions cripple the funding for the facilities and technologies to take the steps to the future,'' Mr. McCain, the likely Republican presidential nominee, said.
 The comments from Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama came after a Wall Street Journal editorial on Friday that criticized the loan program as a bailout for Detroit automakers at taxpayers' expense.
 Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, rebutted such suggestions during an appearance Friday on the Detroit radio station WJR-AM. She said the companies were making rapid progress toward offering more fuel-efficient vehicles but that the changes they needed to make were simply too costly to make without help from the government.
 Ford recently said it was spending billions of dollars to convert three North American truck factories into plants that can make small cars like the Ford Fiesta. Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit car companies, said last week that it would spend $1.8 billion so it could build crossover vehicles at a Detroit plant that now makes sport utility vehicles.
 Officials from G.M. and Ford declined to specify how much money their companies needed from the government.
 ''I don't think anything's been nailed down yet,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said after a Thursday event at G.M.'s compact car plant in Lordstown, Ohio. ''In the times that the industry's in and the massive investments that we and suppliers have in front of us, obviously support as we retool in the form of loan guarantees would be appreciated.''
 Ford's vice president for governmental affairs, Bruce Andrews, said, ''Congress has created this program to help with loans for the investment we are making on transitional technologies, and we are looking for them to fund this program.'' 
 The loans would not be limited to the Detroit carmakers. They are designated for any United States factories at least 20 years old, which includes plants operated by suppliers and foreign-based manufacturers like Honda.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas LaSorda, Rick Wagoner and Alan Mulally took their troubles to the White House in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C1)
 In 2006, President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney met with automobile executives at the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); APPROVALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (75%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ALAN MULALLY (58%); RICK WAGONER (58%); DICK CHENEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



565 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Beijing's Bad Faith Olympics

 BODY:
The Beijing Olympics still have one more day to run. But the final gold medal -- for authoritarian image management -- can already be safely awarded to China's Communist Party leadership. 
 Beijing got what it wanted out of this globally televised spectacular. It reaped a huge prestige bonanza that it will surely use to promote its international influence and, we fear, further tighten its grip at home. 
 It pocketed these gains without offering any concessions in return. When it increased repression -- rather than loosening up -- a supine International Olympic Committee barely offered a protest. Most world leaders, including President Bush, were nearly as complicit. 
 In Beijing for the opening ceremony, Mr. Bush seemed eager to play the role of the apolitical sports fan, instead of publicly pressing China's leaders on the ongoing Olympics crackdown. That nicely fit into the Chinese script of talking up sports while shutting down politics.
 To win the right to host these Games, China promised to honor the Olympic ideals of nonviolence, openness to the world and individual expression. Those promises were systematically broken, starting with this spring's brutal repression in Tibet and continuing on to the ugly farce of inviting its citizens to apply for legal protest permits and then arresting them if they actually tried to do so. 
 Along the way, government critics were pre-emptively rounded up and jailed, domestic news outlets tightly controlled, foreign journalists denied full access to the Internet and thousands of Beijing's least telegenic residents were evicted from their homes and out of camera range. On Friday, the Chinese police confirmed that six Americans protesting China's rule in Tibet had been sentenced to 10 days of detention. 
 Surely one of the signature events of these Games was the sentencing of two women in their late 70s to ''re-education through labor.'' Their crime? Applying for permission to protest the inadequate compensation they felt they had received when the government seized their homes years ago for urban redevelopment.
 A year ago, the I.O.C. predicted that these Games would be ''a force for good'' and a spur to human-rights progress. Instead, as Human Rights Watch has reported, they became a catalyst for intensified human-rights abuse. 
 Mr. Bush has taken some note of China's appalling human-rights record this summer -- privately meeting with Chinese dissidents in Washington just before his visit to the Games and gently nudging his hosts on religious freedom while in Beijing. With these repression-scarred Olympics now drawing to a close, Mr. Bush and other world leaders must tell Beijing that its failure to live up to its Olympic commitments will neither be ignored nor forgotten. 
 The medal count and DVD sales cannot be the last word on the Beijing Games. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); SENTENCING (86%); EVICTION (76%); SPORTS FANS (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); ARRESTS (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); WRITERS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (65%); RELIGION (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (98%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (98%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



566 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Urges Broader Market Oversight

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE; Louis Uchitelle contributed reporting from Jackson Hole, Wyo.

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, outlined an ambitious proposal on Friday for overseeing the credit markets and preventing a rerun of the crisis that the country is currently struggling to shake off.
 Describing his approach as ''macroprudential regulation,'' Mr. Bernanke said the effort ''would involve an attempt by regulators to develop a more fully integrated overview of the entire financial system.''
 Mr. Bernanke made only a brief reference to inflation and interest rates in a 25-minute speech that opened the Fed's annual economic symposium in this mountain resort. He suggested, in effect, that inflation was moderating and that there was no need to raise the key interest rate that the Fed controls from its present low level. 
 The rate, which influences the cost of mortgages, car loans and other credit, was cut to 2 percent in April from 5.25 percent eight months earlier to help offset the damage from the housing collapse and a tight credit market. Some Fed policy makers, however, have started to advocate raising the rate again, arguing that the Fed should act before the inflation rate accelerates.
 Mr. Bernanke, while acknowledging ''an increase in inflationary pressure,'' reasserted his view that in the near future, the upswing in inflation from the oil and food shocks was likely to moderate. 
 ''The recent decline in commodity prices as well as the increased stability of the dollar has been encouraging,'' he said. ''If not reversed, these developments, together with a pace of growth that is likely to fall short of potential for a time, should lead inflation to moderate later this year and next year.''
 Addressing more than 100 invitees from Wall Street, academia and government, as well as foreign central bankers, Mr. Bernanke described what some of his aides said were exploratory proposals for gradually improving credit market oversight so there would not be another crisis like the one set off a year ago by the surge in defaults on subprime mortgages. 
 Under Mr. Bernanke's plan, investment banks, because they are engaged in borrowing and lending using a variety of complicated credit instruments, would be subject to regulatory supervision, just as commercial banks are. The Fed is already, informally, beginning to supervise these ''payment and settlement systems,'' but Mr. Bernanke suggested that Congress ''should consider granting the Federal Reserve explicit oversight authority.''
 He also argued, repeating a suggestion that he has made before, that Congress should consider giving some government entity -- probably the Treasury -- formal authority to intervene in the bailout of an investment house that otherwise might go under, damaging the financial system. The authority would substitute for the costly ad hoc arrangement that the Fed and the Treasury used to engineer the sale of the Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase.
 Such arrangements have existed for commercial banks for years, and now ''Congress may wish to consider whether such a framework should be set up for a defined set of nonbank institutions,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 He also suggested a system of exchanges that would act as intermediaries in the buying and selling of credit instruments. And he said that regulators should examine not just individual loan portfolios or shaky banks and investment houses, but also broad lending practices, to ferret out types of loans -- like subprime mortgages -- that endangered the financial system because they were both very risky and increasingly widespread.
 ''Systemwide stress tests,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''might highlight common exposures and 'crowded trades' that might not be visible in tests confined to one firm.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke with Timothy F. Geithner, New York Fed president, at the symposium Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); MOUNTAINS (55%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



567 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2885 words

HEADLINE: For McCains, a Public Path but Private Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
When Senator John McCain is in Washington, he lives in a luxury high-rise condominium in Arlington, Va., owned by his wife, Cindy Hensley McCain. Mrs. McCain also owns their condos in Phoenix, San Diego and Coronado, Calif., and their vacation compound near Sedona, Ariz. And it is the beer business, Hensley & Company, she inherited from her father that is the source of the McCain family fortune.
 That fortune makes Mr. McCain one of the richest members of the Senate. Yet barely a sliver of it is in his name.
 Democrats have increasingly highlighted Mr. McCain's wealth. Senator Barack Obama ridiculed him on Thursday for being unable to say how many homes he owned, saying it showed that Mr. McCain was out of touch with ordinary Americans. But with the McCains' money in Cindy McCain's name, as dictated by a prenuptial agreement, the senator's finances are more difficult to assess and scrutinize than those of many other political candidates. 
 The husbands and wives of senators are subject to fewer disclosure requirements than their office-holding spouses. In addition, Mrs. McCain, who files separate tax returns from her husband, controls a privately held company and invests mainly through a web of limited-liability corporations and trusts that have few disclosure requirements. She declined to be interviewed.
 ''Cindy is a private person, and I think in many ways that defines her,'' said Robert Delgado, her father's successor as chief executive of Hensley & Company, who spoke at the McCain campaign's behest.
 But the Hensley family wealth, from its rough-and-tumble origins to prominence in Arizona's corporate world, is also the fortune that propelled John McCain into national politics. A clearer picture of that fortune emerges from a review of public records and interviews with employees, business associates, friends and relatives.
 Hensley & Company has grown from a tiny operation in the 1950s to the dominant beer wholesaler in Arizona and the third-largest Budweiser distributor in the country, with more than $300 million in annual sales. It plays a leading role in corporate Phoenix -- Andy McCain, the senator's stepson from his first marriage and a top executive of the beer company, is now president of the city's Chamber of Commerce -- and is a forceful presence in state politics on the issues that matter to it.
 But by all accounts, Mrs. McCain is far from a forceful presence at the company, where she is chairwoman.
 She crisscrosses the country on the company jet, keeps an accountant on the company payroll to mind her personal finances, drives a company Lexus with ''MS BUD'' plates and says she oversees the company's ''strategic planning and corporate vision.'' Yet she almost never shows up in the office, is deemed an absentee owner by Anheuser-Busch and has left scarcely a mark on the company, present and former executives say.
 Mrs. McCain has spent far more time as a volunteer on behalf of needy children. She is a board member of CARE and Operation Smile, which provides cleft-palate surgery for impoverished children; when she visited Mother Teresa's orphanage in Bangladesh 17 years ago, she brought a baby girl back for the surgery and then adopted her.
 Her business, however, recently found itself at odds with advocates for pediatric hospital beds in Arizona's neediest communities and for a statewide childhood education program. When the advocates proposed initiatives that would raise liquor taxes, Hensley opposed them.
 Mrs. McCain has not said how she would handle her business if her husband were elected president. The federal government has domain over issues important to the alcohol industry, like excise taxes, marketing to under-age drinkers and beverage labeling. 
 Anheuser-Busch documents suggest that Mrs. McCain's ownership of Hensley & Company could also create an unusual circumstance. The brewer's contracts with wholesalers require that absentee owners supervise their managers, attend meetings and make timely decisions, meaning that the business would be overseen by the first lady. And if she chose to withdraw from ownership, Anheuser-Busch would have the right to approve whoever bought her shares, or to make an offer to buy them. 
 A Colorful Inheritance
 He was a young husband and father before he went off to war. Wounded in combat, he returned home a hero, but stunned his wife by divorcing her to marry another woman. The warrior in this case was not Cindy McCain's husband, but her father, James W. Hensley. 
 Jim Hensley's first marriage was to his Phoenix high school sweetheart, Mary Jeanne Parks. Family lore says he was treading water in the English Channel, after his B-17 was shot down, when his daughter, Kathleen Anne Hensley, was born in February 1943.
 The marriage ended there, according to that daughter, now Kathleen Portalski. Recuperating far from home, he fell in love with Marguerite Smith, a woman from Tennessee with a 10-year-old daughter. By March 1945, he was divorced, and they married. 
 Back in Phoenix, he and his brother, Eugene, went into the liquor business with Kemper Marley, a businessman who had cornered much of the market in Arizona after Prohibition ended.
 In March 1948, a federal jury convicted both Hensleys of concealing sales of black-market liquor. Jim Hensley's six month sentence was suspended. A second indictment, in 1953 for falsifying records to evade taxes, was dismissed.
 The Hensleys bought a New Mexico horse track in 1952. Eugene Hensley's role at the track led to lawsuits, tax-evasion charges and prison. In 1969, he sold out to a mob-connected company with close ties to Mr. Marley, according to published reports. (The Phoenix police named Mr. Marley as the man they believed ordered the 1976 assassination of Don Bolles, an investigative reporter for The Arizona Republic. Mr. Marley, who died in 1990, was never charged.) 
 Jim Hensley sold his stake in the track in 1955, and took a job at a beer wholesaler. After buying the business, in 1959 he got a federal wholesaler's permit as Hensley & Company.
 Selling Bud in steel cans and Michelob draft, Hensley & Company started with a 6 percent market share. But Mr. Hensley, bent on building the ''Cadillac of beer companies,'' lured workers with generous pay and benefits.
 Few big cities have only one Budweiser wholesaler, but Phoenix had just 107,000 residents in 1950. A decade later, its population had quadrupled. Hensley's market share shot to 50 percent in 1987, from 20 percent in 1970; it now has nearly two-thirds of the market. 
 Those who knew Mr. Hensley, who died at 80 in June 2000, invariably sing his praises. If he had one flaw, they add, it was being unable to say no to his wife or their daughter, Cindy Lou, who was born in 1954.
 At her father's funeral, Cindy McCain told of his gentle reaction when she wrecked the car he had bought her after she graduated from the University of Southern California, according to people who were there. She did not mention, as a former employee recalled, that it was a Porsche and that he replaced it with a Mercedes-Benz. When the young Cindy Hensley began teaching high school and was criticized for driving a fancy car, the ex-employee said, her father bought her a Volkswagen to drive to school. 
 Mr. Hensley also quietly subsidized his first daughter, Mrs. Portalski, and her family. He paid for her children's schooling, gave them credit cards and wrote company checks of $40,000 a year to Mrs. Portalski and her husband, the couple said in an interview.
 But in his will, Mr. Hensley left Mrs. Portalski just $10,000 and her offspring nothing. ''It's so disappointing, just being pushed aside,'' she said. Mrs. Portalski said Mrs. McCain added insult to that injury by referring to herself, in her eulogy for her father, as his only child -- while her half-sister sat in a front pew.
 Shortly after Jim Hensley's death, Mrs. Portalski's daughter said, she tried charging a meal and had her company credit card rejected. Her son says he learned that Mr. Hensley's promise to pay his graduate-school tuition was no longer operative. 
 A McCain campaign spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, said Mr. Hensley's will did not provide for continuing his periodic gifts to relatives.
 Absent, and Entitled
 Her father's death left Mrs. McCain with full control over his company, though she has seldom intervened, executives say. ''She's never been a day-to-day manager in this business,'' said Mr. Delgado, the chief executive.
 In the late 1980s, she set up a charitable organization out of Hensley headquarters, distributing medical supplies in developing countries. But she disbanded the group in the early 1990s after she became addicted to painkillers and was caught stealing from its supply of drugs.
 Since then, her parking space has seldom been occupied. In fact, Anheuser-Busch treats her as an absentee owner, requiring Mr. Delgado to have total control over business operations and capital investments.
 Mr. Delgado confirmed that after Jim Hensley died, Anheuser-Busch approached Mrs. McCain about buying the distributorship, because the brewer prefers hands-on owners. But he said Mrs. McCain decided she wanted to be the steward of her father's legacy. 
 But others who have seen the company's books gave another reason: The company is handsomely profitable. She owns a controlling 34 percent share of a company with net profits estimated at more than $5 million a year.
 In addition, Meghan, Jack and James, the biological children of Mr. and Mrs. McCain, each have 7.73 percent of Hensley & Company. Andy McCain, 45, the senator's stepson, has 6.8 percent. Bridget McCain, the McCain's adopted daughter, has shares worth 3.4 percent. (Ms. Hazelbaker of the McCain campaign said Bridget's stake would eventually equal her siblings'.)
 Mr. Delgado declined to discuss equity stakes or distribution of profits and said Mrs. McCain spoke to him a few times a week, often about personal financial issues. He said she took an interest in Hensley's charitable giving and in ''things that could affect the company's existence.'' For example, when he proposed taking on debt to build a large warehouse in Tempe, he said Mrs. McCain's input was ''advice and consent.'' He praised her for otherwise letting management run the business.
 Another person knowledgeable about the company's finances said Mrs. McCain's involvement in Hensley was more limited. ''Delgado will tell her how much money they made, so she can tell him how much she'll take out,'' this person said. As controlling owner, Mrs. McCain is entitled to distribute profits to shareholders whenever she sees fit.
 How much she receives in profits is not a matter of public record. Distributions to other shareholders, who discussed them only anonymously, suggest she receives hundreds of thousands of dollars several times a year. Mrs. McCain has released only a two-page Form 1040 from her 2006 return. It listed $4.5 million in income from S corporations (like Hensley), partnerships, rental real estate and other categories; capital gains of $743,000, and dividends of $283,000. Mr. McCain's tax returns show that his wife received a salary from Hensley of more than $430,000 each of the last two years. (Mr. McCain listed $361,373 of his own income in 2007.)
 Senate rules do not require spouses to specify the values of assets or income sources exceeding $1 million, and Mrs. McCain has many of them, including shares in Anheuser-Busch, which at a minimum are worth $2.7 million. 
 Mrs. McCain has also invested in banks, including one founded by Valley National Bank, where her father got his first business loan. Valley National, now part of JPMorgan Chase, holds a promissory note of $500,000 to $1 million that Mrs. McCain has been rolling over annually since 2003. And Hensley's entire debt of $30 million is held by JPMorgan Chase, Mr. Delgado said.
 Far more of Mrs. McCain's money is invested in real estate. With Sharon Harper, a close friend, Mrs. McCain has stakes in three office complexes. At the Brophy College Preparatory School, where the McCains' two sons went to high school, the Harper Balcony sits just over the McCain Colonnade.
 Mrs. McCain owns 10 homes, including rental properties. 
 There are the condominium in the Crystal City section of Arlington; two in an oceanfront tower in Coronado; her father's condo in the La Jolla section of San Diego; a $4.7 million condo atop one of Phoenix's newest luxury towers; another unit on its fourth floor; and a $700,000 townhouse nearby.
 Then there are Mrs. McCain's vacation homes outside Sedona. In 1985, a Hensley entity bought the first, along Oak Creek. In 1996, Mrs. McCain bought an adjacent home for $750,000.
 In 1992, the McCains and the Harpers formed a partnership to buy six acres of vacant land across the creek, and in 2000 they bought another neighbor's spread. The Audubon Society turned the vacant land into a private bird sanctuary with help from the McCains. 
 While all of the family's real estate is held by Mrs. McCain, the John and Cindy McCain Family Foundation is funded by Mr. McCain. From 2001 to 2006, its donations averaged about $260,000 a year. In addition to big donations to children's causes, mine clearing and Parkinson's research, the United States Naval Academy received $420,000 to run an ethics conference in the senator's name; the Brophy school has received more than $250,000; Christ Lutheran, which Bridget and Jim attended, more than $100,000.
 Protecting Interests at Home
 The booming Hensley business financed John McCain's entry into politics: after marrying Cindy, he retired from the Navy in 1981 and planned a run for Congress the next year. To that end, he took a public-relations job at Hensley and set about introducing himself to voters. His father-in-law's wealth -- Mrs. McCain was given $639,000 by a Hensley affiliate in 1982 -- also enabled Mr. McCain to lend his campaign $167,000. 
 Today, Hensley & Company is a major donor to Arizona politicians, and has fought increases in the state excise tax, now about 1.5 cents a beer. The tax has risen only three times since the repeal of Prohibition, last in 1984, and remains 16 percent below the national median. 
 Its contributions have occasionally drawn bad publicity. In 1991, an Anheuser-Busch lobbyist accused Jim Hensley of passing him cash to give to lawmakers. But the lobbyist recanted, and no charges were filed. Hensley workers also told a local columnist in 1989 that they had been pressured to donate to specific political committees and to canvass for Mr. McCain's first Congressional race in 1982. The company denied it. But workers say Doug Yonko, an executive and nephew of Jim Hensley, still buttonholes colleagues for donations. Mr. Yonko said all gifts were voluntary.
 At the national level, the company's priorities, fought for by the National Beer Wholesalers' Association, include rolling back the national excise tax of about 5 cents a beer, last raised in 1991, and fighting efforts by hard-liquor distillers to require labels showing the amount of alcohol in a standard serving. The beer lobby also successfully opposed a bill to pay for television advertisements combating under-age drinking.
 Still, industry critics acknowledge that Mr. McCain has consistently recused himself from alcohol-specific issues. Yet he has received more contributions from the industry than nearly any other senator.
 The reason, beer executives say, is that Mr. McCain is sympathetic to business owners and shares their views on taxes and other economic issues.
 But George A. Hacker, director of the Alcohol Policies Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a group that is a frequent opponent of the alcohol lobby, said the industry would benefit if a McCain administration steered clear of alcohol policy to avoid conflicts of interest. Inaction, Mr. Hacker said, is almost always better than action in the industry's view.
 Nothing better sums up the low-key but formidable political power of Hensley & Company than its response to two recent ballot initiatives.
 Nadine Mathis Basha, the wife of a supermarket mogul, envisioned an early-childhood education program for toddlers statewide. To pay for it, Ms. Basha said, she approached Hensley in 2006 with a proposal to raise taxes on alcohol and tobacco. Mr. Delgado told her that while he supported such a program, a beer tax would ''open the floodgates'' nationwide and he would fight it, Ms. Basha recalled. Daunted, she went ahead with a tobacco-only tax increase, and her initiative passed.
 This year, Phoenix Children's Hospital proposed an initiative to raise money for pediatric hospital beds. Polling showed a liquor-tax increase would be an easy sell, but the hospital still offered a 30-year moratorium on any further liquor-tax increases. But Mr. Delgado said he learned that the moratorium was not ironclad and vowed to fight. The hospitals, lacking money for a costly advertisement campaign, folded, according to people involved.
 But Hensley & Company is taking no chances. It is supporting another initiative that would require that any ballot measure imposing a tax increase be approved by a majority of all registered voters in the state, not just of those who turn out at the polls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain is one of the richest members of the Senate. His wealth comes from his wife, Cindy, who inherited a $300-million-a-year beer business.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator John McCain and his wife, Cindy, with their children, in 1999. From left, Meghan, 14
Bridget, 8
James, 11
and Jack, 13. The children, along with Andy Mc- Cain, the senator's stepson, all own a percentage of Hensley & Company, the beer distributor founded by their grandfather. Bridget, born in Bangladesh and adopted by the McCains in 1991, owns the least, but her stake is expected to match her siblings' eventually.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 James W. Hensley, Cindy Mc- Cain's father. The company he founded is now the dominant beer wholesaler in Arizona.(pg. A15) CHART: All in the Family: Cindy McCain's family, not including John McCain, own 68 percent of Hensley & Company. Chart details timeline for McCain. (Source: Arizona Department of Liquor License and Control)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); POLITICS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CHRONOLOGIES (74%); FAMILY LAW (73%); BREWERIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (60%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (51%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: HENSLEY & CO (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (93%)

PERSON: CINDY MCCAIN (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%); SEDONA, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



568 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Weighs Panel To Review Regulations

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson's administration is considering a reorganization that would give him more direct control over the regulatory process and give the business community's concerns more sway, according to a draft of an executive order obtained by The New York Times.
 Notably, the plan, which would diminish the autonomy of the state's commissioners, would give the governor's top aides a chance to review state regulations created in the past five years and, if they chose to, order agencies to revoke or alter them. The review would pay particular attention to regulations that have been criticized by the business community or the news media. 
 Paterson administration officials emphasized that the order obtained by The Times was a draft and could change significantly. Business leaders, who have long complained of high taxes and regulatory restrictions, praised the plan when asked about it, but environmental and other outside groups expressed alarm. 
 The governor, a liberal Democrat during his more than two decades in the Senate, has notably tacked to the right on fiscal issues since taking office in March. Not only has he sought to define himself as a belt-tightening leader who can guide the state through a recession, his administration has also created a close relationship with business leaders and has sought their guidance and, as all politicians do, their campaign contributions. 
 A key feature of the reorganization, as drafted, would be a new executive review committee that would have the authority to revoke regulations deemed controversial. The committee would have authority over all agencies, but it would begin with a review of regulations enforced by the Departments of Environmental Conservation, Health, Agriculture and Markets, Labor, State, and Taxation and Finance, as well as the State Liquor Authority and the Workers' Compensation Board. 
 The governor's top deputy, Charles J. O'Byrne, would be the senior official on the five-member committee, and the others would be the budget director, the director of state operations, the counsel to the governor and the director of the Governor's Office of Regulatory Reform.
 Administration officials said they were simply trying to create a more robust regulatory review process as the state tries to revive the upstate economy and tackle a $24.4 billion budget deficit over the next three years. The draft was written by the Governor's Office of Regulatory Reform, which was set up during the Pataki administration to review regulation. 
 In some ways, the review committee, as described in the draft, would bolster the current power dynamic within the executive branch. State agencies are a part of the executive branch, and commissioners are appointees of the governor, but their autonomy has varied among administrations.
 More unusual is that agencies would be directed to ''analyze criticism and comment, formal and informal, by members of the public, the business community and the media within the past five years.'' 
 They would then submit the most criticized regulations for reconsideration by the committee, which would have the power to direct agencies to ''alter, reappraise or withdraw particular rules or paperwork requirements.'' There would be a new public comment period during the process. 
 ''This is a rough draft that has not been reviewed by the governor or his staff, and therefore should not be interpreted as to process, content, wording or direction,'' said Risa B. Heller, communications director for the governor. 
 ''Since he assumed office, the governor has underscored the importance of finding efficiencies in government -- this does not only mean dollars, it also means administrative processes and requirements,'' she said. ''To that end, we are always looking for ways to make government work effectively.''
 Some outside groups expressed concern. 
 ''Without having seen it, it certainly sounds scary to go back and look at the regulations that were essentially unpopular to the business community,'' said Russ Haven, the legislative counsel of the New York Public Interest Research Group. 
 Robert J. Moore, the executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York, said, ''It's kind of scary that something like that would even be considered by anybody in state government.''
 ''My concern is that there's always interest in seeing environmental regulations rolled back because sometimes people in the business community think these mandates are burdensome,'' he added. 
 Mr. Moore said he was particularly concerned about what effect the plan could have on the recently enacted Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, an effort by Northeastern states to regulate power plant emissions.
 ''This is exactly the type of regulation that industry has had problems with, and they would love to get a second bite at the apple,'' he said. 
 Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, had a far different assessment. 
 ''From the business community's point of view, New York State is overregulated, and there's a degree to which the extensive regulation in so many aspects of the state's economy puts us in an uncompetitive position versus other states,'' he said. ''We would certainly support changes in the regulatory review process.'' 
 He said the greenhouse initiative was ''one of our greatest concerns'' and a leading example of problematic regulation. 
 ''If it doesn't go right, you end up with a state-specific carbon tax that would put us in a noncompetitive position with neighboring states that don't do it, like Pennsylvania,'' he said. 
 Heather Briccetti, a vice president for government affairs at the Business Council, praised the Paterson administration's outreach to the business world.
 ''We've felt very strongly that he really is acutely aware of business needs and business concerns and trying to fix the state so it's a better place for business,'' she said. ''We are in daily communications with folks from the governor's office on a number of issues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



569 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Governor Names 2 to State's Troubled Economic Development Agency

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson on Friday nominated a former Citi executive and a Rochester-area businessman to fill two positions in the state's economic development agency, a move intended to bring stability to the troubled organization. 
 The nominations, if approved, would mean that Paterson appointees hold the three top posts at the organization, the Empire State Development Corporation, firmly putting the governor's stamp on it.
 Mr. Paterson nominated Marisa Lago, a global head of compliance at Citi Markets and Banking, to be president and chief executive; and he named Dennis M. Mullen, the chief executive of Greater Rochester Enterprise, an economic development company, to oversee the agency's upstate operations. 
 Ms. Lago's nomination needs the confirmation of the State Senate. Mr. Mullen's needs the approval of the agency's upstate governing board.
 Mr. Paterson has made revamping the agency a top priority. As he has sounded the alarm in recent weeks about the increasingly bleak outlook for New York's economy, a better functioning Empire State Development Corporation has become a key piece of the governor's economic revitalization plan.
 ''Here in New York we have to revitalize our economic development,'' Mr. Paterson said at a news conference at his office in Midtown Manhattan. ''We need to make sure that all areas of this state are revitalized and are growing.''
 Since he took over as governor in March, Mr. Paterson has overseen several big shifts at the agency. Days after Mr. Paterson was sworn in, the chairman, Patrick J. Foye, resigned under pressure from the new administration. Mr. Paterson later appointed a prominent Buffalo-area banking executive, Robert G. Wilmers, as the new chairman.
 The president and chief executive of the agency, who serves as its second-in-command, said in May that he would step down, as did the president of the agency's upstate division, leaving Mr. Paterson with the opportunity to name his own No. 2 and No. 3 executives.
 Mr. Wilmers has led the search to find replacements for the outgoing chief executive, Avi Schick, and the upstate president, Daniel Gunderson.
 The economic development corporation has been beset with geographic rivalries as downstate and upstate interests within the agency fought. Mr. Paterson said Friday that he hoped his nominees would bridge the longstanding divide between upstate and downstate interests.
 ''We're one state,'' he said. ''What I would like to do is send the signal from Albany that we want the most efficient way of saving money and creating the revitalization of our upstate economy and the return to New York City as a financial capital with the right people. And I think that's what we chose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson with Marisa Lago, his nominee for president of the development agency, and Robert G. Wilmers, the agency's current chairman.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (85%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ROBERT G WILMERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



570 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Voters Want More From Obama

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
After being pummeled for weeks by John McCain, and losing some of his slender lead in the polls, the Obama campaign may finally be showing signs of life.
 Barack Obama was always a long shot to win the White House. It's no secret that some portion of the electorate will never vote for him because of his color. But he has made the odds even longer by running a campaign that, since the primaries, has seemed directionless, uninspired and addicted to the empty calories of generalities.
 And the candidate himself has seemed flat. No fire. No passion. 
 I'm all for thoughtful, reasonable, even cerebral candidates. John Wayne has had way too much influence on our politics. (''Bring 'em on.'' ''Bomb, bomb Iran.'') But if ever there was a presidential campaign that cried out for a populist's passion, this is it.
 The last eight years have been calamitous. We're struggling with two wars, one of which we never should have started. The economy has tanked big time. The housing market has collapsed and foreclosures have skyrocketed.
 Motorists are reeling from high gasoline prices. The financial-services sector is teetering like a skyscraper in an earthquake. Robust budget surpluses have morphed into deficits stretching to the horizon and beyond. And cash-strapped, debt-ridden working families are viewing the future with high anxiety, if not outright fear.
 Senator Obama should be invoking F.D.R., who wanted to make the U.S. ''a country in which no one is left out.'' And Harry Truman, who had no qualms about getting in the face of the political opposition. (''I never gave anybody hell. I just told the truth, and they thought it was hell.'') And Robert Kennedy, who wanted the government to get behind a massive effort to rebuild the country and create millions of new jobs.
 Senator Obama has been talking about the economy lately, but his approach has been tepid and his remedies vague. The electorate wants more. A so-so appearance in Martinsville, Va., this week warmed up considerably when Senator Obama began talking about jobs and the nation's infrastructure.
 ''We need a policy to create jobs here in America,'' he said. Suddenly, the crowd was paying closer attention.
 Feeding off the heightened energy, Mr. Obama talked of the need ''to invest in people and our infrastructure right here in the U.S.A.''
 He went on: ''At a time when Iraq has a $79 billion surplus -- they have parked it in banks in New York City -- it doesn't make too much sense for us to be still spending U.S. taxpayer dollars, $10 billion monthly, rebuilding Baghdad.
 ''We should use some of that money to rebuild Virginia, building roads and laying broadband lines and putting people back to work.''
 There was a burst of applause and the crowd was completely with the candidate. It was the kind of connection that Senator Obama will have to make repeatedly, across the country, if he expects to be taking the oath of office in Washington in January.
 At that moment in Martinsville, the senator was speaking plainly and his listeners had no trouble relating. ''If we create a world-class infrastructure,'' Mr. Obama said, ''we create jobs now, but we also create the competitive platform for the future.''
 A new sense of excitement has been building around the Obama campaign, fueled by anticipation about his running mate, the upcoming convention and John McCain's inability to master the inventory of homes that he and his wife Cindy own.
 But that's summertime excitement. It's not the sort of thing that will carry a candidate across the finish line. Senator Obama needs a first-rate, crackling-with-excitement populist message, which means a laser-like focus on the economy and jobs.
 And he needs to show a lot more fire.
 Mr. Obama likes to say he's skinny but tough. But with all due respect, he hasn't yet demonstrated the degree of toughness needed to prevail in a presidential campaign. There is nothing genteel about these contests.
 From Watergate to the Swift Boat madness, we've seen how the struggle for the ultimate power of the presidency can degenerate to the rankest kind of ruthlessness and ugliness, usually at the expense of the Democrat.
 Joe Biden is a good model to follow here. A few months ago, after being asked on MSNBC about attacks on Senator Obama that were being unleashed by Senators McCain and Joe Lieberman, Mr. Biden said:
 ''I refuse to sit back like we did in 2000 and 2004. This administration is the worst administration in American foreign policy in modern history -- maybe ever. ... Every single thing they've touched has been a near-disaster.''
 A populist message and a willingness to take the fight to his opponent is Barack Obama's ticket to the White House.
 He's got 10 weeks to show if he's got the right stuff. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POLITICS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FAMILY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); FORECLOSURE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008



571 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Field Narrowing On Obama Choice As Running Mate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY; Carl Hulse and Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama informed two of his top three vice-presidential prospects Friday night that he would not be choosing them, Democratic officials said, encouraging a consensus within the party that he had settled on Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware.
 Mr. Obama's campaign and aides to Mr. Biden declined to comment. But Mr. Obama's notification to the two other candidates -- Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana and Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia -- was confirmed by senior associates of both men.
 The formal announcement was scheduled to be made in the form of text messages and e-mail messages sent to thousands of Obama supporters early Saturday. Mr. Obama and his running mate are scheduled to appear at an afternoon rally at the Old Statehouse in Springfield, Ill., the same place where Mr. Obama announced his candidacy for president 18 months ago.
 Mr. Obama's selection process has been so secretive that most people in his campaign headquarters still did not know what was going on Friday evening. Democrats were not ruling out the possibility that Mr. Obama could surprise the party with a choice other than Mr. Biden. 
 Should Mr. Obama in fact chose Mr. Biden, he would be moving to plug what many Democrats see as a hole in his resume, turning to a six-term senator who is a leading authority on foreign policy. Mr. Biden's selection would amount to a critical strategic choice: to go with a running mate who could reassure voters about shortfalls in Mr. Obama's background, rather than to pick someone who could deliver a state or reinforce Mr. Obama's message of change.
 Mr. Biden is the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and moves easily among foreign leaders and diplomats. Although he initially voted to authorize the war -- Mr. Obama has opposed the war from the start -- Mr. Biden has become a persistent critic of President Bush's policies in Iraq. Mr. Biden would complement Mr. Obama's antiwar position in the general election match-up against Senator John McCain, the likely Republican nominee, who has supported the war.
 Mr. Biden has a reputation for at times talking himself into trouble, and he was not always seen as a natural partner for Mr. Obama. A year ago, when he was himself running for the White House, Mr. Biden said Mr. Obama was ''not yet ready'' for the presidency.
 Some associates of Mr. Biden were informed by the Obama campaign to stand ready for television interviews on Saturday.
 Mr. Biden is Catholic, giving him appeal to that important voting bloc, though he favors abortion rights. He was born in Scranton, Pa., a swing state where he remains well known. Mr. Biden is up for re-election to the Senate this year, and he would presumably run for both positions simultaneously were he on the presidential ticket.
 Mr. Biden was elected to the Senate in 1972 when he was 29 and reached the constitutionally required age of 30 before he was sworn in. He served as chairman of the Judiciary Committee before taking over at Foreign Relations and has a long legislative record on issues such as law enforcement in addition to his work on international policy.
 Mr. Obama is announcing his choice as he moves into a critical stage of his campaign, preparing for the Democratic Party's four-day convention in Denver, which begins Monday. Mr. Obama's aides viewed the introduction of his vice-presidential choice as the beginning of a weeklong stretch in which Mr. Obama hopes to dominate the stage and position himself for the fall campaign.
 Mr. Biden is on what is by all accounts a relatively short list of possibilities. In addition to Mr. Bayh and Mr. Kaine, Mr. Obama also called Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut on Friday to inform him that he had chosen someone else, according to Democrats familiar with the race. 
 As the selection process moved to an end, a Democrat who had once been viewed as a leading contender for the No. 2 spot -- Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, whom Mr. Obama had defeated in his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination -- slipped out of contention.
 While the decision was being closely held inside the Obama campaign, aides across the country were told late Friday to begin informing local officials about the vice-presidential decision on Saturday morning. As the speculation grew, Mr. Obama spent the day in Chicago, practicing his convention speech and having dinner with his family.
 As he walked into a downtown restaurant, reporters yelled, ''Where's the text?'' He responded with a laugh, not saying a word as he walked inside. 
 The pace of speculation quickened at the end of a day in which Mr. Obama's success at keeping his search secret -- with a combination of campaign discipline and political gamesmanship -- kept the world waiting and guessing. 
 CNN showed a split screen of the homes of people considered to be top contenders as well as Midway Airport in Chicago, where the pick might presumably land at some point. News reports tracked the whereabouts of the families of Mr. Biden and Mr. Bayh with an intensity usually reserved for fleeing felons.
 After days devoted to reviewing the political pluses and minuses of the possibilities, news reports spiced things up by injecting a new name into the mix, Representative Chet Edwards of Texas, touching off a flurry of analyses. (Associates of Mr. Obama said he was never a serious contender for the nomination. )
 On the Fox News Channel, the vice-presidential saga shared the stage with stories like the one about a North Carolina man who caught a record catfish with his granddaughter's Barbie fishing rod. But it was Mr. Obama who was really reeling them in, building the suspense over the choice in a strategic approach that left party operatives straining to decide whether it was a stroke of genius or a miscalculation.
 But a certain weariness of the vice-presidential game was emerging in some quarters, leaving other Democrats to wonder privately whether Mr. Obama's campaign was getting too cute in playing ''catch me if you can'' with the news media at the expense of a more resonant message on economic issues.
 Several Democratic strategists, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed concern that Mr. Obama was losing an opportunity to make the most of the news of his running mate by announcing too closely to the nominating convention. That said, Mr. Obama clearly was not looking to his vice-presidential selection as a major moment in his presidential bid, and the relatively short roll-out, going into the convention, was designed to prevent the second wave of often negative re-examination news stories that follow selections like this.
 The anticipation of the text message promised by the Obama campaign and the hair-trigger posture of the press did leave some vulnerable to hoaxes.
 The apparent first big victim: The Wall Street Journal, which posted an urgent bulletin on Friday reporting that Mr. Obama had selected Mr. Kaine as his running mate. It immediately retracted the report, and the paper issued an apology: ''The Journal news department was sent an erroneous announcement about the selection of a vice presidential candidate for Barack Obama. Once we realized the announcement was erroneous, we immediately withdrew the headline. We regret any inconvenience this caused our readers.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ginger Gibson, left, and Kristen Moses, reporters for The Wilmington News Journal in Delaware, outside the Biden family home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM THOMAS CAIN/GETTY IMAGES)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIM KAINE (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); EVAN BAYH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (50%) DELAWARE, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



572 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Return Ticket

BYLINE: By ROBERT MACFARLANE. 
Robert Macfarlane is the author of ''Mountains of the Mind'' and ''The Wild Places.''

 BODY:
GHOST TRAIN TO THE EASTERN STAR
 On the Tracks of the Great Railway Bazaar
 By Paul Theroux
 496 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $28
 Sigmund Freud suffered from a phobia of train travel that he called Reisefieber. Paul Theroux suffers from the opposite: a love of railways that is close to a compulsion. In 1973-74, Theroux traveled (mostly) by train from London to Tokyo via India and South-east Asia, before returning on the Trans-Siberian Express to his point of origin. That four-month journey was written up as ''The Great Railway Bazaar'' (1975), the book that made Theroux's reputation as a travel writer. Other train-track epics followed: ''The Old Patagonian Express'' (1979), down through Central and South America, and ''Riding the Iron Rooster'' (1988), back and forth through China not long before Tiananmen. 
 And now he's back on the tracks. Back on his own tracks, in fact, for in ''Ghost Train to the Eastern Star,'' Theroux re-traces the route he took in ''The Great Railway Bazaar.'' The idea, as he explains at excessive length in the first chapter, is to audit the changes that have occurred in Europe and Asia since he first traversed them -- and also to hunt the ''specter'' of his younger self. 
 It's the kind of project that only a man secure in his own self-esteem could undertake: an auto-pilgrimage, a grand homme's homage to, well, himself. But then Theroux has never been overburdened by modesty. Although he has claimed that a prerequisite of traveling responsibly is avoiding arrogance, his previous travelogues have all been pungent with self-regard. ''Ghost Train'' is no different. 
 The story is told over the course of 32 chapters and nearly 500 pages. Each chapter corresponds to a segment of the overall voyage, and each involves at least one rail journey, many of them on night trains. In this way we trail Theroux trailing himself: train after train, city after city, country after country. A typical chapter consists of local-colorish place descriptions, cutaways to relevant historical background, encounters with various people (writers, prostitutes, businessmen, fellow travelers) and sundry riffs on pretty much anything that occurs to Theroux. (''Why,'' he contemplates, ''is the motorway culture drearier in Europe than anywhere in America?'') These elements are grouted together with accounts of trains caught and meals eaten, the details of which readers may find of less interest than Theroux does. (''I . . . ordered a half bottle of white Burgundy, salad and bouillabaisse marseillaise . . with croutons and remoulade.'') 
 Theroux has long enjoyed a pugnacious relationship with other writers, and his bellicosity remains in evidence in ''Ghost Train.'' V. S. Naipaul is, as usual, upbraided for being boastful, younger travel writers are dismissed as ''opportunistic punks'' and Prince Charles is rapped over the knuckles for his diary's ''breezy generalizations'' about travel. 
 Yet throughout this book, Theroux is regularly boastful, opportunistic -- and breezily generalizing. Arriving in Turkey, he recalls nostalgically how ''on my first trip I had summarized Turkey as a peasant economy with colorful ruins.'' Georgia, he concludes within days of arriving, is ''a supine and beleaguered country of people narcissistic about their differences.'' China apparently ''exists in its present form because the Chinese want money.'' In the desert of Turkmenistan, his eye is snagged by a pretty woman: ''Her beauty in this crusted wasteland was like a metaphor for Turkmenistan: lovely people, awful place.'' 
 Most of these generalizations are intellectually intolerable, some are banalities masquerading as profundities and a few just fail to make sense: ''A train station is a little democracy in which everyone has a right to exist on the presumption that he or she might be waiting for a train.'' The book's extraordinary closing paragraph consists of a series of generalizations laid end to end, in a crescendo of blaring sententiousness: ''Most people on earth are poor. Most places are blighted and nothing will stop the blight getting worse. Travel gives you glimpses of the past and the future. No one on earth is well governed. The going is still good.'' 
 Such tossed-off one-liners are risible in isolation, but in sum they suggest a systemic laziness of thought. This impression is confirmed by Theroux's repeated tendency to repetition. The chapter on Turkmenistan, for instance, opens with a description of the (since deceased) leader of the Turkmen, Saparmurat Niyazov. In the course of two pages Theroux describes Niyazov as ''one of the wealthiest and most powerful lunatics on earth,'' a perpetrator of ''insane schemes,'' ''the maddest patient,'' ''out of his mind,'' ''crazy,'' suffering from ''mental illness'' and capable of ''even nuttier'' schemes. Mad, then, you say? In Japan, shortly before meeting the writer Pico Iyer, Theroux loses a few hours' work to a computer malfunction. He takes it badly: ''I raged for an hour or more''; ''I had to unburden myself''; ''I had Pico to listen to me howl on the subject''; ''I unburdened myself, raging.'' Poor Pico Iyer, you think, shaking your head in sympathy at the thought of the encounter. 
 Throughout ''Ghost Train,'' great bubbles of egotism gout to the surface of the prose. One of Theroux's first thoughts on meeting the Nobel Prize-winning writer Orhan Pamuk is ''that he reminded me of myself.'' When Theroux gives a talk in Ankara, he notes that ''400 people were already in their seats'' by the time he arrived. On a train in Thailand he spends ''a pleasant hour'' watching a fellow traveler reading one of his books, ''rapt -- or nearly so -- chewing her lips as she read.'' Theroux humbly remarks of ''The Great Railway Bazaar'' that it ''had done what the written word sometimes accidentally does, worked a kind of magic.'' In Moscow, he finds ''bookstores with my own books in them, in Russian and English''; and ''in one of those stores,'' he writes, ''I was chatting up a Russian woman, telling her my travels. I told only half of what I'd seen, because she would never have believed me.'' 
 Certain writers have a style that can be best likened to body odor: irresistible to some, obnoxious to many and apparently imperceptible to the writer himself. Theroux's lack of self-awareness, his failure to observe the basic hygiene of modesty, is compelling in its way. How can anyone be this narcissistic, you wonder in disbelief, in appalled fascination. 
 On the train to Kyoto, near the close of his journey, Theroux is inspired to ponder the differences between the journey he has just completed and the one he made more than 30 years previously. ''What's the big difference between then and now? I knew that it wasn't all the changes, big and small, in Turkey or India or Singapore or Vietnam. It wasn't computers or the Internet or high-speed trains, not fast food or cheap wristwatches or everyone wearing blue jeans. The greatest difference was in me. I had survived the long road that led to the present.'' 
 Lucky you, Paul Theroux. It's an exemplary moment in a book defined and driven by egotism. After reading the auto-hagiography of the Turkmen leader Niyazov, Theroux summarizes it as ''pages and pages most of it self-reverential.'' He could be writing a press release for his own book.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%)

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); ASIA (88%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

TITLE: Ghost Train to the Eastern Star (Book)>; Ghost Train to the Eastern Star (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



573 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Connected, Yes, But Hermetically Sealed

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''MAN is born free, and everywhere he is in chains,'' said Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
 What would Rousseau have made of the modern-day balls and chains with which we shackle ourselves? They are not made of steel or iron, but of silicon and plastic and digits and electrons and waves zooming through the air. These are the chains of all kinds of devices, like the BlackBerry, the iPhone and the Voyager. These are the chains with which we have bound ourselves, losing much of our solitude and our ability to see the world around and inside us.
 Consider an airplane flight. We are soaring across the country. We listen to music. We read books and newspapers. We sleep and dream. If you are like me, you look at the cloud formations and listen to Mozart's Clarinet Concerto in A major. Maybe you talk to your neighbors. 
 You are free to think and to reflect on existence and on your own small role in it. You are free to have long thoughts and memories of high school and college and the first time you met your future spouse.
 Then, the airplane lands. Cellphones and P.D.A.'s snap into action. Long rows of lights light up on tiny little screens. These are people we absolutely have to talk to. Voice messages pour in, telling of children who got speeding tickets, of margin calls, of jobs offered and lost. The bonds of obligation, like handcuffs, are clapped back onto our wrists, and we shuffle off to the servitude of our jobs and our mundane tasks. A circuit is completed: the passengers who were human beings a few moments earlier become part of an immense, all-engulfing machine of communication and control. Human flesh and spirit become plastic and electronic machinery.
 What if we didn't have cellphones or P.D.A.'s? We would still have duties and families and bosses, but they would not be at our heels, yipping at us constantly, barking at us to do this or that or worry about this or that. We would have some moat of time and space around ourselves. Not now.
 Consider another example: Walk down the Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan, between Central Park South and 45th Street. Almost every man and woman is on the phone or scanning the screen of a BlackBerry. No one looks at anyone else (except me; I stare openly and voraciously). It is as if each person were in a cocoon of electrons and self-obsession and obligation. Each of these people might as well be wearing a yoke around his neck. 
 There is no community here -- or on the streets of any other city. Beverly Hills, my home, is far worse. There, people are hermetically sealed off from one another, not taking in the air or the stupendous buildings or the sky or just the miracle of confronting the earth as it is.
 Or consider our beloved young people. I see them in Beverly Hills, in Malibu, among magnificent homes, next to the mighty Pacific, walking along avenues of mansions and towering palm trees. They walk in rows of three, each on a cellphone, not even talking to the people next to her.
 I keep thinking of my happiest moments of youth, walking along Sligo Creek Parkway in Silver Spring, Md., coming home from Parkside Elementary School (long ago closed) or along Dale Drive, coming home from Montgomery Blair High School. I could smell the leaves burning in the late fall, think the long thoughts that young people are supposed to have, and dream of my adult life, when I would have the love of a great woman and a Corvette. Those were moments of power.
 Now, there is no thought or reverie. There is nothing but gossip and making plans to shop or watch television. The cellphone and the P.D.A. have basically replaced thought. When I was a young White House speech writer, we communed with one another and otherwise read and wrote quietly in our offices. We had mental space. No more.
 I spent much of the summer in my beloved Sandpoint, Idaho, far north in the Panhandle, overlooking Lake Pend Oreille. People there still have some freedom of thought. They walk along the streets without phones. They ride in their boats and water-ski or fish without any talking over the airwaves. They talk to one another. They look up at the sky. Children line up to swing on a rope over Sand Creek and then drop into the creek. Businesspeople walk to their appointments, greeting the people they see, not talking to a small plastic box. In other words, they are connected to the glorious Bonner County sky and water and land, and, most of all, connected to their own ruminations. 
 WHAT would we do if cellphones and P.D.A.'s disappeared? We would be forced to think again. We would have to confront reality. My own life is spent mostly with men and women of business. I have been at this for a long time now, and what I have seen of the loss of solitude and dignity is terrifying among those who travel and work, or even who stay still and work. They are slaves to connectedness. Their work has become their indentured servitude. Their children and families are bound to the same devices, too.
 But try a day without that invasion of your privacy. Or a week. You will be shocked at what you discover. It's called life. It's called nature. It's called getting to know yourself. I have a close friend who is in prison. He used to be imprisoned by his P.D.A. He has many stories, but the most haunting one is about how, without his phone, without his P.D.A., he has come to know, for the first time, who he is.
 Will the rest of us ever get the chance? Will we ever throw away the chains that go ''ping'' in our pocket? Or have we irrevocably become machines ourselves? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); SMARTPHONES (76%); CHILDREN (72%); FAMILY (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



574 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CROWD FUNDING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: A Different Way to Pay for the News You Want

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
You think your local water supply is polluted. But you're getting the runaround from local officials, and you can't get your local newspaper to look into your concerns. What do you do?
 A group of journalists say they have an answer. You hire them to investigate and write about what they find.
 The idea, which they are calling ''community-funded journalism,'' is now being tested in the San Francisco Bay area, where a new nonprofit, Spot Us, is using its Web site, spot.us, to solicit ideas for investigative articles and the money to pay for the reporting. But the experiment has also raised concerns of journalism being bought by the highest bidder. 
 The idea is that anyone can propose a story, though the editors at Spot Us ultimately choose which stories to pursue. Then the burden is put on the citizenry, which is asked to contribute money to pay upfront all of the estimated reporting costs. If the money doesn't materialize, the idea goes unreported.
 ''Spot Us would give a new sense of editorial power to the public,'' said David Cohn, a 26-year-old Web journalist who received a $340,000, two-year grant from the Knight Foundation to test his idea. ''I'm not Bill and Melinda Gates, but I can give $10. This is the Obama model. This is the Howard Dean model.''
 Those campaigns revolutionized politics by using the power of the Web to raise small sums from vast numbers of people, making average citizens feel a part of the process in a way they had not felt before. In the same way, Spot Us hopes to empower citizens to be part of a newsgathering enterprise that, polls show, many mistrust and regard as both biased and elitist.
 Other enterprises have found success with this approach, which, in the Internet age, has become known as ''crowdfunding.'' This financing model takes its name from crowdsourcing, a method for using the public, typically via the Internet, to supply what employees and experts once did: information, research and development, T-shirt designs, stock photos, advertising spots. In crowdsourcing, the people supply the content; in crowdfunding, they supply the cash. 
 Charities have used crowdfunding, not necessarily under that name, for years. And one Hollywood studio, Brave New Worlds, is financing its movies by soliciting people over the Internet to pay for them before they are made. 
 The Spot Us experiment comes, not coincidentally, as newspapers around the country lay off reporters and editors by the hundreds and scale back their coverage to cope with a financial crisis brought about, in no small measure, by the rise of the Internet. Another experimental venture, Pro Publica, a nonprofit group led by Paul Steiger, a former managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, is being bankrolled by several major foundations to pursue investigative projects that it will then offer to newspapers and magazines.
 Spot Us plans to post its articles on its Web site and give them to newspapers that want to publish them. If a newspaper wants exclusive rights to an article, the paper will have to pay for it.
 Critics say the idea of using crowdfunding to finance journalism raises some troubling questions. For example, if a neighborhood with an agenda pays for an article, how is that different from a tobacco company backing an article about smoking? (Spot Us limits the amount any one contributor can give to no more than 20 percent of the cost of the story.) 
 But Jeff Howe, a contributing editor at Wired Magazine whose book ''Crowdsourcing: Why the Power of the Crowd is Driving the Future of Business'' is being published this month said: ''It's not like the crowd is killing the newspaper. Lots of things are killing the newspaper. The crowd is at once a threat to newsrooms, but it's also one of several strategies that could help save the newspapers.''
 In an early test of its concept, Spot Us solicited ideas on its Web site and raised $250 for an article examining whether California can meet its ethanol demand. That might not pay the weekly phone bill for a lot of reporters. But for its newest project, Spot Us has raised nearly all of the $2,500 it says it will need to fact-check political ads in the coming local elections in San Francisco. ''We need 12 more people to donate $25,'' the site said on Friday.
 Jay Rosen, a professor of journalism at New York University who is working with Mr. Cohn and who began his own experimental journalism site last year using the public's collaboration in news gathering, Assignment Zero (zero.newassignment.net), has been a leading critic of the traditional model of reporting. Now, with the industry's financial troubles, he may have a more receptive audience.
 ''The business model is broken,'' he said. ''We're at a point now where nobody actually knows where the money is going to come from for editorial goods in the future. My own feeling is that we need to try lots of things. Most of them won't work. You'll have a lot of failure. But we need to launch a lot of boats.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); CROWDSOURCING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (77%); CHARITIES (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%); MELINDA GATES (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



575 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Auction Prices Stay Strong

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
THE cooling economy brought uncertainty to a week of vintage car sales around Monterey, Calif., just as it had raised questions in January at major Arizona auctions. But prices held steady again. 
 A relative newcomer, Gooding & Company, was again the leader, topping its 2007 total by $61 million. Bonhams & Butterfields doubled its sales to $22 million.
 A much-watched car, the 1958 Chrysler Diablo concept, did not sell despite a $1.2 million bid at the RM auction. But Gooding's $7.92 million sale of a 1937 Bugatti Type 37SC Atalante was a North American auction record.
 Even the lower end of the market showed vitality as excellent examples of relatively inexpensive cars brought at least market-correct prices in most cases, and sometimes more. 
 Here are results of sales previewed in this section on Aug. 10. Prices include the buyer's premium, an additional commission to the auction house.
 1967 Porsche 912 Targa
 SOLD FOR: $35,200 at RM 
 WHAT IT MEANS: Although well under the estimate, this was a strong price. Two years ago, this car would probably have struggled to reach $20,000.
 1969 Alfa Romeo GT Veloce
 SOLD FOR: $44,000 at Gooding 
 WHAT IT MEANS: A lovely car with extensive documentation that quite possibly set a world record for this desirable model. 
 1953 Jaguar XK120M 
 SOLD FOR: $74,750 at Bonhams & Butterfields
 WHAT IT MEANS: This car sold for well over the high estimate ($60,000) to a shrewd dealer. A sure sign that these pretty Jaguar coupes are undervalued. 
 1951 FORD WOODY WAGON
 SOLD FOR: $29,000 at Kruse
 WHAT IT MEANS: It just goes to show that even in the supercharged atmosphere of Monterey, bargains can be found.
 1957 Ford Thunderbird
 SOLD FOR: $48,400 at Russo & Steele
 WHAT IT MEANS: This very pretty T-Bird sold near the high end of the estimate. It was the right car at the right auction.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about collector-car auctions in and around Pebble Beach, Calif., misstated the results for one auction house, Gooding & Company. Sales at its auction were $64 million this year, an increase of about $3 million -- not $61 million. The article also misidentified the car that sold for a North American auction record; it was a 1937 Bugatti Type 57SC Atalante, not a Type 37SC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORTS CARS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



576 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A New Play And Much Else To Worry About

BYLINE: By ERIK PIEPENBURG

 BODY:
NICKY SILVER is visibly anxious. About what, he's not sure.
 ''I worry about everything,'' he said one recent afternoon in a rehearsal room at Playwrights Horizons. ''Everything, everything, everything, everything, everything. I worry about things that have no relationship to me whatsoever.''
 Such agita has been a staple of Mr. Silver's plays (''The Food Chain,'' ''Pterodactyls,'' ''Fat Men in Skirts''), which find humor and import in substance abuse, disease, incest, rape and other horrors. 
 The plays of Mr. Silver (who says his age is ''over 40, not yet 50'') had their greatest success Off Broadway in the mid-1990s. In his review of ''Raised in Captivity'' in 1995 in The New York Times, Ben Brantley called Mr. Silver ''a strong, wonderfully idiosyncratic voice.'' Since then the hoopla has quieted; his last full production in New York, in 2004, was ''Beautiful Child'' (a play Mr. Brantley called ''a symbol-laden, poetic exercise that never achieves dramatic weight or credibility''). Mr. Silver's new play, ''Three Changes,'' starring Dylan McDermott and Maura Tierney, started previews Friday for a Sept. 18 opening at Playwrights Horizons.
 Mr. Silver sat down with Erik Piepenburg to talk about anger management and getting the mother out of his plays. These are excerpts from that conversation. Mr. Silver narrates a look at some of his past shows in an audio slide show available at nytimes.com/theater.
 Critical Response
 I cannot imagine I will do this long enough for me to have no emotional response to public response. It's very, very painful when writers write mean things about you. That's just the way it is. I'm trying not to read reviews. But I have read them in the past. 
 As a writer it's different than as an actor. They have to go out and do it the next night. A, my work is done, and B, sometimes for economic reasons you have to at least know the temperature of the water. How much can you ask for the foreign rights, things like that. I just go around from country to country with my hat in my hand and hope for the best.
 Growing Up
 I'm very different from the person I was when I wrote plays like ''Fat Men in Skirts.'' I'm much less angry than I was at that stage in my life. I've certainly grown in some ways. I was angry about many things. I was angry about imagined slights in my childhood and my place in the world. If you look at a play like ''Pterodactyls,'' that's a very, very angry play. 
 Then I became a little more forgiving for a little while. Now I think I'm probably a little less forgiving, but I'm not quite as angry as I was then. You grow, you age, you get tired. It's exhausting being angry. I think I've come to value human beings more than I did. I think I thought art was more important, and I don't. I think people are more important.
 Job Security
 I am disproportionately lucky in that I get to do something I want to be doing with my life. I could be digging ditches, I could be in Iraq -- well, I don't think they'd have me in Iraq -- I could be in the armed forces. I could have a very unpleasant life. Most people don't get to pick how they want to spend their life, and I've gotten to pick how I want to spend my life. 
 The worst day ever that a playwright will have is better than the best day many people get to have. The idea that I would complain about anything is so hideous and embarrassing, I ought not to do it.
 Mother Figures
 I used to write a lot of mother characters. I don't write so many mother characters anymore. As I age I get farther away from that, obviously, from my own identity as a child, and more into my own identity as a human being in the world. Having read ''The Food Chain's'' mother and Grace in ''Pterodactyls'' ... and ''Fat Men in Skirts,'' where the young man rapes his mother -- which is, I swear, fiction -- people think I must have a mother who is quite colorful and scary. She is colorful, but she's not really scary. She's fine. She's a nice little lady now. She's tired. Life is so long. I am so exhausted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicky Silver on the stage at Playwrights Horizons, where his new play, ''Three Changes,'' is in previews, headed toward a Sept. 18 opening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



577 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: English Lessons

BYLINE: By MATT WEILAND. 
Matt Weiland is the deputy editor of The Paris Review and the editor, with Sean Wilsey, of the forthcoming ''State by State: A Panoramic Portrait of America.'' He spent four years in London as the deputy editor of Granta.

 BODY:
THE ANGLO FILES
 A Field Guide to the British
 By Sarah Lyall
 289 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95
 It may be a truism that Britain and America are two nations divided by a common language, but it's truer to say that the two nations are united by language and divided by everything else. These differences -- of manners, mores, assumptions, expectations -- are the subject of ''The Anglo Files,'' by Sarah Lyall, a reporter for The New York Times. A New Yorker by origin and temperament, Lyall married an Englishman (the editor and writer Robert McCrum) and moved to London in the mid-1990s. ''The Anglo Files'' collects and expands on Lyall's dispatches from her adopted home in the decade and a half since then. The result is what she calls a ''field guide to the British.'' 
 Lyall is a first-rate reporter, and her book has all the hallmarks of her journalism: it is warm, blunt, confessional, companionable. Which is to say: it is very American. The country she describes, ''that oldest and most charismatic of nation-states,'' as the writer Jan Morris once called it, is cold, private, oblique to the point of opacity and reticent to the point of silence. Which is to say: it is very British. The book's charm lies in the collision of these two facts. 
 Lyall organizes ''The Anglo Files'' around lean case studies of British institutions (Parliament, cricket, drink) and traits (love of liberty and animals, obsession with the weather). She recounts, for example, the 2003 battle on the Hebridean island of North Uist between hedgehog lovers and wading-bird enthusiasts over an invasion of hedgehogs, which eat the birds' eggs. Lyall makes plain not just the passion of British animal lovers, but their organizational zeal: Scottish Natural Heritage, the British Hedgehog Preservation Society, Uist Hedgehog Rescue and the Uist Wader Project fought for years before agreeing the alien hedgehogs should be airlifted back to the mainland rather than killed. 
 And Lyall's report on the 1998 parliamentary debate over the Blair government's proposal to rid the House of Lords of hereditary peers captures that body's sketch-comedy lunacy: the ''byzantine rules, archaic customs, superfluous pageantry and doddering legislators.'' She makes fun of the aristocratic names (like the 22nd Earl of Shrewsbury, otherwise known as Charles Henry John Benedict Crofton Chetwynd Chetwynd-Talbot) and marvels that ''sometimes the debate had the tenor of a late-night conversation in a college dormitory during that precious window of time after the pot has been smoked but before the pizza has arrived.'' (Though this is a metaphor from the wrong side of the Atlantic: the British stoner's munchie of choice is not pizza, but ''chips'' or the ubiquitous doner kebab.) 
 Throughout, Lyall expresses an amused bewilderment at British ways: the disinclination to fully rinse dishes, the willingness to picnic or play in even the ugliest weather, the ''mixture of rudeness and politeness'' in personal relations, the genius for eccentricity. ''Many of the unkind cliches about British dental care,'' she writes, are ''dead accurate.'' In fact, in her telling, many of the cliches -- unkind and less so -- about British everything are true: their teeth are crooked, their homes are drafty, their men ''harbor erotic fantasies about former prime minister Margaret Thatcher.'' Her book is not a war on cliche but a brokered peace: an affectionate, joshing effort to understand and explain the British from beak to tail feather. 
 Though some crown jewels of contemporary Britain make an appearance -- the incomparable Alan Bennett, the indispensable Private Eye -- Lyall spends too much time on iconic British figures we already know too much about: the queen, Prince Charles, Diana, assorted other royals, the actor Hugh Grant, the footballer David Beckham, the adventurer Ranulph Fiennes. Better are her accounts of ordinary Englishmen: Vincent Bethell, a libertarian from Coventry so set in his beliefs that he refuses to wear clothes; an anonymous Londoner so exercised by the injustice of having his car wheel booted by the police that he takes to dressing up as a superhero called Angle-Grinder Man, after the type of saw he uses, vigilante style, to free other cars he feels to be unjustly penalized. 
 Lyall is at her tart, observant best when incorporating her own experiences. At the cricket ground: ''Learning about cricket in middle age is, like studying Mandarin, an effort best left to scholars, optimists and members of the Foreign Service.'' Or at a book party: ''The conversation . . . was so much better than it would have been in New York. There was no chatter on the topics of My Therapeutic Epiphany, for instance, or My Hamptons Traffic Nightmare. No one was bragging about his accomplishments or being earnest about her problems. . . . They were dropping the sort of witty offhand remarks that make listening to Britons in full humorous mode one of life's great pleasures.'' ''The Anglo Files'' is in part a masked account of how Lyall came to feel, if not quite comfortable living in Britain and raising a family there, at least no more uncomfortable than the British themselves. She describes the changes that prove she is ''beginning to adjust to life in Britain'': she kisses both cheeks, uses ''one'' in the first-person singular and tries ''to be less boisterous and not wave my arms around so much.'' 
 All of this yields a cartoon Britain: pint glass raised, flies undone, cheeks flushed in the dull sun, forever mooning France. But even the broadest cartoons reveal deep truths, as wily British cartoonists from James Gillray to Steve Bell and Martin Rowson have been proving for centuries (though the book jacket, featuring the queen as a tea bag, goes no deeper than its paper stock). And a nation's jokes may be the clearest window on its soul. Take this one, as Lyall tells it: ''Two men . . . drink pint after pint together in the pub, companionably silent. A few hours pass. On his 10th pint, the first man raises his glass and says, 'Cheers!' The second man glares at him. 'Look,' he says, 'did you come here to talk, or to drink?' '' 
 Still, for all its good cheer, I can't help feeling that ''The Anglo Files'' doesn't capture enough of the richness of the country it describes. Britain today feels like a dynamic, messy society in the midst of a long and tense argument with itself. I wish Lyall's book had more to say about the extraordinary effects, psychological as much as economic, of ongoing deindustrialization; about Britain's surprisingly resilient sense of regional identity; about its continued decline in international power and loss of national self-confidence; and, most of all, about the effects of mass immigration. On the bus in central London one often encounters more speakers of Bengali, Polish, Slovene, Spanish, Vietnamese and Yoruba than of English. This is a nation to which more than one million people from Eastern Europe alone have migrated since 2004. Millions of pints of Lech and Tyskie beer, the leading Polish brands, are now sold in Britain each year. It won't be long before England has a Polish-born M.P. or a Polish-born soccer player on the national team: a bird as British as a house sparrow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA WOLFE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); CASE STUDIES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); ANIMALS (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); BIRDS (62%); STUDENT HOUSING (60%); MAMMALS (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (79%)

TITLE: Anglo Files, The (Book)>; Anglo Files, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



578 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3087 words

HEADLINE: Ruins of an American Dream

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: MERCED, Calif. 

 BODY:
 ELLIE WOOTEN, the likable mayor of this likable Central Valley city, is on her way to the office when her cellphone rings. A constituent wants her mortgage payments reduced, and is hoping that the mayor has some clout with her lender.
 Although Merced has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country, this borrower isn't in such dire straits. She's not even behind on her mortgage. But her oldest daughter is turning 18, which means an end to $500 a month in child support. She just wants a better deal. 
 The mayor hangs up and shrugs: ''It's a surprise her daughter is turning 18? You'd think she could have planned ahead.''
 But hardly anyone in Merced planned very far ahead. 
 Not the city, which enthusiastically approved the creation of dozens of new neighborhoods without pausing to wonder if it could absorb the growth. 
 Certainly not the developers. They built 4,397 new homes in those neighborhoods, some costing half a million dollars, without asking who in a city of only 80,000 could afford to buy them all.
 Obviously not the speculators turned landlords, who thought that they could get San Francisco rents in a working-class agricultural city ranked by the American Lung Association as having some of the worst air in the nation.
 And, sadly, not the local folk who moved up and took on more debt than they could afford. They believed -- because who was telling them differently? -- that the good times would be endless.
 ''Owning a home is the American dream,'' says Jamie Schrole, a Merced real estate agent. ''Everybody was just trying to live out their dream.''
 The belief that this dream could be achieved with no risk, no worry and no money down was at the center of the American romance with real estate in the early years of this decade, and not just in Merced. 
 How long will the economy have to pay the price for that illusion? The experience of Merced, which rose higher and fell faster than nearly anywhere else, suggests that recovery from the national real estate debacle will be painful and protracted.
 In the three years since housing peaked here, the median sales price has fallen by 50 percent. There are thousands of foreclosures on the market. The asking prices on those properties are so low that competitive bidding, a hallmark of the boom, is back. 
 But almost no homeowner can afford to sell. If you cannot go as low as ''the foreclosure price'' -- the cost of a comparable bank-owned house -- real estate agents say you might as well not even bother listing your home.
 And so most people do not: three out of four existing-home sales in Merced County are now foreclosures, the highest percentage in the state, according to DataQuick Information Systems. The only group for whom selling makes sense, real estate agents here say, are the elderly entering assisted-living facilities, who often have decades of appreciation built into their home's value.
 As Merced goes, so might go much of the nation. With as many as 2.5 million homes in the United States entering foreclosure this year and, at best, sales of only five million existing houses, the foreclosure price is becoming the rule in many areas. In Los Angeles County, whose 10 million people make it the most populous county in the United States, a third of the sales are foreclosures.
 Local markets will not truly begin to recover until their foreclosures are absorbed, but just as few in Merced saw reasons for caution at the height of the boom, hardly anyone is optimistic now. Bank repossessions are accelerating as overleveraged owners see the value of their properties sink. Merced County had a record 523 foreclosures in July, quadruple the rate of a year earlier, according to DataQuick. 
 The repossessions are accelerating as overleveraged owners see the value of their properties sink and can find no way out.
 Beverly Red, the woman who called the mayor to get a better deal, says she started working months ago to renegotiate her loan into something she could better afford on her receptionist's salary. No one takes her seriously, she says, because she is not behind on her payments, which, of course, is exactly what she is trying to avoid. 
 ''This has been my home for 10 years,'' says Ms. Red, a divorced mother of three. ''It won't be good for me, or my neighbors, or the bank, or Merced, if I lose it. Yet that's where I'm headed. It's very frustrating.''
 THE boom here allowed some people to become rich overnight and gave many more the idea that they could do it, too. Ms. Schrole, a single mother of four, succumbed to temptation too late: she bought a home as an investment, sold her own home, bought a much more expensive one, and lost both. ''I was stupid,'' she says. ''I didn't get in until things started to tank.''
 Ms. Schrole is in bankruptcy. Other homeowners are taking their declining fortunes into their own hands. On a recent Sunday evening, an extended family of a dozen children, teenagers and adults is unloading a U-Haul into a house in a two-year-old subdivision called Summer Creek. The patriarch takes a break from wrestling with a refrigerator to explain he has abandoned his house a few miles away and is now renting this nearly-new five-bedroom.
 The result, he says happily, is a drop in his monthly housing bill to $1,200 from $3,400. Somewhere a lender is recording yet another foreclosure.
 Businesses in Merced are struggling. Downtown buildings are festooned with ''for lease'' signs. Unemployment, consistently high here, rose to 12.1 percent in July.
 Among those trying to adapt to this miserable new time is the mayor. Mrs. Wooten, 74, has been selling real estate for three decades. In the old days, she worked for people selling their boom-inflated homes and moving into something better. Now she mostly represents banks, selling their foreclosures. She has 27 at the moment.
 In her windowless city office, she takes a call from a man in Seattle who is interested in a 1947 home in bad repair in a bad neighborhood, but which has a large yard for his dogs. 
 In November 2005, the house sold for $126,000. The bank, which took it back last spring, is asking $59,000. The Seattle man offers $40,000. 
 The mayor says the lender is not desperate enough to take that big a haircut. ''Not going to happen,'' she says. ''Not this year.'' She laughs. ''Call me in January and I'll let you know.'' Mrs. Wooten is wearing a red shirt that says, ''Merced: Invest in California's Future.'' Which is pretty much how all the trouble began.
 Starting in 2000, investors came over the mountains from San Francisco, up Interstate 5 from Los Angeles and out of the woodwork from many a surrounding hamlet. Over the next five years, prices in Merced rose 142 percent, a growth rate that ranked it in the top five communities in the country, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. 
 One thing above all drew the investors: the prospect of a University of California campus on the edge of Merced, the first new campus in the state system in 40 years. They envisioned something resembling Davis, another Central Valley university town. 
 The University of California, Davis, however, has more than 30,000 students and is within easy reach of San Francisco and Sacramento. U.C. Merced, which opened in 2005, has fewer than 2,000 students and isn't near much except Modesto. Instead of students or professors renting their houses, speculators say, they had welfare recipients or no one. 
 Many in Merced blame out-of-town buyers, who at the peak made up more than a quarter of the local market, for their current woes.
 Now there are investors again. Mark Seivert, an accountant who lives in the neighboring town of Atwater, didn't buy anything during the boom. Anyone, he says, ''could have figured out that too much inventory and not enough bodies was a recipe for disaster.'' 
 This summer, the numbers are sweet. He is working on a deal for a short sale, in which a lender agrees to let a house go for less than it is owed in return for getting the property off its books immediately.
 Mr. Seivert is going after a house that the owners bought 13 years ago for $86,000 and refinanced six times, taking advantage of rising values to get cash that, in part, they spent on the house. It has a pool with a small waterfall, a TV room in the converted garage, a deluxe outdoor barbecue setup and a kitchen with all the latest gadgets. 
 The owners, who owe $350,000, can no longer make their mortgage payments. Mr. Seivert is negotiating to buy the house for $170,000 and then rent it back to the couple, who have jobs in the area. They will pay $1,100 instead of their current $2,600 a month. 
 ''This could be a win-win,'' the accountant says. ''In four or five years, when their credit is better and the market has recovered, I'll sell the house back to them.''
 Longtime renters are also seizing the moment. Sally Johnson just bought a house that had been foreclosed at the edge of Bellevue Ranch, a huge master-planned community north of town. She paid $164,900, half the price the previous owners paid two years ago. 
 The market is ''probably going to go lower,'' says Ms. Johnson, who works at a local jewelry store. But time is on her side: She got a 30-year fixed-rate loan. The landscapers will be by shortly to breathe new life into her golden lawn.
 Next door is Sheng Lee, who bought at the top with a ''pick a payment'' loan, which allows borrowers to make less than their fully amortized payments, but only for a few years. Since Mr. Lee, a high school aide, doesn't have enough equity to refinance, he now needs a loan modification or a miracle. ''I'll try my best to pay my mortgage, but if not I'll have no choice to leave like the other people,'' he says. 
 Mr. Lee harbors no bitterness that his new neighbor got a slightly smaller house for half the price. ''It's her luck. Why would I be mad at her?'' he asks. He brought her fried rice and noodles as a house-warming gift.
 Another neighbor, Van Lewis, fits somewhere in between Mr. Lee and Ms. Johnson. He also bought two years ago, but says he is in a position to ride out the slump. ''You have to plan for the long term,'' he says. ''If you don't, the short term can kill you.'' In any case, he adds, he has ''too much stuff'' to ever go back to an apartment.
 Opposite their houses is an immense scrubby field. Until recently, it was overgrown, and Mr. Lewis says he has seen evidence of fires started by youths or vagrants. ''There were supposed to be stores and a fire station over there,'' he says with more resignation than anger. ''We could all march down to city hall and picket, but what's really going to happen with that?''
 Things could be worse. Crime is up only marginally. There has been no major upswing in homelessness; the theory around city hall is that foreclosed families are either renting or have left the area. 
 Yet things may well become worse soon. During the good times, Merced built up a $17 million rainy-day fund. Now the city has a revenue shortfall. ''We'll bridge that gap by using the reserves,'' says James Marshall, the city manager, ''but over time the bridge ain't long enough.''
 FLIPPERS and speculators who had nothing invested in Merced beyond money were the first to abandon the community. 
 Many real estate agents and loan brokers, their customers gone, soon followed. So did commuters who thought they could spend four hours a day making round trips to the San Francisco Bay Area. And the spinners, young men and women hired by the developers to stand at intersections and literally point the way to the new developments, disappeared.
 Now developers are pulling out. 
 Pacific Pride, a Central Valley developer, announced plans to build a 124-house neighborhood but gave up after paving streets and installing a wall as a partition from the railroad tracks. Graffiti runs the length of the wall. The site was declared a public nuisance by the city last winter. Messages left on a voice-mailbox belonging to Pacific Pride were not returned. 
 Moraga, built by Lakemont Homes of Roseville, Calif., was designed to include 500 luxury homes that ranged in size up to 3,500 square feet, boasting such amenities as butler pantries, double ovens, master suites with walk-in closets, five-foot-long soaking tubs and three-car garages.
 The subdivision centerpiece, completed first, is an expansive and pleasant park, with two baseball fields, basketball courts, a picnic area and children's playground. All that's missing are many houses. Only about 24 were built. One was just listed as a foreclosure for $219,000, a deep discount to the already discounted price of $310,000 for that model. The Lakemont agent says that there have been no sales for a long time. 
 At least Lakemont is still keeping up appearances. At Gardenstone, part of the Bellevue Ranch development, the doors of the sales office are covered with plywood, as if a big storm were coming. A few blocks away is Riverstone, probably the bleakest Merced subdivision. A dozen houses were started here and then the construction workers went away. The wooden frames have been bleaching in the sun and sand for more than a year.
 Both Gardenstone and Riverstone are the work of Crosswinds Communities, a developer based in Novi, Mich., that is owned and run by Bernie Glieberman. Reached at his office, Mr. Glieberman is asked if he and his fellow developers perhaps got a bit -- 
 ''No question,'' he interrupts enthusiastically. ''I would never deny we all got greedy. Everyone was setting records. Nobody was there to take away the punch bowl.''
 He was selling houses for $300,000. That means a buyer would have needed a household income of about $100,000 to comfortably make the payments. But Merced's per capita income of $23,864 ranks among the lowest for metropolitan areas in the country. ''None of us paid much attention,'' Mr. Glieberman says. 
 Yet he says the real problem was not over-eager developers but underhanded buyers -- which is to say investors.
 ''We didn't know we were selling to speculators,'' the builder says. ''They swore they were going to live in the houses.'' He says he found out otherwise only after the plunge began and people started trying to get refunds on deposits of as much as $60,000. 
 Some said that they had lost their jobs, others that there were illnesses in their families. And some said they should get a refund because, as investors instead of owner-occupants, they should never have been allowed to buy the house in the first place. By then, it didn't matter. Crosswinds didn't refund any deposits.
 Mr. Glieberman says that he intends to come back and finish those houses, that he is confident Merced will turn around.
 For that to happen, banks will have to become more willing to lend. At the moment, however, they're growing ever more reluctant.
 Consider the experience of a couple moving to Merced last month from a nearby town. Their mortgage broker set up a Federal Housing Administration loan for them, which meant that it would be guaranteed by the federal government. 
 To finance the loan, the broker went to the HSBC Mortgage Corporation. At the last minute, HSBC said no, giving reasons that had nothing to do with the couple's finances or their new house. 
 ''Property is unacceptable due to high foreclosure rate and volatility of subject market,'' HSBC informed the couple via fax. Apparently, even a government guarantee wasn't enough.
 Such emphatic declarations bode ill for a recovery, says Robert Gnaizda, general counsel of the Greenlining Institute, a housing advocacy group. ''If a few institutions take the position that prices in the Central Valley are still excessive and they need to wait to finance houses there, you'll have the total collapse of the market.''
 A spokeswoman for HSBC says it has financed 36 mortgages in Merced County this year but declined to comment on the fax.
 THE real estate boom, while it lasted, made Merced prosperous. Now the question is what can make it thrive once more, presumably on a more sustainable basis.
 The university is an asset that will take time to develop. This is excellent farm country, but these days agriculture is not an occupation that creates a broad middle class. 
 Wal-Mart Stores is proposing to build a distribution center in Merced, but there is a movement against it among residents who say that trucks shuttling around the complex will worsen the breathing problems of the city's children. Merced County has one of the highest percentages of asthmatic children in the state, according to a 2001 state health survey. Many children carry inhalers to help them breathe. 
 In the midst of all the wreckage caused by the real estate boom and bust, some think that they have found a way forward: build more houses, thousands and thousands of them.
 On the western edge of Merced County, near the Diablo Range that separates the Central Valley from the Pacific Coast, is a stretch of empty land that a coalition of landowners has wanted to build on for years. The plan calls for the eventual construction of a city of 16,000 houses called the Villages of Laguna San Luis. 
 In many ways, the idea makes sense. The pass over the mountains is winding and slow, but if a proposed high-speed train is ever built, the Villages could end up being a bedroom community for San Jose. By 2025, California is projected to grow to 44 million people from the current 37 million. They will need somewhere to live.
 This summer, the Villages came up for a vote with the Merced County Planning Commission. Cindy Lashbrook, a commissioner who is a fruit-and-nut farmer, says the project was basically well thought out. But all the cars that came with all those new houses would cause even more pollution. And in a state suffering from drought, where would the water come from? 
 ''We have to stop thinking that more growth is always the answer,'' Ms. Lashbrook says. ''We have more housing than we need. We need jobs.''
 She voted against the project, which faltered on a 2-to-2 split, with one commissioner absent. That meant supporters could bring it up again before the full commission, which they did. They won the second round, 4 to 1.
 Rudy Buendia, the commissioner who dissented along with Ms. Lashbrook on the first vote, was in favor the second time around. Reached on his cellphone, Mr. Buendia said he was out hanging drywall on a construction project and did not have time to talk. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Merced, Calif., frames of houses in the Riverstone development have bleached in the sun for more than a year. Three-fourths of existing-home sales in Merced County are foreclosures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ellie Wooten, the mayor of Merced, Calif., and a real estate agent, at a foreclosed home that she herself had listed.
Sheng Lee, Sally Johnson and Van Lewis are neighbors in Merced. The three have experienced different facets of its housing boom and bust. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU6) CHARTS: WORTH LESS THAN WHAT YOU PAID FOR IT: In California, big numbers of homeowners now find themselves with negative equity, including a huge 85 percent in the Merced metropolitan area. Merced's prices peaked in 2005 and fell swiftly, and foreclosures have soared. (CHART BY HANNAH FAIRFIELD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(Sources: Zillow
 DataQuick Information Systems) (pg.BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



579 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A Spring Awakening for Human Rights

BYLINE: By JIRI PEHE. 
Jiri Pehe, who was the political adviser to former President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic from 1997 to 1999, is the director of New York University in Prague.

DATELINE: Prague 

 BODY:
 FORTY years ago last week, the five Warsaw Pact countries, led by the Soviet Union, sent armored tanks into Czechoslovakia. It was to be the end of the Prague Spring, a brief period of political liberalization and cultural blossoming in Czechoslovakia, and the beginning of 21 years of Soviet oppression -- a turning point in the histories of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Yet the anniversary was marked here with some hesitation.
 At the official commemoration at Prague Castle, Vaclav Klaus, the president of the Czech Republic, gave a speech. The prime ministers of Slovakia and the Czech Republic opened an exhibition in Wenceslas Square -- where Soviet troops had clashed with the citizens of Prague in 1968 -- featuring a Soviet T-54 tank and homemade posters protesting the invasion. But most leading politicians limited themselves to brief statements. 
 Many leading thinkers here regarded the anniversary as unremarkable because they believe the Prague Spring was primarily a communist affair -- an attempt by reformers to prevail over hard-liners within the party -- and as such is of little interest to today's authentic democrats. Articles in Czech news media argued that leaders of the Czechoslovak Communist Party in 1968, including First Secretary Alexander Dubcek, were naive to think that they could sustain ''socialism with a human face.'' When they abolished censorship, tolerated artistic freedom, eased travel restrictions and allowed new civic movements to come into existence, they merely created a virus that threatened the communist system.
 But as someone who experienced the Prague Spring at the impressionable age of 13, came of age during the repressive period of ''normalization'' and, from 1981 to 1989, observed my country from exile in the United States and Germany, I recall 1968 with fondness. And I suspect that our lasting reluctance to discuss the period openly is, more than anything else, a sign that the trauma of communism is still very much alive today, despite the last 19 years that democracy has had to take root.
 The political thaw that culminated in 1968 had started in the early '60s when the communist regime eased restrictions on culture. This, in turn, encouraged intellectuals and artists to demand further liberalization. In the fall of 1967, the Congress of the Czechoslovak Writers' Union became a major political event, where writers like Milan Kundera, Ludvik Vaculik, Pavel Kohout, Ivan Klima and Vaclav Havel issued calls for greater freedom. The election of Dubcek to the highest party post was partly a reaction to this pressure. 
 Equally important was the awakening of civil society. A generation of older people who grew up in a democratic Czechoslovakia before and just after World War II joined forces with younger people who were disappointed by Stalinist communism to create a social movement. This widespread renewal of active citizenship showed that a majority of people wanted to be free and would pursue their dream, even knowing that the Kremlin would do its best to stop the movement. 
 By the end of 1968, Mr. Kundera and Mr. Havel offered opposing views of the Prague Spring's importance. Mr. Kundera argued that it was a far-reaching experiment in which the Czechs, falling back on the best traditions of their history, attempted to create a new socio-political model of democratic socialism, which would offer a higher quality of democracy, free of various ills associated with capitalism.
 Mr. Havel, who unlike Mr. Kundera had never been a communist, offered a more sober view. In his opinion, the Prague Spring was just an attempt to revive the Western-style democracy that Czechoslovakia once had. Initial developments after 1989 seemed to prove Mr. Havel right. Most Czechs and Slovaks did not want to return to what many saw as a utopian search for a third way, but instead supported a traditional democracy and market economy. 
 Today, on the other hand, almost two decades after communism, an increasing number of Czechs and Slovaks are critical of their existing democracies, which are marked by corruption, cynicism of political parties, populism and the capitalist pressure to turn citizens into consumers. Now, it is Mr. Havel who speaks critically of such social ills.
 The Prague Spring had a real impact outside Czechoslovakia. The Kremlin's decision to use brutal force to destroy the experiment had a devastating effect on the Euro-communist movement. After 1968, once powerful communist parties in France, Italy and other Western European countries gradually faded. 
 Ideas generated during the Prague Spring were a source of inspiration for Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost and perestroika in the mid-1980s. Like the Czechoslovakian leaders of 1968, Mr. Gorbachev believed that a degree of political and economic democracy could be combined with communist rule. 
 The current tendency in the Czech Republic and Slovakia to play down the Prague Spring is likely caused, in part, by feelings of shame at how easy it was for the Soviet Union to defeat the experiment, and how quickly many people reverted to collaborating with the communist regime. It is not easy to come to terms with the fact that an event that provoked so much hope could be followed by 20 years of oppression and humiliation.
 A good illustration of our conflicting attitudes toward the communist past was a recent discussion in the Czech Parliament of a the new state-run Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which is to hold and study the communist archives. In giving the institute such a complicated name, lawmakers had to define ''totalitarianism.'' In the end, they decided that totalitarianism in the Czech Republic includes the entire period from the communist takeover in 1948 to the Velvet Revolution in 1989.
 But including 1968 in the totalitarian period makes it difficult to explain how it's possible that the Prague Spring produced works of literature, film and drama more significant than anything the country has produced since the fall of communism.
 True, the invasion ushered in a humiliating period, which started with the leaders of the Prague Spring being taken to Moscow and forced to sign the Moscow Protocols, under which more than 100,000 Soviet troops were stationed in the country for an indefinite period. It continued, in the spring of 1969, with the installation of a neo-Stalinist regime led by Gustav Husak, under which all the liberal achievements of 1968 were destroyed. The ''normalization'' regime that lasted until 1989 was one of the most oppressive in Czech and Slovak history. 
 But the Prague Spring itself was a memorable interlude. The year 1968 saw upheavals elsewhere in Europe and in the United States, with young people rebelling against the establishment and searching for new models of life. The Czechoslovak experiment was part of that global movement. And like revolutions in the West, it generated ideas that survived -- especially its emphasis on human rights. A strong effort was made to build a robust civil society. Today, as the Western world seeks to revive popular interest in the democratic process, this is the Prague Spring's most important legacy. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%)

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%) CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); SLOVAKIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



580 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Furor Over New Rules To Stem Top School Pay

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
WITH annual salaries that approach and in some cases surpass $200,000, New Jersey's school superintendents have become the latest target of an effort to control spending in a state known for having among the highest taxes in the country.
 In its first comprehensive reporting on the salaries and benefits of top administrators in the state's 605 school districts, the State Department of Education took another step toward what Lucille Davy, the education commissioner, is calling a ''renewed focus on accountability and transparency.'' 
 In compliance with the School Accountability Act, the compensations of more than 3,000 school administrators statewide were posted on the Department of Education's Web site earlier this month, revealing salaries that totaled $382 million and retirement packages totaling $36.5 million for the superintendents, assistant superintendents and business administrators who fall under the reporting requirements.
 The day after they were posted, the New Jersey Association of School Administrators filed a lawsuit against the education commissioner, challenging the department's plans to oversee future superintendent contracts and limit the retirement benefits of top school administrators. The suit, filed in federal court in Trenton, seeks to invalidate the new rules, claiming they violate school administrators' constitutional rights by arbitrarily denying them equal treatment and due process. 
 Steven Edelstein, the lawyer representing the Association of School Administrators, said the new rules also create a caste system between affluent and poorer districts. Under the new regulations, which took effect on July 3, school districts are prohibited from hiring superintendents or assistant superintendents at a salary ''that isn't comparable to others in the region.'' While the lawsuit argues that the language of the rules is too vague, it also says that the state seems to want the salaries to stay within the range of other salaries paid in the same county.
 ''Let's say you have a relatively poor district in an economically depressed county and nothing is more important to them than hiring a superintendent that has been earning $225,000 in a wealthier district,'' Mr. Edelstein said. ''They can't do it under these rules. The effect is to institutionalize the stratification of these regions by economics, which is not permissible under the state constitution.'' 
 The salary data released by the state shows some of the highest salaries being paid to superintendents in some of the poorest districts. In Newark, the superintendent earns $260,728 annually; Camden's superintendent earns $220,000, while Union City's superintendent is paid $202,652. Antonio Lewis, Asbury Park superintendent, earns $193,430, and is contracted to receive a $292,416 retirement payout. In West New York Township, in Hudson County, the superintendent is paid $231,324, and three assistant superintendents earn $604,702 among them. All of these districts are state-supported Abbott districts, considered struggling by several standards.
 Mike Yaple, spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, said it made sense that the leaders of some of the poorer districts would command higher salaries.
 ''There's no question that school superintendents have a target on them,'' he said. ''When it comes to reining in costs and having more transparency, school boards do support that, but the concern is if the regulations become so draconian, it may undermine a school board's ability to get a quality person at the helm.''
 Kathryn Forsyth, spokeswoman for the Department of Education, said it was the department's policy not to comment on pending lawsuits. But in the absence of a court ruling blocking the department from going forward, she said it ''is proceeding with plans as we've laid them out.'' As for school superintendents being singled out by the education commissioner or the governor, Ms. Forsyth rejected the notion.
 ''I don't think anyone's making anyone a scapegoat,'' she said. ''It's about accountability. People should be able to see how their top school administrators are being compensated.''
 The controversy over superintendents' compensation crested earlier this summer when it was revealed that the retirement package for Barbara Trzeszkowski, the former Keansburg superintendent, totaled $740,876.
 Under the new rules, the state has moved to curtail bonuses, perks and retirement payouts and to cap buybacks on unused sick, personal and vacation days for all new or renewed contracts after Jan. 1 of this year. Under the current contracts, a total of $5.3 million has been promised to school administrators for sick and vacation day buybacks, while bonuses, insurance coverage and allowances for things like cars and computers account for $17.1 million in anticipated expense statewide. 
 Under the new regulations, county executive superintendents will be charged with reviewing and approving all new or renewed contracts for the school administrators in their county. Mr. Edelstein said this responsibility added a layer of oversight that flies in the face of what he called ''a strong tradition of home rule in New Jersey.''
 ''The commissioner of education has never assumed jurisdiction over superintendent contracts and doesn't interfere with negotiations of contracts at a local level,'' he said.
 While acknowledging that contracts like Ms. Trzeszkowski's feed into an irresistible public relations campaign, Mr. Yaple said the salaries earned by the state's top school administrators might be surprising to the public but were not out of line.
 ''It's reflective of what's happening nationally, not just in New Jersey,'' Mr. Yaple said. ''Salaries are shaped by the market and superintendents have been in high demand.''
 Mr. Edelstein compared the job with that of a chief operating officer of a major corporation.
 ''We're talking about people who are running huge operations with thousands of kids and $40- to $50- to $60 million budgets,'' Mr. Edelstein said. ''In that sense, I don't think these are unreasonable salaries at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW RULES: Lucille Davy, state education commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BRANCH PRICE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 UPPER TIER: Barbara Trzeszkowski, former Keansburg superintendent, whose retirement package helped set off the call to rein in top compensation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG HOOD/ASBURY PARK PRESS)(NJ5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (94%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); DUE PROCESS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



581 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Guiding Forces

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN M. FRIEDMAN. 
Benjamin M. Friedman is a professor of economics at Harvard University. His latest book is ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth.''

 BODY:
NUDGE
 Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness
 By Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein
 293 pp. Yale University Press. $26
 Yes, there is such a thing as common sense -- and thank goodness for that. 
 At least that's this reader's reaction to Richard Thaler and Cass Sunstein's ''Nudge,'' an engaging and insightful tour through the evidence that most human beings don't make decisions in the way often characterized (some would say caricatured) in elementary economics textbooks, along with a rich array of suggestions for enabling many of us to make better choices, both for ourselves and for society. 
 Few people will be surprised to learn that the setting in which individuals make decisions often influences the choices they make. How much we eat depends on what's served on our plate, what foods we pick from the cafeteria line depends on whether the salads or the desserts are placed at eye level, and what magazines we buy depends on which ones are on display at the supermarket checkout line. But the same tendency also affects decisions with more significant consequences: how much families save and how they invest; what kind of mortgage they take out; which medical insurance they choose; what cars they drive. Behavioral economics, a new area of research combining economics and psychology, has repeatedly documented how our apparently free choices are affected by the way options are presented to us. 
 The main insight from which Thaler and Sunstein proceed is that no decision setting is ''neutral.'' Whether it's a restaurant laying out food or a business offering its employees a list of mutual funds in its 401(k) plan or the government presenting different Medicare options, whoever presents choices must frame them in some way. And the framing will affect the decisions. Even ''small and apparently insignificant details can have major impacts on people's behavior,'' the authors write. Some ways of presenting the choices may give a gentler ''nudge'' than others, and we may think some settings are neutral only because we're so used to them. But whoever is presenting the choices will inevitably bias decisions, in one direction or another. 
 As a result, Thaler and Sunstein argue, many of the familiar arguments for why people should simply be left to make choices on their own, and especially for why government should stay strictly out of the way, have little practical force. In many important areas of choice that matter both to the individual and to the rest of us (for example, when overuse of medical care drives up our insurance premiums and our taxes), the operative question is not whether to bias people's decisions, but in which direction. 
 Thaler, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago, and Sunstein, a law professor formerly at Chicago but now at Harvard, apply this line of argument to a wide array of familiar areas: saving, borrowing, energy consumption,smoking, teenage pregnancy and many others. Along the way they present fascinating findings about how people actually make decisions, together with lots of personal advice: save more, diversify your investments, don't invest much in your employer's stock, don't pay points on mortgages, buy insurance with the biggest deductible you can afford, don't pay for extended warranties. But their main objective is to reshape public policy (Sunstein is an informal adviser to Barack Obama, who has advanced some ''Nudge''-like policy ideas), and it's clear that the suggestions they care most about apply to ways in which governments can do a better job of guiding the choices made by their citizens. The goal, in part, is to nudge people toward healthier, safer, more prosperous lives while also addressing pressing issues like environmental damage and the rising cost of health care. 
 If all this sounds paternalistic, that's because it is. Thaler and Sunstein adopt the deliberately oxymoronic label ''libertarian paternalism'' to describe their general approach. It's libertarian in that people retain the right to make their own choices: they're free to select the savings plan with the lowest projected return if that's what they really want. But the government -- or an employer, or the person in charge of laying out the food in the cafeteria -- is nonetheless nudging people in the direction that somebody thinks will make them better off. 
 The conceptual argument is powerful, and most of the authors' suggestions are common sense at its best: Set up 401(k) programs so that employees have to opt out if they want, rather than making them opt in. (At present, roughly 30 percent of employees eligible for 401(k)'s don't sign up, despite the enticement of employer matching contributions.) Do the same for organ donation. Make credit card companies offer an automatic full-payment option. Offer investment vehicles that provide automatic portfolio rebalancing. Most of these ideas work because of the human tendency, widely documented, toward what Thaler and Sunstein call ''inertia.'' Most of us just call it laziness. 
 In the end, however, ''Nudge'' is somewhat thin on practical ideas for public policy that follow from the authors' core insight. Many of the suggestions Thaler and Sunstein make, in contexts like savings and mortgages and credit cards, amount to calls for greater disclosure (what did all of those credit card fees total last year?) or for presenting information in a clearer way (to make price comparisons for mortgages easier). Surely no one except the companies making the profits would oppose more disclosure and clearer information. But we don't need behavioral economics, or libertarian paternalism, to think such proposals might be helpful. 
 And the authors occasionally strike a false note. Their recommendation to allow patients to sign away the right to sue doctors for malpractice, for example -- presumably in return for lower medical bills -- doesn't resemble the argumentation elsewhere in the book. The threat of lawsuits, they reason, gives doctors little incentive to be more careful because malpractice insurance isn't ''experience rated''; in other words, the premium charged doesn't depend on the doctor's past record as it does for, say, drivers. (Oddly, they accept the seemingly conflicting view that the threat of lawsuit is expensive because it leads doctors to prescribe unnecessary tests.) Why don't they suggest that malpractice insurance be experience rated too? 
 More important, in contrast to the many other examples they give showing how competitive markets do not necessarily work to consumers' advantage, here Thaler and Sunstein simply assume that the market for doctors' services would pass any savings along to patients. They also simply assume that if the law were changed to allow patients to give up this right, the market would still let them retain it if they wanted. But try getting a brokerage account without signing away the right to sue your broker. Under the law, it's up to brokers and their customers whether people retain that right; but no United States securities firm will take on a customer who doesn't agree in advance to refer any dispute to an industry-sponsored arbitration panel. 
 Thaler and Sunstein also seem naive in hoping that their program of libertarian paternalism will be equally appealing to those on the left and the right. Their entire line of argument -- that people frequently make decisions that are not in their own best interest, that often ''free markets and open competition will tend to exacerbate rather than mitigate the effects of human frailty,'' and especially that in many important contexts ''it is pointless to ask government simply to stand aside'' since no way of presenting decisions can truly be ''neutral'' -- is deeply subversive of standard free-market, anti-regulation, small-government thinking but supportive of many interventionist inclinations. 
 But regardless of whether Thaler and Sunstein's ideas are ideologically neutral, most of them are the essence of common sense. For that we should all applaud loudly.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); MEDICARE (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); WRITERS (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); US 401K PLANS (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Nudge (Book)>; Nudge (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



582 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: That Student Loan, So Hard to Shake

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

DATELINE: Tacoma, Wash. 

 BODY:
 MOST people struggling to pay off their student loans keep quiet about it. They do not want to acknowledge that, perhaps in a fit of naive, youthful optimism, they borrowed more than they could handle. 
 Then there is Alan Collinge, who for years has described his struggle with tens of thousands of dollars in student loan debt to anyone who will listen. He has appeared on ''60 Minutes'' criticizing Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student lender, and has been quoted in the pages of this and other newspapers attacking loan companies. 
 ''I'm sort of the complaint box for the industry,'' says Mr. Collinge, who runs a Web site called StudentLoanJustice.org out of his spartan apartment here.
 Student lending is a big business, one that has been the subject of many complaints over the past two years after revelations of questionable ties between lenders and colleges' financial aid officers. More recently, tight credit markets raised the possibility that some students might not be able to borrow to go to college in the fall. 
 But much less attention has been paid to what happens to students after they borrow. Lenders who make loans guaranteed by the federal government can more easily take steps against borrowers -- like garnishing wages and benefits -- than they can with other kinds of unsecured consumer debts. And all student loans, federally guaranteed or not, are extremely hard to get rid of in bankruptcy proceedings, more so than credit card or other debt.
 More borrowers may begin to discover the harrowing consequences of reneging on student loans in the current economy. Numbers of borrowers behind on payments and in outright default are rising for some types of loans, and the tight job market makes it harder for graduates to find jobs that let them pay off debts. At the same time, investors are pressuring lenders to raise revenue by minimizing losses. Investors also expect more revenue from those lenders that operate collection agencies. 
 To many people, the special treatment of student loans sometimes seems appropriate, but at other times unduly harsh. Usually, people do not learn just how powerfully the law protects student loans until something goes unexpectedly wrong in their lives.
 Donna Troestler, 47, who graduated from the University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh, in 1998 with a degree in biology and microbiology, was traveling to sell scientific instruments in 1999 when she suffered an injury that caused recurring problems. It took years for her to figure out what kind of work she could do, given her new health limitations; in the meantime, she deferred payments on about $23,000 in loans.
 ''I never thought in a million years that I was ever going to have a problem with working and making money,'' Ms. Troestler said. In 2002, she defaulted on her loans, which then ballooned with fees and penalties to $63,000, she said. In 2003, she found a job at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, where she still works. But then she found that her wages had been garnished, taking about $500 a month from her $2,500 take-home pay, she said.
 ''All of this was terribly embarrassing to me,'' Ms. Troestler said. Later, a man she was dating helped pay off her student debts, in 2006, but then the two split up because of tension over the loans, she said.
 IT is hard to tell how widespread repayment problems are. The overall default rate calculated by the federal Education Department was under 5 percent in 2005, the most recent data available. But that figure includes only defaults within two years of beginning repayment. 
 A 2006 study by the department's National Center for Education Statistics followed federal loan borrowers for 10 years, ending in 2003-4, and found that nearly 10 percent defaulted. (The average debt among the two-thirds of 2003-4 college graduates who use loans is about $20,000, according to the College Board.) And with more students borrowing, more students are potentially at risk.
 Garrett Mockler filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2004, after months of struggling to make payments on credit cards as well as on $40,000 in student loans. He was working multiple jobs as a teacher, dancer and choreographer in Los Angeles after earning a Master of Fine Arts in 2003. 
 His lenders wanted more than $400 a month on top of credit card debt, Mr. Mockler said. ''All my bills started piling up,'' he said. ''It was either pay one bill or pay another or not eat or not have a roof over my head.'' 
 He had to scrimp to save $200 for the bankruptcy filing. Then he emerged from bankruptcy and found that all his student loans had stuck with him. While the federal government gave him more forgiving repayment terms on his guaranteed loans, he said, the company that had made him a private, or unguaranteed, loan had no incentive to negotiate a payment plan with him because he had no way to avoid the obligation. 
 While trying to learn more about student loans and his rights in dealing with lenders, Mr. Mockler said he came across StudentLoanJustice.org, Mr. Collinge's site.
 Mr. Collinge founded a political action committee in 2007 that was named after the site. His top goal is to have the bankruptcy law changed to put limits on how and for how long lenders can pursue debtors. His organization now has about 3,000 members, many of whom have shared debt woes on the site. Over the past year, he says, he has raised just over $12,000 -- a sum that reflects his constituents' financial constraints.
 To raise awareness of student loans, he embarked last year on a trip that took him through 42 states in an effort to meet with staff members of every lawmaker on the Senate and House education committees. Money raised by his PAC has not yet covered his costs, and the R.V. he drove (and is now trying to sell) still bears scars of the trip.
 Representatives of loan companies are not fond of Mr. Collinge's tactics. He has called loan company executives at home to criticize their corporate policies, and sent the occasional profanity-laced e-mail message to lender advocates.
 ''He's had a lot of problems paying his loans back, and he's spent an awful lot of time out there talking about his problems rather than trying to pay his loans back,'' said Tom Joyce, a spokesman for Sallie Mae.
 Student loans raise serious issues, Mr. Joyce said, ''but he's just the wrong poster child.'' 
 Mr. Collinge acknowledges that at least some of the e-mail messages and phone calls he has made were inappropriate, but he maintains that the sentiments expressed were genuine. His words may simply reflect the resentment of thousands of borrowers who are too embarrassed to talk about their debts publicly.
 In conversation about anything other than student loans, Mr. Collinge, 38, comes across as laid-back and easygoing. He takes salsa and tango classes and goes bicycling in a park overlooking Puget Sound. 
 Mr. Collinge said he did not set out to be a student loan activist. But he backed himself into a corner in his research job at the California Institute of Technology in 2001 by asking for a raise. When he did not get one, he quit.
 He said he found himself underemployed and gradually overwhelmed by about $38,000 in federal student loans; his lender wouldn't grant a forbearance, he said. He had borrowed to study toward his two degrees and a certification, all in aerospace engineering, at the University of Southern California.
 He went into default in 2001, and over the next three years his debt, with interest and fees, grew to $100,000. His best shot at a job, involving work for a military contractor, vanished when his debts kept him from passing a security check, he said.
 The Education Department said in a statement Friday that it and others had tried to work with Mr. Collinge, and in February 2008 offered to waive accrued interest and fees. 
 Driven by frustrations like the security check, Mr. Collinge has devoted himself full time to learning about student loans and has supported himself with various jobs; this year he spent a few months working for a landscaping business, for example, and received an $8,000 advance for a book on student loans. He has found out what many a struggling former student found out before him: Short of paying them off, student loans are awfully hard to get rid of. 
 Without a court order, lenders -- or, more likely, collection agents -- can garnish up to 15 percent of wages of borrowers who have defaulted on federally guaranteed loans, said Deanne Loonin, a lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center in Boston. Lenders and collection agents can also intercept tax refunds, Social Security payments and even this year's stimulus checks from the government.
 ''It's really unbelievable,'' Ms. Loonin said.
 DEBTORS can shed credit card debt and other unsecured obligations through bankruptcy but can get out of student loans only if they can show ''undue hardship.'' That term is not defined by the bankruptcy code and, lawyers said, judges often take a narrow view of its meaning.
 ''The cases are so harsh in measuring what an undue hardship is that anybody who is working and maintaining any kind of home life has very little chance of discharging these things in bankruptcy,'' said Cathleen Cooper Moran, a bankruptcy lawyer in Palo Alto, Calif.
 There are some compelling reasons to make it difficult for student borrowers to get out of their debts. Lenders have no collateral, like a house or car, to seize. That makes them riskier.
 In the case of federal loans, the government is effectively subsidizing students both by guaranteeing the amounts borrowed and by setting loan terms that are usually more favorable than those of private loans. Because the government's guarantee puts taxpayer money at risk when a borrower defaults, one argument goes, bankruptcy law should hinder the cancellation of federal debts -- and it does.
 In 2005, Congress modified the bankruptcy code to make it as hard to get rid of private student loans as it is to eliminate federal loans. Private loans have been one of the fastest-growing ways for students and families to pay for college, rising to $17.1 billion in 2006-7 from $2 billion 10 years earlier, according to the nonprofit College Board. Students often use private loans to fill the gap between the cost of attendance and the funds available through federal loans and other aid.
 The argument for the change on private loans is a bit different.
 ''At the time that people graduate from school, almost everybody is technically eligible for bankruptcy because they have debts that exceed their assets,'' said Shelly Repp, general counsel at the National Council for Higher Education Loan Programs, whose members include lenders, collection agencies and guarantors. ''Why would anyone lend you money if you had the option to walk away?''
 But even Sallie Mae, a major source of private loans, is not opposed to modifying the bankruptcy code's treatment of them, said Mr. Joyce, perhaps by making it possible for students to dump debts in bankruptcy after trying for a specified number of years to pay them off.
 ''What we'd like to see is that people who have made a good-faith effort to repay their student loans, but for whatever reasons have hit a hard patch or hit a difficult stretch, that there be some flexibility,'' Mr. Joyce said. ''It may be time to look at that.''
 Perceptions of student lending have shifted sharply as tightness in credit markets has led some companies to stop making certain kinds of loans, forcing some students to switch lenders.
 Last year, reports of questionable relationships between financial aid offices and lenders cast both in an unfavorable light. Lawmakers in Washington have approved legislation intended to ban such ties and have raised the amounts that students and their families can borrow through federal programs.
 Mr. Collinge is not giving up. On a warm and sunny Thursday afternoon this month, a few members of Student Loan Justice joined him to hand out pamphlets in front of the government office building in Seattle where Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington and a member of the Senate education committee, has an office.
 ''I'm fighting the system,'' Mr. Collinge told one young passerby. The man declined to accept a pamphlet then, but when he passed by again a little later, he took one. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Collinge says he became an activist for people with student debt when he could not pay his loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
 Alan Collinge handing out pamphlets. He says he's ''sort of the complaint box'' for student loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU2) CHART: STUDENTS IN DEBT: Total student loans were nearly $80 billion last year. (Source: The College Board) (pg.BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WEB SITES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); BIOLOGY (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



583 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER RENTING A HYBRID; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: With Supplies Tight, Prices Are High

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
AS travelers continue to face sticker shock at the gas pump, more are turning to hybrid rental cars in search of savings. But with supply still limited and demand so high, these green cars are commanding a substantial premium.
 In a recent search for a weekend rental from San Francisco International Airport in August on the Avis.com site, the Nissan Altima hybrid was the most expensive vehicle -- $207.98 for a two-day trip -- more than even the sporty Ford Mustang, for $161.98, or the Pontiac Vibe, listed as an ''intermediate S.U.V.,'' for $149.98. 
 Also in San Francisco, Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, the parent company of Dollar Rent a Car and Thrifty Car Rental, charges roughly 20 percent more for the Prius than for other economy or compact cars. Hertz charges about $5 a day extra for its Green Collection, which includes 3,400 Priuses. The company says the fee covers the cost involved in making certain these cars can be reserved by make and model. 
 The high markups are largely a result of supply and demand. Dollar and Thrifty have 215 Toyota Prius hybrids, most of which are in San Francisco. That's less than 1 percent of the total United States fleet. Hertz has approximately 4,000 hybrids or about 1.5 percent of its North American fleet. Avis has about 2,500 hybrids out of roughly 375,000 vehicles in its 2008 model fleet. 
 Another issue: hybrid cars, which are also in short supply in the retail market, cost rental car companies more to buy than other vehicles. To recoup some of that cost, car rental companies charge more to customers who rent them. 
 A traveler might reason that, despite the higher base rate, renting a hybrid could still end up costing less overall when gas is factored in. But this didn't prove to be the case in a recent comparison of Hertz hybrids with economy cars by Sarah Pascarella, an associate editor at SmarterTravel.com, a Web site that offers travel advice. 
 A two-day trip from San Francisco to Yosemite National Park was $55 cheaper with the Hyundai Accent economy car, costing $139 round trip, including gas based on the American Automobile Association's online fuel cost calculator. The same trip with a Toyota Prius hybrid came to a total of $194. A trip from New York City to Cape May, N.J., cost about the same when comparing the Prius to the Accent, while the economy car was about $43 less for a trip from Seattle to Olympic National Park. 
 ''I found choosing an economy car over a hybrid was often the more economical choice,'' wrote Ms. Pascarella on SmarterTravel's Tip of the Day. 
 In some cases, even renting an S.U.V. can be cheaper than renting a hybrid. Take the San Francisco weekend rental on Avis.com. When factoring in gas (at $4.19 a gallon) for a two-day trip from San Francisco to Reno, Nev., the total cost to rent the Nissan Altima hybrid came to an estimated $262. The same trip in the Pontiac Vibe was $207. 
 Nevertheless, travelers are reluctant to book S.U.V.'s or other large vehicles that consume a lot of gas. ''It's a sign of the times,'' said Neil Abrams, president of Abrams Consulting Group, based in Purchase, N.Y., which tracks the rental car industry. ''They're having a hard time in off-peak periods even giving away these things.'' 
 The offer of free upgrades -- a perk that once delighted customers at rental counters when the smaller vehicle they booked was sold out and they drove off in a large, often cushier car, for the same price -- is now backfiring on rental car companies. ''It used to be that many customers would purposely book a smaller car knowing that they could likely get an upgrade at the counter for free when the car they reserved wasn't available,'' Chris Payne, a spokesman for Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, wrote in an e-mail. ''Today there are a lot of objections to the larger vehicle and a lot of times the consumer's perception of a car being a 'gas guzzler' doesn't match up with reality.'' 
 TO show customers that the difference in gas cost when upgrading isn't as great as they may think, the company is introducing a chart at rental counters with vehicle fuel cost comparisons based on 100-mile trips. For example, an upgrade to the sexier Ford Mustang from the Toyota Camry LE will add $4.39 to your gas bill on a 100-mile trip, according to the chart. Moving up from the Toyota Prius to the Chrysler 300 will cost $12.16 extra in gas. 
 ''From an economic benefit standpoint, consumers have to ask, does the value proposition really hold,'' when choosing between a hybrid and another rental car, said Mr. Abrams. ''If you're going to be renting a car for two weeks and traveling thousands of miles, it may be a benefit. It's not unlike the decision a consumer has to make when he buys a car,'' he said. ''How long do you have to hold the car to get the full cost benefit?''
 Recognizing the premium customers typically pay to rent a hybrid, San Francisco International Airport is introducing a rebate program to encourage travelers to go green. Starting Dec. 30, customers renting a hybrid at the airport will get a $15 credit on their rental bill. 
 In the meantime, if your heart is set on a hybrid, consider renting at off-airport locations, which typically offer lower rental rates than those at the airport. If you only need a car for part of your vacation, for, say, a day trip to George Washington's Mount Vernon, just outside Washington, a car-sharing service is another alternative. 
 Zipcar, the largest service, with vehicles in more than 50 cities throughout North America, has lowered the hourly rates of some of its hybrids, charging between $6 and $10 an hour or from $60 a day to encourage customers to book the green cars, which in turn lowers gas prices for the company. All reservations include up to 180 miles of driving, the cost of insurance, maintenance, parking, and even gas. There is an initial membership fee and incremental mileage charges if you drive more than 180 miles. 
 A first-time user planning to try the service only occasionally pays a $50 annual charge and $25 application fee. In a recent spot check, several Honda Civic hybrids were available for a two-day trip in Washington. Total cost: $152.90. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY RASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); AIRPORTS (57%)

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (63%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (85%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (85%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



584 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 24, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 INFLATION TAKING TOLL
 On Vietnam's Spirits
 August is the month when Buddhists honor the dead with paper offerings. But shopkeepers in Vietnam say people are buying fewer gifts to burn for the dead because inflation has made them, like everything else, more expensive as the country suffers its first serious downturn since it moved from a command economy to an open market nearly two decades ago. PAGE 8
 PREPARING FOR REFUGEES
 With Russia saying its military pullback from Georgia had been completed, despite still holding several key areas of the country, Georgia began to ready cities and villages in the conflict areas for the return of thousands of refugees who fled the violence that erupted two weeks ago. Georgia has deployed a ''massive police presence'' in and around the city of Gori to help guarantee security for returning residents. PAGE 6 
 PHOTOS OF ATTACK IN CHINA
 The Associated Press has released photographs of an attack that took place this month against Chinese security forces in the remote Silk Road oasis town of Kashgar that Chinese officials said killed 16 paramilitary officers. Some critics have said the Chinese government may have fabricated its accounts of the attack to justify a crackdown in parts of Xinjiang. PAGE 10
 NATIONAL
 VETTED JUDGES LESS LIKELY 
 To Grant Asylum Requests
 Immigration judges chosen by the Bush administration for their political affiliation disproportionately rejected immigrants seeking asylum, according to an analysis. The selection procedure was abandoned as illegal after three years, but critics say the continued presence of some of the judges undermines the perceived fairness of hearings. PAGE 17
 BEIJING TO BIRMINGHAM
 In his first year as mayor of Birmingham, Ala., Larry P. Langford has set some lofty goals, among them, hosting the 2020 Olympic Games. Never mind the lack of hotel space, transportation options, athletic facilities. ''Our city has allowed the world to tell us for too long that we're 'less than' and 'too small,' and we've bought into it,'' he said. ''We need to start thinking big.'' PAGE 14
 BEIJING '08
 WINNERS TAKE GOLD,
 While Others Cope
 Petero Okotai, Erica Bartolina and Genny Pagliaro are first-time Olympians with at least one other thing in common: Each finished last in an event. How they coped with that was as much a part of the Olympic experience here as Michael Phelps's swimming successes or Usain Bolt's superhuman sprints. And there are thousands more losers than winners packed into the athletes' village. PAGE 1
 AVERTING A CHINESE SWEEP
 After finishing 16th in the 3-meter springboard event, the Australian Matthew Mitcham decided just to relax and enjoy the Olympic experience. Saturday night, with dives in the 10-meter platform finals that deprived China of a gold medal in diving for the first time during the Games, the enjoying was easier. PAGE 7 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 A NETWORKING WEB SITE
 With Real-World Focus
 The two dozen or so Boston terriers and their owners at Carl Schurz Park on the Upper East Side of Manhattan on a recent Saturday came not through curious chance. They used Meetup.com, a social networking site that aims to have people with similar interests meet not just in the virtual world, but in the real one. PAGE 26
 SCENES FROM HOME
 The big screen TV at the Fujian Fuzhou Senior Association in Chinatown is always a draw, but for the past two weeks the Beijing Games have attracted an even bigger and more engaged crowd than usual. A sign says ''Members Only,'' but especially at times like this, membership is a fluid concept. PAGE 25
 THE U. S. OPEN DECIDER
 He worked his way up the tennis ladder, playing at events in places like Pensacola, Fla. Now he is the director of the United States Tennis Association Pro Circuit, and, more to the point right now, the United States Open referee. For the next couple of weeks, decisions right down to who plays when and where are his to make. PAGE 25
 OBITUARIES
 DR. HUGH R. BUTT, 98
 His bravura studies of coagulation showed that Vitamin K could be highly effective in halting internal bleeding and that it could be used to reduce deaths markedly among patients with jaundice. PAGE 27
 The Magazine
 A FREE-MARKET-LOVING 
 Wealth Redistributionist
 Barack Obama has a lot to say about economics. Unlike, say, Bill Clinton, he wants to raise taxes not to reduce the deficit but to address inequality. But how does he reduce all of those ideas to a bumper sticker? PAGE 28 
 STILL BEING JOHN MCENROE
 As a tennis wizard, John McEnroe wielded expletives the way he wielded his racket. In his second life as tennis's premier commentator, he is:
 a) In control
 b) Worked up
 c) Mellower
 d) Stressed
 e) All of the Above. PAGE 22
 The Ethicist:
 The Lazy Paperboy 15
 Questions for:
 Dennis Kucinich 15 
 Book Review 
 TWO NATIONS DIVIDED
 By a Common Language
 Sarah Lyall, a New Yorker by birth and temperament, married an Englishman, moved to London and has spent the last decade observing the curious behavior of the British. Such is the thrust of her new book, ''The Anglo Files,'' a loving, playful look at her adopted home. ''Learning about cricket in middle age is like, studying Mandarin, an effort best left to scholars, optimists and members of the Foreign Service,'' she writes. PAGE 10
 THE ART OF THE ''MOMOIR''
 In ''Mother on Fire,'' Sandra Tsing Loh writes that she expected her 40s to be her Amy Tan/Yo-Yo Ma years: ''a seasoned, leavened time in my life when the artist travels around the country accepting lifetime awards and honorary medals.'' Instead, she finds herself jockeying -- and failing -- to get her children into exclusive, expensive Los Angeles elementary schools and experiencing a democracy-mad, public citizenship epiphany. PAGE 7
 Theroux Revisits His Past 12
 China vs. the Falun Gong 11
 Sunday Business
 WHAT FANNIE AND FREDDIE
 Cost You and Me
 ''No bailout exists in a vacuum,'' writes Gretchen Morgenson of possible measures to help out struggling Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the mortgage behemoths that guarantee or hold $5.2 trillion in mortgages. The ramifications, she says, are likely to be complex and confounding -- not to mention very, very costly. PAGE 1
 TACKLING STUDENT LOANS
 With more people going to college, more people are taking out student loans to finance their educations. That also means that more loans are going into default, and lenders who make loans guaranteed by the federal government can more easily take steps against borrowers than they can with other kinds of unsecured consumer debts. PAGE 1
 Arts & Leisure
 ALL THE COMPLEXITY,
 With Less Commitment
 J. J. Abrams, the creator of ''Lost'' and ''Alias,'' said people would come up to him and tell him they had stopped watching one of his intricately plotted shows after missing a single episode, fearing they would never be able to catch up. He has promised to keep things more simple on his new sci-fi serial drama, ''Fringe.'' PAGE 17
 AN AUTEUR'S DIARY
 Woody Allen kept a running log of his new film, ''Vicky Cristina Barcelona,'' which starts Penelope Cruz, Javier Bardem, and Scarlett Johansson. ''Barcelona is a marvelous city,'' he writes. ''Crowds turn out in the streets to watch us work. Mercifully they realize I've no time to give autographs, and so they ask only the cast members.'' PAGE 9
 Travel
 POET'S SHORT-LIVED HOME
 Of Myth, Reality and Love
 The town of Soria was home to the poet Antonio Machado, who, while only living in Soria for five years, was heavily influenced by the town, its surrounding landscape,and his wife, Leonor, who died there. Page 5
 Sunday Styles
 COULD YOU SPARE A DIME
 And Do So Via PayPal?
 Hundreds of bloggers will descend on the Democratic and Republican conventions, and both parties want them there. And these online partisans, many of whom are self-financed, must contend with all the logistical and financial hurdles just to get there -- not to mention the party politics happening behind the scenes. PAGE 1
 Modern Love: 
 Marrying as Necessary 6
 Automobiles
 AN S.U.V. FOR HER
 Infiniti, operating under the premise that men and women have different needs on the road, rolled out a 2008 model crossover, the EX35, for female drivers. (It's smaller than the sportier, revamped 2009 FX aimed at men). The Ex boasts an automatic transmission, less horsepower, and considerably less interior room and petite storage spaces. But the EX got all of Infiniti's new technology last December -- well before the revised FX reached market this summer -- and has a lot of other features in its favor. SPORTS, PAGE 19
 Week in Review
 WATCHING THE OLYMPICS
 With an Eyebrow Raised
 The last time John Burns was in China, he was ordered out by the government on charges of using a motorcycle trip across the Chinese heartland as a cover for spying on the country's missile program. And so he has viewed these Olympic games with a mix of wonderment and awe, and he writes that ''some of the worst instincts of the old China have poked through the dazzle.'' PAGE 1
 A FAMILIAR THEME
 When Barack Obama first arrived in Chicago (by way of Harvard by way of Kansas by way of Hawaii), machine politicians in Chicago would often ask: Who sent him? Michael Powell writes that wanderlust ambition is encoded in the American national DNA. ''Again and again in American culture, the rootless outsider becomes an insider, and begins to guard his prize,'' he writes. PAGE 14
 Editorials
 WHAT THE VOTERS KNOW
 We suspect the two presidential candidates would do a better job connecting to voters if they started by telling them what they all too painfully know: This country is in deep economic trouble, and it will take not only creativity but real sacrifice to fix these problems. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 It's time for Barack Obama to dispatch ''Change We Can Believe In'' to a dignified death. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 MAUREEN DOWD
 FYI, John McCain was POW. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 You can't look at the United States Olympic team and not see the strength that comes from diversity, and you can't look at the Chinese team and not see the strength that comes from intense focus and concentrated power. They could learn from each other. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 What makes the news from China is usually the bad news: the arrests, the raided churches, the blocked Internet sites, the overzealous security goons. For all the continuing repression, Chinese live far freer lives now than in the 1980s and 1990s. Just look at the blogs. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 PUTIN IN THE SHADOW
 Of the Red Czar
 In an Op-Ed article, Simon Sebag Montefiore, the author of ''Young Stalin,'' discusses the many ways in which Stalin hovers in the background of Vladimir Putin's invasion of Georgia. 
 WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); DIVING (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); RELIGION (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (94%); VIET NAM (94%); GEORGIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



585 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PAGE JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Amid Dry Times in the West, a Lake Raises Spirits

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: PAGE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
The story of water in the West is largely one of boom and bust, and lately, during a persistent drought, it was mainly bust. But now and then the rains and snow come, the streams and rivers gush, the huge lake here expands and the rhapsody of the rise commences. 
 ''The red sands, the cliffs,'' said Bill Floor as he readied his boat for a jaunt through a channel not open in years because receding waters left it dry. ''Lake Powell has its own special spirit.'' 
 Such excitement abounds in this summer of bountiful water, at least on the lake. That is right: in a drought, Lake Powell, unexpectedly and improbably, has risen to its highest point in six years, in the biggest increase since the dry period began in the fall of 1999. 
 Euphoric locals organized a contest to guess the precise time when the waters, swelled by higher than normal mountain snows this past winter, would fill Castle Rock Cut, the channel through which Mr. Floor prepared to pass. 
 Boaters who had stayed away are flocking back. Hotels are full and booked a month in advance, although it is difficult to discern how much of that is because of the lake or the surge of European tourists -- ''they love the heat and Westerns and anything having to do with cowboys and Indians,'' one merchant said -- taking advantage of the weak dollar.
 Water managers are watching for signs of a long-term letup in the drought. For now, caution rules the day.
 ''The nature of the beast is we don't know if we are in or out of a drought until a couple of years go by because we are talking about long-term trends,'' said Barry Wirth, a spokesman for the Bureau of Reclamation, the federal agency that manages the system of dams and reservoirs on the Colorado River that provides water for 25 million people in seven states, and includes Lake Powell. 
 ''We could have a good year in the midst of bad years,'' he said. ''We just don't know.''
 The lake, which is the second-largest artificial reservoir in the country behind its downstream sister, Lake Mead near Las Vegas, is nearly two-thirds full, a remarkable turnabout from the low it hit in the spring of 2005 when it was about one-third full.
 Lake Powell sits behind Glen Canyon Dam, completed in 1963 near where the Grand Canyon begins, and stretches 186 miles along the Colorado River path, largely in the Utah high desert.
 Fed by the Colorado River and tributaries, it stores water for several states as a sort of insurance policy against lean years. The drought had shrunk the lake to about 33 percent full in 2005, the lowest point since it began filling in 1963, from 95 percent of capacity in 1999.
 The defining image of the lake then was the ''bathtub ring'' of minerals left behind on its cliffs and rocky walls as the water dropped. Boat launches were left unusable or had to be extended to chase the receding water.
 Many boaters abandoned the lake, in part because the closure of Castle Rock Cut had forced boats to take a more turbulent, circuitous route to the inner lake.
 ''The Maytag straits, as in the washing machines, is what people call it,'' said Steve Ward, the director of public relations at Lake Powell Marina and Resort and a boater for 40 years.
 The ring is still there and the water has not restored all of the launches, but at a time of high fuel costs, the opening of Castle Rock Cut is significant. It eliminates an hour or two from the trip up the lake.
 ''We probably would not have come this year if it wasn't open,'' Mr. Floor said. He paused for a moment and returned to reality.
 ''Well, maybe we would have anyway, but it would have been more painful,'' he said, noting that gas alone cost about $1,600 for four or five days on the lake.
 Tom Rohn of Carefree, Ariz., and a friend, Wayne Campbell of Bellevue, Wash., found that the higher water allowed them to go deeper into the many inlets and canyons that rim the lake. 
 ''We saw places we probably haven't seen for many years,'' Mr. Campbell said.
 People new to the lake probably will not understand the excitement. Even at its low point it was still immense, its aqua-blue water a contrast to the jagged red and beige rocks around it.
 ''We came because it is in the desert and we do not see this in Italy,'' said Federico Ventura of Milan, here with his family. ''We did not know about the water. To me it is just a beautiful lake.''
 Mr. Wirth said the lake level was dropping now that the mountain runoff had largely subsided, but officials project it will remain high enough to keep the Castle Rock Cut open until next year. Because of the way the Colorado River is managed, Lake Mead remains low, although the strong runoff and new rules to regulate the lakes put in place last December mean that it will not drop as much as projected last fall.
 Whether a consequence of the lake or the strong performance of the euro, the surge in visitors has led to a welcome problem for this town of about 7,000 that, apart from government work and a nearby power plant, relies on tourism for its economy. 
 ''We can't find a room anywhere,'' said Vin Paitoon, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce in this town, the commercial center for the lake.
 But like a fleeting summer romance, long-timers understand that the lake most likely will drop again. The goal is to take advantage of nature's bonus.
 ''We definitely come here more when the water is up,'' said Mark Tomlinson of Phoenix, ending a seven-day trip on the lake. ''But even down, it's not like there isn't enough water for the boat.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lake Powell, where the rising water has opened Castle Rock Cut and allowed boaters to gain access to the main reservoir from Wahweap Bay.
 Bill Floor and his family at the Wahweap Marina launching pad on Lake Powell. An unexpected rise in the lake's water level has been a boon to Page, Ariz. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (91%); DROUGHT (90%); RIVERS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); TRENDS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (75%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



586 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Hitting the Asphalt for a Final Car-Free Saturday

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Jason Grant and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Summer Streets, the city experiment that for three Saturdays this month closed off long stretches of Park Avenue and other streets to cars and trucks, came to an end this weekend with a chorus of praise from bikers, joggers and the baby-stroller set. 
 But for businesses in the car-free zone, a 6.9-mile route that went from the Brooklyn Bridge north to Park Avenue and up past Grand Central Terminal to the Upper East Side, the reviews were varied. 
 Motorless traffic was up exponentially over most Saturdays, with thousands taking to the wide-open streets on bicycles and in-line skates and in running shoes. But the influx didn't always translate into dollars. In interviews with more than a dozen retailers and restaurants in the zone, some said the impact was negligible, some saw small to substantial increases in sales and a few others said business fell, sometimes sharply. 
 At T. Anthony Ltd., a luggage store on Park Avenue where an alligator duffle bag sells for $10,000, sales decreased as much as 35 percent during Summer Streets, said Jack D. Weiss, the store's retail director, putting a crimp on what is normally its busiest day of the week. 
 ''Maybe if you're a biker or a hiker or a runner, you like this,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''But from the point of view of a retailer, especially in this economy, to have any kind of an impediment is very detrimental.'' 
 The big problem, Mr. Weiss said, was the lack of parking. ''If someone is coming to buy luggage, they're generally going to bring a car.'' 
 A few doors away at the Borders bookstore on East 57th Street and Park, the sentiment was starkly different. 
 ''It's actually been great for us,'' said Scott Marcus, the store's sales manager. ''We've had a line outside the store every morning, and a lot of people are coming in for coffee.'' 
 Officials with the Bloomberg administration say they plan to study the effect on businesses closely as they decide whether to continue or expand Summer Streets next year. The evaluation will include surveys of retailers being conducted by business improvement districts along the route. 
 But so far, officials say, complaints like Mr. Weiss's are the exception. 
 ''We'll evaluate it and make adjustments accordingly, but I've heard nothing but rave reviews,'' said the transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, who proposed the Summer Streets plan based on similar programs in Bogota, Colombia; London; and Paris. ''When I was along the route, most people I talked to wanted it done every weekend in the summer.'' 
 When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the initiative in June, he predicted most retailers would see an increase in business. For some, especially food and drink establishments, that has been true. 
 ''The more people who pass your establishment, the more chance there is that someone will come in,'' said Rashell Crume, the store manager at Falai, a bakery and cafe on Lafayette Street between Spring and Prince Streets. Ms. Crume added that the relative quiet without all the traffic on that normally congested section of Lafayette had made it more pleasant for people to sit outdoors. ''I think that puts everyone in a good mood,'' she said. 
 But for so-called destination shops, businesses like Mr. Weiss's that attract customers who travel to Park Avenue specifically to shop in their stores, the reaction has been less positive. 
 At Walter Steiger, a Park Avenue retailer that sells Italian-made women's and men's shoes, bags and luggage, Linda Sheer, a sales associate, said that over the last three Saturdays, Summer Streets did not appear to hurt her business -- yet it didn't help it either, she said. 
 Ms. Sadik-Kahn said part of the reason August was chosen was because business was generally slower, especially for high-end retailers whose customers often travel in the summer. And the impact on traffic, she said, was minimal during the hours the streets were closed from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
 ''We did pick this window understanding there were low traffic volumes,'' Ms. Sadik-Kahn said. 
 Still, retailers like Ms. Sheer and Mr. Weiss said Sunday would have been a better choice. 
 ''At least then most of Park Avenue is closed,'' Mr. Weiss said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cyclists and pedestrians owned a stretch of Park Avenue in the 50s on the last car-free Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); HIKING (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BOOKSTORES (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (67%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



587 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Ascending the Mountain, Guided by Spirits

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LARCHMONT 

 BODY:
 THE Brothers Merolla are back. Over 64 days, they slogged 4,285 miles by bicycle across the United States, from sea to shining sea, and along the way raised $80,000 for research into cancer, the disease that killed their mother. 
 Justin and Jamie Merolla navigated the desolate salt flats of Nevada, the soaring switchbacks of Utah, the roller coaster hills of Missouri, with a last major ascent through the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia before ending up in old Cape Cod. Through snowstorms, hailstorms, scorching heat and close calls with trucks, they gathered deep insights about this country and how different so much of it is from the relative cushioning of Larchmont. They learned about themselves and what they're capable of, about their brotherly bonds, and about how much they miss the parents who inspired them to this feat of Phelpsian dimensions. 
 Like the winner of eight swimming gold medals in a single Olympics, they set themselves a magnificent, improbable goal and nailed it. And the spirit of their dead parents helped them. As anyone watching the Beijing Olympics can attest, parents of teenagers and twentysomethings are not just meddlers and scolders. They can bequeath reservoirs of steel, grit and drive -- not to mention genes. Some of the Olympics' most touching sights were seeing Nastia Liukin's father -- her coach as well -- lushly powder the uneven bars before her routine in the gymnastics competition so she would not slip, and Ryan Lochte's father weeping prodigiously when his son glided past Aaron Peirsol in the 200-meter backstroke.
 Justin and Jamie's mother, Susan, was a marathoner who lost her battle with breast cancer in May 1995 at the age of 42. Their father, Joseph, was a 100-mile-a-day cyclist who died of a pulmonary embolism three years later at the age of 46. The brothers were left orphans at 14 and 9, until friends of their parents adopted them. When it seemed herculean to force themselves 7,000 feet up a Utah mountain in one day so they could stay on schedule, the memory of their parents was their goad. 
 ''When you're on your bike alone, you think about things, and when climbing up mountains, I thought they were with us,'' Justin said.
 Their parents would have pushed themselves to the top, they decided, and so they pushed themselves, too.
 The Merolla brothers learned a lot about America that school hadn't taught them. In small towns in the listless flats of Nevada, they saw grown men and women high on methamphetamine and shooting up traffic signs for sport, or, as Justin said, ''acting like zombies.'' In Appalachian Kentucky, they were astonished by the depths of poverty, crystallized for them by jobless men and women sitting at midday on tumbledown porches, swatting flies.
 ''What became painfully obvious is that the majority of the nation is not as well off as the suburbs of New York,'' Justin observed.
 They were surprised at how motley this country is, how the terrain shifts sharply at borders between states, and the personality of people changes as well. ''Kansas has the nicest people on earth,'' Jamie said, while he and his brother would more readily describe Coloradans as ''free-spirited.'' 
 ''Everybody was chasing their dream,'' said Jamie, 19, a junior at Trinity College in Connecticut.
 ''They were there because they wanted to be there,'' added Justin, 24, a film production assistant, speaking of Coloradans' affection for their locale. ''It was refreshing, when we here expect our young people to get good grades, go to college, work in Manhattan and make a lot of money.''
 The Merolla brothers also learned how bighearted some Americans are. In Missouri, families let them shower at a Baptist Sunday school and sleep on the school floor, and the next morning made them a breakfast of biscuits, waffles and chocolate chip cookies. Others along their route pledged a penny or a dollar for every mile they rode, money that will go to the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
 They learned that they can rely on each other. Jamie left the navigation up to Justin, and Justin depended on his younger brother to watch out for those trucks speeding up from the rear and yell out, ''Car back!'' With amusement that masked just a tad of annoyance, Justin said he couldn't remember a single car that passed them where his brother didn't yell out, ''Car back!''
 ''He's more mature than I thought he was,'' Justin said, somewhat older-brotherish. ''He's very careful, very thoughtful. He reminds me of our dad a lot. Our dad was the kind of guy who told you, 'Never run with scissors in your hand!' and 'Always wear a seat belt!' '' 
 They got along for 64 days, so they expect to for a lifetime.
 ''We spent 64 days within 100 yards of each other, and we barely fought,'' Jamie marveled.
 But again, it was their parents who animated them along their sinuous journey. Jamie remembered a breathtaking sunset at the end of a day, scaling the Blue Ridge and thinking how much his mother loved sunsets over Cape Cod. It was providential that they finished their cross-country ride on Cape Cod, in Provincetown, on Aug. 3, their mother's birthday.
 ''Having them in our minds and hearts made even the steepest climb seem flat,'' Justin said.
 ''Well, I wouldn't say flat,'' Jamie corrected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOME AGAIN: From left, Jamie and Justin Merolla, in Larchmont. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CANCER (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); ORPHANS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CLIMBING (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); GYMNASTICS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



588 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: PULSE: THIS JUST IN Retreat of the Knee

BYLINE: By Karin Nelson

 BODY:
PEOPLE may pooh-pooh his theory, but George Taylor, the Wharton economist who posited the ''hemline index,'' could have predicted a floor-length silhouette for fall. For him, the slumping economy would have spelled the end of the micro-mini, and, to a certain extent, that's just what happened. Though short skirts still live, a slew of forward-thinking designers, including Marc Jacobs, Marios Schwab and Junya Watanabe showed strikingly new long-and-lean looks for fall. And Kate Moss, Nicole Richie and both Olsens have taken to wearing them. 
Of course there are holes in the theory: The Los Angeles designer Jenni Kayne has been showing sinuous floor-length skirts for several seasons now. ''I just think they're so chic,'' she said. ''It's such an effortless way to dress up without looking over the top.'' She does note, however, that it was only this fall that store buyers took a keen interest in them. ''I guess they're just catching on,'' she said.
So how does one wear the new silhouette? Marc Jacobs paired it with similarly long jackets, and Marios Schwab stuck jeans underneath. But Ms. Kayne has perhaps the most practical advice: ''Dress it down with a casual silk T-shirt. And if you're short, wear heels.''
From left: Silk gown with embroidery and feather detail at Gucci. Silk gownat
Gianfranco Ferre in Beverly Hills. Jenni Kaynesequined mermaid skirt at Curve.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRSTVIEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (70%); KATE MOSS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



589 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: For a Good Time, Let the Dance Numbers Move You

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD

 BODY:
Back before the Beatles and the Rolling Stones changed everything, British rock stars were a distinctly second-tier commodity, exemplified by the wholesome blond blandness of Tommy Steele. An amiably boyish singer and guitarist with big blue eyes, a dazzling smile and an abundance of cutes, he danced around the stage without a trace of the sexual swagger that made Elvis Presley Elvis Presley. And if you can imagine a musical built to display his talents, you'll know exactly what's wrong with ''Half a Sixpence.'' 
 The show, which was a resounding hit in the West End before bringing Mr. Steele to Broadway in 1965, is being given a typically lavish, high-gloss production at Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam. And in that delightful Victorian setting, it isn't hard to just let go of your critical faculties, ignore the silliness and coast along with the bouncy songs and rollicking dance numbers. But it does take effort -- lots of effort -- to care even a whit about the musical's stock characters and threadbare plot. 
 This is odd, since they are taken from the 1905 novel ''Kipps: The Story of a Simple Soul,'' which helped H. G. Wells cement his reputation as a writer and which he based partly on his own early life. Like Wells, Artie Kipps is a poor boy apprenticed to a cloth merchant in a seaside town in England. Unlike Wells, he inherits a fortune, and his adventures in the upper reaches of Britain's class system reflect the author's passionately held socialist views.
 As adapted by Beverley Cross to make room for elaborate musical numbers, Artie's story is a familiar little morality tale about the deserving poor and the undeserving rich. And David Heneker's songs, written with the broad, jaunty strokes of the English music hall, do little to add depth. Artie, who performs most of them, tends to sing about his stingy boss (''All in the Cause of Economy''), buying a banjo (''Money to Burn'') and posing for photographs (''Flash Bang Wallop'') rather than revealing the secrets of his heart. When the score does take the trouble to raise the emotional stakes -- in a song like ''She's Too Far Above Me,'' for example -- the result, like the title, is trite.
 Mr. Steele, whose emphatic approach can be sampled in the film version of ''Sixpence,'' managed to carry this less-than-stellar material to nine Tony nominations. Goodspeed's Artie, Jon Peterson, works just as hard to put it across, and he mostly succeeds. A stylish hoofer with a winsome goofy streak, he looks a little like a more endearing Jerry Lewis as he romances a dress dummy in Shalford's Emporium, offers his servant-girl sweetheart half of a coin as a keepsake and then gets sidetracked by a pretty debutante. 
 The socialite (Julia Osborne) has a super-snobby brother (Carrington Vilmont) who handles other people's finances. Has there ever been an investment adviser anywhere in literature who actually makes money for a client? If so, he's not to be found in the vicinity of ''Half a Sixpence.'' The outcome is never in doubt as Artie sticks with his first love and marries the servant (played by Sara Gettelfinger), the bankroll disappears, and everyone learns what is truly important. Hint: it's not being the owner of an 11-bedroom house.
 The show's director, Gordon Greenberg, deserves credit for keeping the sappiness quotient to a bare minimum. He is much more interested in getting laughs out of the stuffy rich people and putting Mr. Peterson's slapstick skills on display. And he gets superb reinforcement from the clever choreographer, Patti Colombo. Rob Bissinger's glowing set designs, which rely heavily on drop cloths, leave plenty of space for Ms. Colombo's dancers to clog with abandon, and they do. The dance numbers were singled out by reviewers as the outstanding element of the original production, and they prove to be the same here. Another asset is the lighting of Jeff Croiter, who manages to ease the eye from the pearly sheen of the store's interior to the burnished warmth of the local pub with no discernible effort. David C. Woolard's spiffy costumes also do much to evoke the show's Edwardian period.
 More than a half century after his first big record -- it was called ''Rock With the Caveman'' -- Mr. Steele is still on the stage in England (and judging from recent photographs, he hasn't changed all that much). But according to Goodspeed, ''Half a Sixpence'' hasn't been fully mounted professionally in the United States since its final performance on Broadway in 1966. That, it turns out, is not exactly accidental. There are plenty of forgotten musicals that would reward the loving care expended in a Goodspeed revival. But from the available evidence, ''Half a Sixpence'' is not among them.
 ''Half a Sixpence,'' by David Heneker and Beverley Cross, is at Goodspeed Opera House, Route 82, East Haddam, through Sept. 19. Information: (860) 873-8668 or www.goodspeed.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: REVIVAL: Members of the cast of ''Half a Sixpence'' perform ''Come On Enjoy Yourself !'' from the musical at the Goodspeed Opera House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANE SOBOLEWSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); WRITERS (87%); POP & ROCK (78%); SONG WRITING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) ENGLAND (73%); UNITED STATES (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



590 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Friends in Unfriendly Places

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GOLDFARB. 
Michael Goldfarb is the author of ''Ahmad's War, Ahmad's Peace: Surviving Under Saddam, Dying in the New Iraq.''

 BODY:
INVISIBLE NATION
 How the Kurds' Quest for Statehood Is Shaping Iraq and the Middle East
 By Quil Lawrence
 Illustrated. 366 pp. Walker & Company. $25.95
 Sooner or later most foreign correspondents find themselves sent to Kurdistan. This fact has been true for many decades, a testimony to the Kurds' chronic, newsworthy troubles. The journalists assigned there discover that the land and its people get under their skin in a way other places don't. 
 The reasons for all this are varied. There is the historic injustice at the heart of the Kurdish story: as the world's largest ethnic group without a country of their own, they have suffered everything from cultural and economic oppression to genocide. Then, in a region where Western reporters are not liked very much, Kurds are exceptionally friendly. Finally, there is the raw physical beauty of Kurdistan. 
 Early in ''Invisible Nation,'' Quil Lawrence, who has spent much of this decade reporting from Iraq for the BBC/PRI radio program ''The World,'' confesses to the power Kurdistan holds on him. The Kurds have clearly worked on his heart, and it shows in the way he tells the story of a people who have made themselves central not just to American plans in Iraq but also in the wider Middle East. 
 For any author, writing a history of the Kurds presents a challenge, because the Kurdish story has more switchbacks than a shepherd's trail into the mountains. It is filled with alliances, betrayals, unlikely political marriages of convenience, bloody shotgun divorces. This book pretty much tells the reader all of them. But it is structured around the Kurds' relationship with the United States -- a relationship with as many twists and turns as the rest, and with the same bloody consequences. 
 Lawrence goes back to the early 1970s, when Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger's realpolitik defined America's approach to the world. The great Iraqi Kurdish rebel leader Mustafa Barzani put his people forward to Washington as willing players between Iran's shah and Iraq's Saddam Hussein. But the Kurds never rose above the level of pawns in this game, and when Iran and Iraq reached a rapprochement, America abandoned them to Hussein's not-so-tender mercies. 
 Lawrence then takes the reader on the bumpy, bloody road leading to the astonishing situation today: a Kurd, Jalal Talabani, is the president of Iraq, and Mustafa Barzani's son Massoud Barzani is president of a Kurdish region that enjoys extraordinary autonomy and wealth. That autonomy has the Kurds' neighbors, Iran and especially Turkey -- which has long been fighting with a Kurdish separatist group, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or P.K.K. -- militarily concerned. The Turkish Air Force has attacked P.K.K. bases in northern Iraq several times recently, and there are regular reports of Iran shelling its own Kurdish separatist movement's hideouts inside Iraq. 
 Kurdish wealth, meanwhile, may prove to be illusory. It is based on the Kurds' controlling the area around the north's oil capital, Kirkuk. Barzani calls Kirkuk the Kurdish Jerusalem, but the city today is a complex and volatile mix of Arabs and Turkmens (ethnic Turks), as well as Kurds. Sporadic violence in the city frequently goes unreported, unless the death toll rises into double digits, because few Western news organizations can afford to cover the place. A final political resolution of the Kirkuk situation was supposed to be reached last year. It wasn't. The risk of igniting ethnic civil war just when Iraq was coming to grips with its sectarian fighting was too great. Recently it was announced that there would be no vote until next year. 
 This is a journalist's book, long on double-sourced facts and interesting quotations. But Lawrence, whose experience gives him genuine authority on Kurdistan, could have provided more original analysis of the questions that gnaw at the reader. Why in this new era do the Kurds continue to tolerate the corruption and nepotism associated with their leaders? How long will it continue? What does it mean for building true democracy there? Lawrence might also have speculated on the almost irrational hatred of Turks toward Kurds, a powerful negative force in the region. 
 In the penultimate chapter, Lawrence returns to the theme of American fidelity to the Kurds. He asks Hoshyar Darbandi, a Kurd who has recently returned home from a comfortable exile in Sweden, if he fears Turkish or Arab interference in Kurdistan. No, Darbandi tells him. ''It's promises from the U.S. that scare me.'' 
 Darbandi's fears are justified. Emanations from some conservative Washington research groups indicate the Bush administration is changing its attitude toward the Kurds. The question is being asked, Are the Kurds good allies? The answers suggest the administration is starting to think no, they are not. What Quil Lawrence's book teaches us is that when the American endgame in Iraq starts to play out, the Kurds will be stuck in the middle of the changes. And another generation of foreign correspondents will have the sad opportunity to report from and fall in love with the place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARZER JAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ETHNICITY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: WALKER & CO (WINTER PARK, FLORIDA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (91%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (91%)

PERSON: JALAL TALABANI (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



591 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2326 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club ''Sunday Night Funnies,'' featuring various comedians. Aug. 24 at 7:30 p.m. $12 plus a two-beverage minimum. Al Ducharme, stand-up. Friday at 8 and 10:30 p.m.; Aug. 30 at 7:30 and 10 p.m. $20 plus a two-beverage minimum. Brian Posehn, stand-up. Aug. 31 at 7 p.m. $23 plus a two-beverage minimum. Eric McMahon, stand-up. Sept. 5 and 6. $20 plus a two-beverage minimum. Charlie Murphy, stand-up. Sept. 7 at 7 p.m. $30 plus a two-beverage minimum. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 Division Avenue. (516) 731-3358; www.govs.com. 
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three The Long Island Comedy Festival. Friday and Aug. 30, at 8 p.m. $25. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.licomedyfest.com. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater Eddie Griffin. Monday at 10 p.m. $50. Jeffrey Ross. Aug. 30 at 11 p.m. $50. Jamie Kennedy. Aug. 31 at 11 p.m. $50. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. 
 FILM
 HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''Greed,'' silent film by Erich von Stroheim with live musical accompaniment by Ben Model, organist. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $9 and $12. ''The Earrings of Madame De ...,'' by Max Ophuls. Sept. 2 at 7:30 p.m. $4.50 to $9. ''Flight of the Red Balloon,'' by Hou Hsiao-hsien. Tuesday at 7 and 9:05 p.m. $4.50 and $9. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611; www.cinemaartscentre.org. 
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''Rape of Europa,'' about the Nazis' looting of art treasures in Europe. Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m., through Sept. 7. Free with museum admission. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 CENTERPORT Vanderbilt Museum Summer Season 2008: ''Snow White'' and ''The Little Mermaid and the Prince,'' presented by the Arena Players. Through Aug. 31. $10. Vanderbilt Museum, Carriage House Theater, 180 Little Neck Road. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum Kangaroo Crossing, an exhibition that introduces children to the geography, geology, biology, economy, architecture, natural wonders and climate of Australia. Through Aug. 31. Free with museum admission. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org. 
 ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Pop-Up Fairy Tales,'' an exhibition featuring pop-up books and other objects from the collection of Leah Fiterstein. Through Oct. 12. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com. 
 UNIONDALE Nassau Coliseum ''Disney Music Block Party Tour,'' hosted by Raven-Symone and featuring various Disney artists. Aug. 24 at 3 p.m. $32.50. Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike. (516) 794-9300; www.nassaucoliseum.com. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 AMAGANSETT Stephen Talkhouse Suzanne Vega, singer-songwriter. Aug. 24 at 7 p.m. $75 and $90. Stephen Talkhouse, 161 Main Street. (631) 267-3117; www.stephentalkhouse.com. 
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Robert Gordon and Chris Spedding with Roy Wilson and the Buzzards, rock. Sept. 5 at 8 p.m. $32.50. Brendan James, singer-songwriter. Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. $20. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.org. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Artmosphere,'' a multimedia performance presented by the Artists Group, featuring dance and music. Sept. 4 through Sept. 7. $30. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.
 DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts Miles Davis Tribute, with performances by Randy Brecker and Felipe Salles. Sept. 5 at 7:30 p.m. $30. Tribute to the Allman Brothers,with performance by Seven Turns, an eight-piece band. Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $20. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org. 
 FARMINGDALE Crazy Donkey Dave Mason, rock. Aug. 24 at 7 p.m. $35 and $40. A Tribute to Sublime, featuring Badfish. Thursday at 6 p.m. $19 and $25. Andrew W. K., rock. Aug. 31 at 7 p.m. $12 and $15. Fear Nuttin Band, rock. Sept. 7 at 4 p.m. $10 and $13. Crazy Donkey, 1058 Route 110. (631) 753-1975; www.thecrazydonkey.com. 
 FARMINGVILLE Brookhaven Amphitheater Arts and Cultural Center Squeeze with the Smithereens, rock. Aug. 24 at 7 p.m. $42.50 and $57.50. Brookhaven Amphitheater Arts and Cultural Center, at Bald Hill. (631) 451-8010; www.brookhavenamphitheater.com. 
 LONG BEACH Kennedy Plaza Long Beach Jazz Festival, with performances by the Amazing Ben Lacy and the Mark Sherman Group. Sept. 4 at 7 p.m. Free. N.Y.'s Finest (New York City Police Department Big Band) and Chieli Minucci Trio, jazz. Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. Free. Long Beach Jazz Festival, with performances by the Blue Vipers of Brooklyn, the Bryant Carrott Group and more. Sept. 6 at noon. Free. Long Beach Jazz Festival, with performances by Mike Barnett and Dianne Hoffman, Alan Bates Steel Pan Group and more. Sept. 7 at noon. Free. Kennedy Plaza, 1 West Chester Street. (516) 431-1000, Extension 224. 
 OLD WESTBURY Salten Hall Jazz Brunch, featuring Al Cardillo and friends; buffet brunch included. Sept. 7 at 11:30 a.m. $29. Salten Hall, New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury Campus, Northern Boulevard. (516) 686-7640. 
 RIVERHEAD Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar A. F. Wargo, pianist, will perform a concert of classic Broadway and Hollywood songs of love and romance from the Great American Song Book. Aug. 24 and 31 at noon. Free. Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar, 17 Main Street. (631) 208-3151; www.tweedsrestaurant.com. 
 SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts The Cast of Beatlemania, a tribute band that includes former members of the musical's cast. Aug. 30 and 31. $35. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2 East Main Street. (631) 724-3700; www.smithtownpac.org. 
 SOUTHOLD Silversmith's Corner Summer Showcase Concert Series, featuring the Greenport Band. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Donation accepted. Silversmith's Corner, Town Green on Main Road. (631) 765-3598. 
 WANTAGH Nikon at Jones Beach Theater. Jimmy Buffett and the Coral Reefer Band. Wednesday at 8 p.m. $56 to $156. Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, 1000 Ocean Parkway. (516) 221-1000.
 WESTBURY Capital One Bank Theater Ted Nugent with Alex Winston, rock. Aug. 24 at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. Huey Lewis and the News with Paul Thorn, pop. Monday at 8 p.m. $61.50 and $71.50. The Beach Boys. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $56.50 and $66.50. Chris Isaak with James Hunter, pop-rock. Friday at 8 p.m. $46.50 and $56.50. Acoustic Hot Tuna with David Lindley, blues/rock. Aug. 30 at 8 p.m. $40. Ginuwine, Dru Hill and Sisqo, R&B. Sept. 6 at 7 p.m. $80 and $90. Capital One Bank Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Marc Cohn, singer-songwriter. Aug. 24 at 8:30 p.m. $45 to $75. Chris Isaak, pop-rock. Aug. 31 at 8:30 p.m. $125 to $200. Los Lonely Boys, Latin rock. Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. $70 to $100. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-150; www.whbpac.org.
 OUTDOORS
 GREAT RIVER Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park Shakespeare in the Park presents ''Twelfth Night.'' Aug. 24. Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park, 440 Montauk Highway. (631) 581-1002; www.nysparks.com. 
 MONTAUK Hither Hills State Park Sandcastle Contest. Build a castle using sand, water and other beach materials. Prizes awarded in several categories. Thursdays at 9:30 a.m. through Thursday. Registration required. Hither Hills State Park, 50 South Fairview Avenue.(631) 668-2554. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 DEER PARK Deer Park Public Library Chocolate Lovers 101; learn chocolate melting and dipping techniques with MaryAnne Impostato. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Deer Park Public Library, 44 Lake Avenue. (631) 586-3006; dprk.suffolk.lib.ny.us. 
 HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library Dr. Alan Calder, astronomer from Stony Brook University, will lecture on supernova explosions in space. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Book discussion on ''Don Quixote,'' by Miguel de Cervantes. Thursday at noon. Free. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Library. (631) 588-5024; sachem.suffolk.lib.ny.us. 
 LAWRENCE Peninsula Public Library Meet the Author: Mort Zachter, author of ''Dough,'' a memoir. Sept. 4 at 1 p.m. Free. ''French Art of the 18th Century: Rococo vs. Enlightenment,'' an illustrated art lecture. Monday at 1 p.m. Free. ''The Hebrew Roots of Democracy,'' lecture and discussion with Isaac Alteras, professor of history at Queens College. Thursday at 1 p.m. Free. Peninsula Public Library, 280 Central Avenue. (516) 239-3262. 
 THEATER
 CENTERPORT Vanderbilt Museum Summer Festival 2008: ''Hamlet,'' presented by the Arena Players. Through Friday. $15. Vanderbilt Museum, Carriage House Theater, 180 Little Neck Road. (516) 293-0674. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''Ladies in Retirement,'' by Edward Percy and Reginald Denham. Through Aug. 31. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.
 EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Chere Maitre: The Correspondence of Gustave Flaubert and George Sand,'' presented by the John Drew Theater. Aug. 24 and Monday at 8 p.m. $28 and $30. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.
 EAST HAMPTON Mulford Farm ''The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged),'' comedy. Through Aug 31. $12 and $18. Mulford Farm, 10 James Lane. (631) 324-6850; www.easthamptonhistory.org. 
 LINDENHURST Studio Theater ''Countermoves,'' drama, presented by the BroadHollow Theater Company. Through Sept. 14. $14 to $22. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700. 
 NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater ''Over the River and Through the Woods,'' comedy. Through Sept. 14. $50. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street. (631) 261-2900; www.johnwengemantheater.com. 
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts ''The Producers,'' musical comedy by Mel Brooks, presented by the Gateway Playhouse. Wednesday through Sept. 13. $25 to $45. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Ain't Misbehavin','' musical, songs by Fats Waller. Through Aug. 31. $65. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 BELLPORT Ratio Gallery ''Borrowed Memory,'' drawings by Viviane Silvera. Through Aug. 30. Hours: Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; all other days by appointment. Ratio Gallery, 10 Bell Street. (631) 286-4020; www.ratiogallery.com.
 EAST HAMPTON The Basement Gallery ''Love for Man and Beast,'' an exhibition featuring works by the artist and musician Justin Love. Through Sept. 1. By appointment only. The Basement Gallery, 9 Albertines Lane. (631) 329-2927. 
 EAST ISLIPIslip Art Museum ''A Passion for Pixels,'' digital art. Through Sept. 7. Donation: $3. ''Projects 2008,'' an exhibition of installations created by artists for the Carriage House. Through Oct. 5. Donation: $3. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. (631) 224-5402; www.islipartmuseum.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Public Library ''Huntington Beaches'' and ''Other Landscapes,'' paintings by Elizabeth Ehrlichman. Through Friday. Huntington Public Library, 338 Main Street. (631) 427-5165; suffolk.lib.ny.us. 
 PORT WASHINGTON Graphic Eye Gallery ''Summer Coolers,'' an exhibition of works by various artists. Through Sept. 7. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Graphic Eye Gallery, 402 Main Street. (516) 883-9668; www.graphiceyegallery.com. highlight
 QUOGUE Quogue Library Art Gallery ''Animal Art,'' featuring sculptures of African animals by Thomas Rees. Through Aug. 31. Hours: Sundays and Mondays, noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Quogue Library Art Gallery, 90 Quogue Street. (631) 653-4224.
 ST. JAMES Smithtown Township Arts Council ''Introspections,'' a juried self-portrait exhibition focused on the image of the artists themselves. Through Sept. 22. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Smithtown Township Arts Council, 660 Route 25A. (631) 862-6575; www.stacarts.org. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Historical Museum ''Sporting Life in the Hamptons: The Lillywhite Family Collection,'' an exhibition displaying early sporting interests in the Hamptons and a look into a family collection. Through Aug. 30. ''Lighthouse Paintings,'' East End lighthouses depicted by Ellen De Pazzi. Through Aug. 30. $4. Seniors, $3; students, $2. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Southampton Historical Museum, 17 Meeting House Lane. (631) 283-2494; www.southamptonhistoricalmuseum.org.
 STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Summer on Long Island.'' Juried art exhibition in all media features works by amateur and professional artists. Sept. 3 through 21. $7; seniors, $6; students, $3. ''Eye on the Storm: Long Island's Dangerous Coast'' examines the hurricane of 1938. Through Oct. 26. $7; seniors, $6; students, $3. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. (631) 751-0066; www.longislandmuseum.org. 
 STONY BROOK The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center ''Hot Dawg! Celebrating Coney Island, America's First Amusement Park,'' a collection of Coney Island memorabilia. Through Aug. 24. $7; seniors, $6; children under 12, $4. The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center, 97P Main Street. (631) 689-5888; www.wmho.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WESTHAMPTON BEACH: A scene from ''Lanterna Magica,'' presented by the Pilobolus American Dance Company, performing a combination of contortion and dance at the Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center on Aug. 30 at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $55 to $85. 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500
www.whbpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
SMITHTOWN: Joan St. Onge and Phyllis March are in ''Grey Gardens,'' a musical comedy by Doug Wright at the Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts through Sept. 7. Tickets are $26 to $30. 2 East Main Street. (631) 724-3700
www.smithtownpac.org.
OAKDALE: Diana Buchwald plays Nancy and Jesse Lewis is Dodger in ''Oliver,'' a musical based on the writings of Charles Dickens playing at the CM Performing Arts Center through Aug. 31. Tickets are $16 to $22. 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810
 www.cmpac.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%); THEATER (54%); MUSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



592 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Volkswagen's Next Import?

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
THE Volkswagen Polo has never been sold in the United States, though more than 300,000 are sold each year in Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. There might be compelling reasons to bring Polos here, especially the diesel versions. 
 Why? Because they get incredible fuel economy, better than most hybrids. In the European driving cycle, the Polo 1.4 TDI is rated at 41/62 miles per gallon.
 But there's an even more fuel-efficient Polo. Introduced last year, the Polo BlueMotion is a mileage champ, achieving 48 m.p.g. in the city and -- get this -- 74 m.p.g. on the highway. The estimated range on a single tank of diesel is 700 miles.
 At least for now, though, Americans are out of luck. ''We have no plans to import the current version of the Polo,'' Jim Gill, a Volkswagen spokesman, said. ''Maybe for the future, as we are always considering what is appropriate for the market.'' 
 Nevertheless, hope springs eternal. The Polo is due for a model change in 2010, and Volkswagen's new $1 billion plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., goes on line the following year. Will it produce the Polo? ''Maybe,'' Mr. Gill said. ''We haven't announced what we will build there.'' 
 Consumer Guide thinks a United States version of the Polo is a foregone conclusion. But the BlueMotion represents slightly more than 5 percent of Polo sales, so there's no certainty it would be included in Volkswagen's North American lineup.
 JIM MOTAVALLI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Volkswagen Polo BlueMotion 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (88%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (70%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



593 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 3311 words

HEADLINE: Lonesomeness, Beauty, Ambition and Often an Abiding Oddness: It's the Curious World of the Last Stop

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN; Richard Perry contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At the end of the line, the subway creaks to a stop a few yards short of the yellow crash bumper. A few stragglers, or a lurch of homebound commuters, head for the street.
 Train cleaners wielding worn-sided corn brooms and generic spray bottles marked ''lemon'' or ''Windex'' amble onto the cars, rousting any sleepers and drunks unmoved by the conductor's voice grating through speakers:
 ''This is the last stop on this train.''
 Beyond the station gates, a priest dreams of a vineyard. A car bursts into flame. An ancient sign in a boarded-up window opposite the platform reads ''Wrestling Weight.'' A stuffed bear mans a betting window in a struggling OTB parlor. The dead lie in rows uncounted, and the living mourn and wait and work and love and strum guitars on the front stoop, annoying the neighbors. 
 There are 24 stops on the New York City subway system past which you can ride no farther. For those who get off somewhere else -- almost everyone -- the end is just a sign on the train. New Lots: wonder what that's like. Dyre Avenue? Sounds kind of grim. Middle Village -- what is that, a jousting park? As it turns out, the end of the line, like most ends, is a place of abiding mystery.
 At the city's often-threadbare fringes, there is an inescapable sense of lonesomeness. There might be a Last Stop Deli, a forlorn bar, a maintenance yard populated mostly by rows of empty trains. There is, surprisingly often, a cemetery.
 Yet to visit all the system's extremities is to see that the last stop is not a single, monolithic place. There are subway lines that end, logically, where the city runs out of land; lines that end, anticlimactically, where builders ran out of money; even a few that fetch up in bustling downtowns of one sort or another. From the marshy lowlands of Tottenville to the lush hills of Riverdale to the ceaseless clangor of Flushing, the end of the line manages to take in the entire breadth of the city beyond Midtown Manhattan. 
 Putting Down Deeper Roots
 For this survey, every last stop was visited, though not all those visits will be included here. Nor will the last stops on lines like the C and the G, whose endpoints occur along other lines. 
 What better place to begin the tour than at the end of life itself?
 At the turn of the 20th century, Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx was doing fine, really, as a resting place of the wealthy and powerful. But the cemetery fathers smelled action when they heard that the Jerome Avenue subway line might be extended.
 ''From the earliest point in 1910,'' says Susan Olsen, the cemetery's historian, ''our board of trustees are recording in their minutes about their activities with the folks who are building the subway: 'We want that last stop here; we want people to be able to go.' '' 
 Woodlawn was linked to the rest of the city on what is now the No. 4 line in 1916, and business exploded. A sales office opened at the south end of the cemetery to greet the subway traffic. 
 ''We'd meet with you here,'' Ms. Olsen says at an old wood table beneath the gaze of cemetery presidents in musty gilt-framed portraits. Woodlawn became the cemetery of the Harlem Renaissance, permanent home to Duke Ellington and W. C. Handy, father of the blues.
 Woodlawn was hardly the first cemetery to recognize the benefits of mass transit. In the pre-subway era there were a Calvary Cemetery line, a Holy Cross Cemetery line and a Green-Wood Cemetery line. In Middle Village, Queens, at the end of the former Lutheran Cemetery line, now known as the M, stands the Lutheran All Faiths Cemetery. 
 ''We still trust God at All Faiths,'' a sign there says. Another sign notes that the State Division of Cemeteries has pronounced All Faiths ''exceptionally well-operated and maintained.'' A robin perches proudly atop it.
 A few quiet blocks away, the bad boys of Middle Village assemble on Bartholomew Sciacca's stoop. 
 Mr. Sciacca, 25, a deliveryman for the city's health department, picks out chords on an acoustic guitar. His friend Jordan Carfagno, 23, Newport tucked behind ear, fiddles with a lighter. Their band is called Starting Last. Their nemesis is the old lady across the street. She is, they say, driven mad by the guitar's unamplified tinkle.
 ''She doesn't really say anything to us,'' Mr. Sciacca says. ''She just calls the police.''
 ''That's Middle Village,'' Mr. Carfagno says. ''People try to be nice.''
 Following Their Passions
 Where the N and W lines end at Ditmars Boulevard in Astoria, Queens, there is a doorway near the turnstiles marked ''Station Plaza.'' It is often guarded by a man in black pants and a black dress shirt held together with a bobby pin; he has blackened fingernails, which he waves in front of his face while humming continuously.
 Beyond the doorway, a labyrinth of dim halls lined with businesses: electrolysist, lawyer, chiropractor, Internet cafe, cigar store. In ''Serpico,'' Al Pacino's character chases a crook from the subway through Station Plaza, out a fire exit into a parking lot, only to be shot at by the cops. In real life, these days anyway, the main excitement in Station Plaza comes from Silver Age Comics, first store on your right.
 Even by the impressive standards of comic book stores, the staff of Silver Age, custodians of a collection of more than 200,000 magazines, are a rude bunch of geeks, resembling nothing so much as a pack of superannuated teenage dogs. 
 Regular customers come in for a new dose of abuse. ''Hey, Vic,'' Gus Poulakas, the store owner, says to Victor Dong, a conductor on the N train fresh from his shift. ''What would it take for you to leave off coming here?''
 ''Probably the afterlife,'' Mr. Dong says, not looking up from a bin filled with back issues of Hulk and Secret Invasion.
 Back in the station, the humming man, when approached, lowers his hands and introduces himself as Harold Happel, professional singer. He takes a step back and launches into ''Band of Gold,'' not the 1970 Motownish chestnut but a forgotten hit from 1955 that he renders as a sort of one-man doo-wop.
 ''I've never wanted wealth untold,'' he sings in a thin, haunted voice. ''My life has one design, one design: a simple little band of gold, to prove that you are mine.''
 Mr. Happel excuses his hand-waving.
 ''I have an affliction that causes me unbelievable discomfort,'' he says. ''We scratch all day and all night -- we can scratch in rhythm. It takes us all day to do a song.''
 A Karmic Down Payment
 Coming out of the R train at 95th Street, Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, is big-sky country, a wholesome, 1950s-looking neighborhood that appears, if not frozen in amber, kept up -- it worked, so they stuck with it. Down toward the water, town houses with tiny lawns face tidy John Paul Jones Park. Count the cannonballs -- 48 -- near a big black cannon aimed at Staten Island directly across New York Bay.
 Cross over the Belt Parkway into Shore Road Park, and you seem them in the water: four turtles, big as dinner plates, looking for a place to land. They are red-eared sliders, a freshwater species unequipped for the salty bay, doomed by what Allen Salzberg, conservation coordinator of the New York Turtle and Tortoise Society, called ''a clash of the spiritual and the scientific.''
 Some dumped sliders are overgrown pets, Mr. Salzberg said, but most are placed in the water by Buddhists who buy and release them for karmic credit.
 ''Most of the ones tossed into the surrounding waters of New York,'' Mr. Salzberg wrote in an e-mail message, ''wind up taken out to the ocean as the tide goes out to die a slow death.''
 Lady Liberty's Bodyguards
 The day before July 4 is steamy and hot. Tourists pour out of the South Ferry station at the base of Manhattan, where the No. 1 line ends, and make a beeline for the Statue of Liberty boats. Nathaniel Rodriguez, sweating inside his patina-colored Statue of Liberty rubber mask, calls after them: ''How you doing, guys? Picture with the Statue of Liberty? It's free. Small donation.''
 Mr. Rodriguez drapes his flag around an elderly woman from Norway and beams into her daughter's camera. 
 ''Yesterday I was chased out of Battery Park across the street by the Spanish guys,'' Mr. Rodriguez tells a passer-by. A mostly unemployed cook, part-time church janitor and newcomer to the human-statue profession, Mr. Rodriguez complains that he was run off by the Colombian cartel of Statue of Liberty impersonators who have had a lock on the concession for years.
 In Battery Park, mere mention of the upstart Mr. Rodriguez brings Juan Carlos Arias, one of the Colombians, down off his stack of milk crates. ''He's no artist,'' Mr. Arias thunders, ripping off his Statue of Liberty mask like a pro wrestler. ''He's a citizen!'' 
 (Mr. Rodriguez, 48, is indeed a native of Queens.) Mr. Arias points to his city permit, issued to the Human Statue of Liberty General and Artistic Production Corporation. The job, Mr. Arias said, is best done by immigrant artisans. 
 ''I'm protecting the mask, the Statue of Liberty!'' Mr. Arias says. 
 Work, Mourn, Work
 At the end of the No. 6 line in the Bronx, a golden statue of Winged Victory soars above the trees of Pelham Bay Park, beckoning passers-by to Orchard Beach, one of the jewels of the city park system. Closer to the station's gate lies an overlooked gem of municipal architecture, a rotting wood-plank shack painted dark green: the headquarters of Bronx District 10 of the Department of Parks and Recreation. 
 ''This is called the Pelham Bay shack,'' says a veteran parks employee who will not give his name but offers a tour of the building -- the tool storage room lined with shovels and tractor grease; the break room where sandwiches cool in the display refrigerator cast off by the Italian restaurant across the street; the plywood floor listing like the deck of a storm-tossed ship.
 Across from the supervisor's desk, pinned to the wall behind a red, white and green plastic lizard, is a memorial card from the funeral of a man named Kantilal Patel. ''He worked in the deli across the street where we get our coffee,'' the tour guide says. 
 The card offers uncertain comfort: ''If there's another world, he lives in bliss,'' it reads. ''If there's none, he made the best of this.''
 At the deli, the Pelham Bay Mini-Market, the woman behind the counter accepts condolences. ''He died eight months ago,'' she says. ''He had a heart attack. In his sleep.'' A stick of Egyptian Musk incense burns in the display by the Hostess cupcakes.
 Other Lands, and Dimensions
 Past Shea Stadium, across the broad Flushing River, the No. 7 train in Queens plunges into a tunnel and discharges passengers in another country. Station announcements in Mandarin. Markets swarming with people. Mazes of food stalls in the basements of shopping arcades. Liang Pi Chinese Burger.
 On Main Street in Flushing, down the block from the station, Kate Qian holds a sign: ''Quitting Communist Party Service Center.'' The service is provided by the Falun Gong, the spiritual organization outlawed and persecuted in China.
 ''We are helping some people realize that the Chinese Communist Party is the evilest,'' Ms. Qian says, leading the way to a cramped office above a food court, where a worker shows off a notebook filled with signatures and tracking numbers the center has issued to those who have quit the party.
 With 57,000 passengers a day -- an impossible-sounding one person every 1.5 seconds -- Flushing Main Street is the busiest last stop in the system. The emptiest is Rockaway Park/Beach 116th Street on the A line in Queens, with only 850 passengers a day. It is not clear why this would be. Rockaway Park is a fairly lively neighborhood. But a lot of people there drive cars. And perhaps some never leave.
 Two blocks from the station, in Tribute Park, a plump, oracular-looking man in a tie-dyed tank top sits on a bench by the water, sipping an off-brand beer, smoking an off-brand cigarette. 
 ''Let me tell you something,'' the man says. ''You're in a coma, you have dreams, one after the other. You don't hear anything, you don't see anything, but you think you're walking around. I seen an orgy in an emergency room. On an airplane. And I had a six-inch-tall woman sitting on a shelf, sitting there, singing rock 'n' roll to keep me happy.''
 He sports silver mutton chops and dark shades. His tank top says ''psychedelic beach club.'' ''They call me Elvis,'' he says.
 Across from Elvis's bench, a tiny duckling hops along the brick walkway inscribed with names of the 9/11 dead -- Top Notch Dad Edwart T. Good. Al Shea, All American. 
 Two Russian women scoop the duckling up in a pink shirt. ''Little thing is shaking,'' one woman says as they head back to the street.
 ''Good thing they're leaving,'' Elvis says. ''I gotta make wee-wee.'' He steps through a gazebo and faces the bay.
 Amusements and Distractions
 The glassy new Stillwell Avenue terminal for the D, F, N and Q lines at Coney Island in Brooklyn is said to evoke the Gare St.-Lazare in Paris. It cost $300 million, and according to New York City Transit officials, it is the largest subway station in the world. The old station was a gaping masterpiece of stalactited decrepitude that somehow seemed more fitting, nicely mirroring the seedy ambience of the Coney Island Boardwalk. 
 Out on the Boardwalk, the barker at the Shoot the Freak paintball game lays it out in plain language: ''We got a live human target. He's a freak, he runs around and you shoot him, boom.''
 ''I'll show you some sharpshooting,'' the shirtless guy in the F.D.N.Y. ball cap says. ''I was in the Marines in Vietnam. I've just got to have a little of this first.'' He opens a palm to reveal a hand-rolled cigarette. 
 ''Yeah, loosen up your muscles,'' says the manager, Jason Neufeld. 
 The freak himself, Eric Gonzalez, 18, who goes by Kaze, prefers to take his lumps straight. ''Just keep a clear mind and it'll get you through the day,'' he says.
 Behind the subway terminal at the OTB parlor on Neptune Avenue, things are less festive. Shaky hands shove crumpled bills under the window in exchange for betting slips that wind up losers on the floor moments later. But not at Window 7, where an efficient-looking stuffed bear in a brown vest sits in the teller's swivel chair. In a bid to stave off the closings that loom for many parlors, the branch manager, Michael Mellon, has pared staff to the bone.
 ''I'm hoping in this day and age, the mom-and-pop OTBs that have the character of the neighborhood can survive,'' Mr. Mellon says. ''You have retired people spending time, people socializing. You wonder what these people would be doing if there wasn't an OTB here.'' 
 God Helps Those...
 On the wall of the F station at 179th Street in Jamaica, Queens, spelled out in white and blue mosaic tile, is the legend ''Monastery and Retreat House,'' accompanied by an arrow pointing down Hillside Avenue.
 A block up the hill, there it sprawls, the 12-acre terra-cotta-roofed compound of the Passionist Monastery of the Immaculate Conception and Bishop Molloy Retreat House.
 The rector, the Rev. Peter Grace, explains that people come to the Roman Catholic monastery to confess things they dare not tell their parish priest. ''You get some people who're really on the edge,'' Father Grace says. ''You recommend counseling, and they go, 'I've been to counseling.' You say medication, 'I'm already on medication.' '' He adds, ''We got a lot of priests who come here for confession.''
 Though this niche would seem to guarantee the monastery's eternal solvency, Immaculate Conception is being squeezed as hard as the rest of the Catholic Church. Money is running out; the 30 brothers who live at the monastery are aging fast. The dormitory hallway, lined with walkers and wheelchairs, evokes a nursing home. Father Grace, a youthful 63, reveals his big idea.
 ''What I need to do is see if we can grow a vineyard here,'' he said. He's thinking ecotourism. ''It would bring in some money,'' he says, and nods toward the Catholic high school for girls across the street. ''Once a year we'll get the virgins from Mary Louis to stomp the grapes.''
 Signs of the End
 Some last stops seem to specialize in curious signage. ''De 'BASE' Beauty Salon,'' a storefront next to a car service proclaims on Dyre Avenue in the Bronx, where the No. 5 line ends. At the No. 2 line's terminus nearby, White Plains Road is a treasure trail leading from Bah General Merchandise to the shuttered headquarters of the A & M Pasta Laboratorio Corporation to a tan-brick factory marked ''Space Age Plastics.'' 
 Two doors from the Anointed Endtime Outreach Tabernacle, a business called Rescue Heating announces itself in stick-on letters of the type often affixed to rural mailboxes. Its 70-ish proprietor, Malcolm Rothman, emerges into the rain to dispense some sound advice. ''There are two paths in life, the good path and the bad path,'' he says. ''Try to stay on the good path.''
 At the end of the No. 3 line in New Lots, Brooklyn, the theme is gloves. On a sultry afternoon, a New York City Transit glove rests on the elevated tracks. Down below on Livonia Avenue, a black rubber glove, slightly dirt-encrusted, crouches defiantly in the middle of the sidewalk. A stippled yellow work glove grips the gate of the Elton Playground. A pair of medical rubber gloves, rolled up together, has been tossed atop the gate of the Saba Deli. 
 Two blocks away, there is a crumbling cemetery. The headstones tell the story of Brooklyn's streets and neighborhoods: Lydia Lott, Van Siclen, Eldert, Vanderveer, Rapelje, Cosine, Conover. Beside the graveyard, a sign on an old wooden church reads, ''You are invited here. Pastor Rev. Awkward.'' 
 The Rev. D'Lafayette Awkward is not in, and declines to respond to phone messages.
 At the end of the line, explanations are seldom forthcoming.
 The McDonald's parking lot across from the Wakefield Avenue-241st Street station on the No. 2 line in the Bronx, 6:30 on a Monday evening: Ocia Lewis stares forlornly at what was very recently his maroon 1991 Cadillac Sedan DeVille. It is a smoldering shell, tires melted, windows broken by firefighters in their zeal to extinguish the flames that devoured his car.
 ''I just drove here -- get a burger, go inside, come back out -- and my car was on fire,'' says Mr. Lewis, a roofer. Passing teenagers stop to pose for pictures by the wreckage. ''This is weird,'' Mr. Lewis says.
 As the Staten Island Railway nudges into the Tottenville station in the city's southwest corner, the doors open onto a becalmed coastal scene: brackish water, pilings worn to ragged toothpicks. At the shoreline, sheets of seaweed lie flattened and dried against black rock like tissue clung to bone. A single tiny crab scuttles across a stone. A metal washer, so eaten away by rust and algae and the sea that it could be an ancient coin, bobbles in the tide. 
 And Then What?
 In front of the Rockaway Parkway station building at the end of the L line in Canarsie, Brooklyn, a girl stands forlornly holding a bouquet of shiny birthday balloons. 
 On the parkway itself, the signs are everywhere: Fixed Ends 2 Barbershop; Cake Enz West Indian Bakery. Up a cockeyed red-carpeted stairway from a going-out-of-business clothing store is the lair of Miss Rose, Spiritual Reader and Adviser. 
 Miss Rose wears a green stone around her neck and a sorrowful expression. Wisps of oranged hair fall around her thin face as she sits at the table in the hallway outside her apartment. 
 For $5, she agrees, reluctantly, to answer one question. The question is: What comes after the end? 
 Miss Rose delivers a lengthy disquisition on life's suffering, then circles back.
 ''The question you asked, I don't answer that here,'' she says. ''I'm moving to another place soon. I can answer it there. That reading costs $100.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: L TO CANARSIE: Near this terminus in southeast Brooklyn, the names of businesses riff on the theme: Fixed Ends 2 Barbershop
Cake Enz West Indian Bakery.
D, F, N, Q TO CONEY ISLAND: After the sun goes down, the Wonder Wheel casts its glow on parcels being cleared for redevelopment.
A TO 207TH STREET: It's not the end of World War II, but the pace of Manhattan lets up a bit on Broadway in Inwood.
NO. 6 TO PELHAM BAY PARK: Where thruway meets expressway meets parkway in the Bronx, the park offers a respite.
Trains at the station on Rockaway Parkway rest up before heading back toward Manhattan.(A29)
NOS. 2 AND 5 TO FLATBUSH AVE.
NO. 2 TO WAKEFIELD
NO. 6 TO PELHAM BAY PARK: Commercial churn in Brooklyn, top, has a counterpoint in the tranquillity of the towering Bronx Victory Column, a memorial to fallen service members.
NO. 1 TO VAN CORTLANDT PARK: In the upper reaches of the Bronx, top, Ocia Lewis puzzled over his car's combustion. A few miles away, a weather-worn elevated station provided a haven.
NO. 3 TO 148TH STREET: Joshua Ortiz, a newly minted graduate of the eighth grade, celebrates in Harlem.
D TO 205TH STREET: Urban canvases abound where the train stops in the Norwood section of the Bronx.
NO. 3 TO 148TH STREET: Sharing the view in Harlem with a bust of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.(A32)
NO. 1 TO SOUTH FERRY
D TO 205TH STREET
NO. 3 TO NEW LOTS AVE.:Adventures on and in the water: at Battery Park, top, with the Statue of Liberty beckoning in the distance, and curbside in eastern Brooklyn.
NO. 4 TO WOODLAWN: In the Bronx, work and play intersect in Norwood, top. Woodlawn Cemetery is the end of the line for many luminaries as well as subway passengers.
A TO FAR ROCKAWAY: At a terminus in Far Rockaway, Queens, a vacant building and a deli whose name says it all.
D, F, N, Q TO CONEY ISLAND: On the Boardwalk, where visitors can satisfy a sweet tooth, get a tan and fire paintballs at a live human target.
 A TO 207TH STREET: At the top of Manhattan, where those who have ridden up to 31 miles hear, ''This is the last stop on this train.''(A33)(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); HISTORY (69%); WORLD WAR II (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



594 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Concerns Keep Indexes Lower

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A rally on Friday wasn't enough to keep the stock market in positive territory for the week.
 Bleak economic reports -- including data showing that wholesale inflation in July reached a 9.8 percent annual rate -- hammered the market most of the week, as did speculation about the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the troubled mortgage giants. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 31.84 points, or 0.27 percent, to close at 11,628.06. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6 points, or 0.46 percent, to close at 1,292.2. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 37.81 points, or 1.54 percent, to close at 2,414.71. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.87 percent from 3.84 percent the previous week. The futures price of a barrel of crude in New York settled at $114.59, up from $113.77 the previous week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



595 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: What You Need To Know Before You Rent

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
RENTING an apartment in New York City can seem incredibly daunting. But clearly, it's not impossible -- about two thirds of New Yorkers rent their homes, according to 2006 census data, and although the vacancy rate is relatively low, there are always thousands of apartments on the market. 
 The current vacancy rate in Manhattan for all residential rental buildings with five units or more is 3.6 percent, according to Property and Portfolio Research, a real estate research and advisory firm. That translates to more than 15,000 available apartments. 
 The question is, how do you find the one that is right for you? 
 The first step is to be brutally honest about how much you can spend and then to look at apartments in that price range. 
 In all New York City buildings with five units or more, the average asking rental price is about $2,700 a month, according to Property and Portfolio Research. In Brooklyn, the average is about $2,400 and in Manhattan it is near $4,000. (By contrast, in comparable buildings in Washington, the average rent is $1,500, and in sections of Boston where most of the universities and transportation stops are, it is around $1,700.)
 Renters of one-bedrooms in Manhattan could expect to pay $2,691, on average, according to the July listings by Citi Habitats, though that figure has jumped to $3,462 in a doorman building.
 For decades, the big prize has been the rent-stabilized apartment, where rent increases are regulated annually by the city and state. Although the number of these apartments has steadily declined -- largely because after they reach a certain rent level they are taken out of regulation -- rent-stabilized apartments make up about half of all rental apartments in the city and about a third of the 3.26 million units of housing over all.
 People living in regulated units tend to stay there longer than those in market-rate apartments. Still, roughly 10 percent of stabilized units turn over each year, according to the New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey in 2005, the most recent available. 
 When those apartments do become available, some of them can be switched to market-rate status. Under the laws, deregulation can take place if the rent exceeds $2,000 a month (and if the tenants earn more than $175,000 annually for two consecutive years).
 While regulated apartments are a bargain in pricey areas, in less expensive neighborhoods the maximum legal stabilized rent may be more than the market rate for the apartment. In that case, the landlord will usually charge less than he is legally allowed.
 ''So why does it feel like there aren't any regulated apartments?'' asked Vicki Been, the director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. ''In some areas of the city, the difference between the market rate and the regulated rent is really nonexistent.''
 Landlords and city officials suggest that people often find stabilized apartments simply by word of mouth. 
 The Rent Guidelines Board has a list of buildings on its Web site (housingnyc.com) that have at least one stabilized apartment. (In the ''Housing Resources'' section, select ''Stabilized Building List.'') There is a separate list for each borough, which is organized by ZIP code. You can search for a desired street and then scroll through the addresses looking for a particular building. (The listing does not disclose whether there are stabilized units available for rent in those buildings.)
 Andrew McLaughlin, the executive director of the Rent Guidelines Board, suggests that renters ask building managers or superintendents if any regulated units will be available soon. On Craigslist, using the keyword search for ''stabilized'' may produce listings, too.
 Real estate brokers might have stabilized apartments to rent as well. ''It exists, but it's certainly not the biggest part of the business,'' said Gary L. Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. 
 Using a broker might be the easiest and most efficient way to find a rental, but the convenience comes at a price. In Manhattan, brokers often charge 15 percent of the first year's rent, according to Klara Madlin, the president of the Manhattan Association of Realtors. 
 Real estate brokers have access to more apartment listings and can offer guidance to clients on how to make themselves the most appealing applicants. Sometimes, they can help negotiate with the owner. 
 The Rent Guidelines Board also has a list of Web sites to help with the search, including Apartment Source, Metro List Express (MLX), CityRealty.com, StreetEasy.com and Craigslist. They range from free online bulletin boards to services that require registration and fees. (That list is available in the ''Apartment Guide'' section of its Web site under ''Finding an Apartment.'') 
 Be ready, though, to pounce when the right listing is found. ''You don't get a second chance to make a good first impression -- come prepared,'' said Jerry Weinstein, the founder and president of Manhattan Apartments. 
 Mr. Weinstein suggests having a letter from an employer, two pay stubs and enough cash to cover the first and last month's rent and a security deposit. Some landlords also request income tax returns. And, of course, you should be prepared to undergo a credit check.
 In general, a New York City landlord will want a renter to earn at least 40 times the monthly rent each year -- so if the rent is $1,000 a month, you should make at least $40,000, experts say. If you don't, or if you have bad credit, you should line up a guarantor -- who will usually be responsible for the lease if you fail to pay the rent -- who earns at least 80 times the monthly rent. A guarantor who is a family member or someone who lives in the metropolitan area is often viewed as a bonus. 
 When the application is approved, it's time to peruse the lease. One thing you might ask for is a specific mention of when you will receive your security deposit at the end of the lease -- 30 to 60 days is reasonable. You can also ask for an option to renew or an early termination clause. Many leases in New York City, however, are take it or leave it. 
 ''Negotiating? It depends on how good the market is,'' said Nicholas Petras, who owns a dozen buildings in New York City and is the president of a trade organization for apartment building owners called the Community Housing Improvement Program. 
 Mr. Malin of Citi Habitats says landlords are currently being more flexible about the rent, either by asking for lower rents in the first place or offering signing incentives, like paying the brokers' fee. But in more popular places like SoHo or the West Village, you may have a difficult time bargaining.
 If you decide to negotiate with a landlord over the rent, make sure to present yourself as the best possible candidate, with your finances in good order. It can help to be able to move in quickly, and to make only reasonable requests. (A 25 percent reduction in the rent might not fall into the ''reasonable'' category.) 
 Once a lease is signed, however, there are services you have a right to expect, experts say. The apartment owner is responsible, for example, for providing smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, repairing cracks in the sidewalk and ensuring that your home is safe for young children, which means window bars and no lead paint. The landlord must also repaint every three years and make available basic services like heat and hot water. 
 What if something breaks inside the apartment? Landlords are typically responsible for repairing and maintaining permanent fixtures like toilets. If they don't do so in a timely manner, you can report the problem to 311. 
 Tenants have to keep their end of the bargain as well, and that essentially means paying the rent on time. Otherwise, they could face eviction. 
 In general, you cannot be evicted in New York without being taken to court, and those proceedings usually take several months. Your lease might be up by the time the court proceedings have concluded. 
 What if you want to leave temporarily? In most cases, under New York State law, you have the right to sublet the apartment. 
 Sarah Calabi and her husband, Gregory Woods, are hoping to sublet their rent-stabilized apartment in Astoria, Queens, while Mr. Woods gets his master's degree at Princeton University. ''It's been challenging to find out what the rules are,'' Ms. Calabi said. 
 The landlord has to approve the arrangement in advance, but the parameters are vague as to what constitutes a reasonable rejection. 
 In general, according to state law, eligible renters must live in a building with four or more units and provide subletters who can pay the rent (assume that they must meet the same financial requirements as the renter). Subletting for rent-stabilized units is limited to two years in a four-year period. 
 The primary renter is usually responsible for seeing that the rent is paid. You might, therefore, continue paying the landlord yourself and have the subletter write you checks.
 (If your apartment is rent stabilized, your landlord can tack on a 10 percent subleasing surcharge, and if the apartment is fully furnished, you can throw in another 10 percent to cover the wear and tear of your belongings, according to Michael B. Rosenblatt, the assistant commissioner for rent administration at the state Division of Housing and Community Renewal.)
 There is some flexibility built into the law for tenants. For example, you have the right to have your partner or even a roommate move in -- provided there is enough space. (According to the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, tenants must have at least 80 square feet to themselves, excluding bathrooms and hallways, among other things.)
 In other ways, the law is less forgiving. You don't have the right to break a lease, though in some instances a landlord may allow it. ''If the current rent charge on that apartment is significantly below market rent or anywhere near the $2,000-a-month mark,'' said Dov Treiman, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, ''the landlord will be inclined to hand the tenant a bottle of Champagne on their way out.''
 If you're paying more than the prevailing market rate, the landlord is likely to insist that you continue to pay. 
 Rebecca Hood, a real estate analyst originally from Texas, had no trouble leaving her Upper East Side apartment when she moved to Miami with only three weeks' notice this summer. It was a tiny rent-stabilized studio for which she was paying $1,468 a month. ''In my opinion, the rent was under market,'' she said. ''It was almost in my landlord's favor for me to break the lease.'' 
 She found a new tenant and was free to go.
 When you move out, be sure to leave your apartment as you found it or you may not get your deposit back. If you feel that money has been unfairly deducted from the deposit, you can go to small claims court (or, for very large security deposits, to the regular part of the New York City Civil Court). 
 ''New York is a very difficult place to do almost any business transaction,'' said Adam Leitman Bailey, a real estate lawyer. ''But you don't have to be a real estate professional to have a pleasant living experience. Renters should be thankful the law goes so far to protect them.'' 
 Although many new renters are people who cannot afford to buy, others have enough money but are waiting for the market to stabilize. 
 ''You looked at housing prices in the rest of the country and everything was going south,'' said Thomas Elliott, a bond trader at Cantor Fitzgerald who is relocating his family to New York City. ''At some point, my thinking was, New York was going to have a similar trend as the rest of the country.''
 Instead of buying an apartment when they moved from Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Elliott and his wife, Lark, have rented an apartment on the Upper East Side. 
 The Elliotts aren't the only ones sitting on the fence. ''We're getting a sense that there's a number of people sitting it out to see what happens,'' said Fritz Frigan, an executive director of sales and leasing for Halstead Property. ''But they must have a home, so we will have some influx in demand to the rental market.''
 That will not, however, ''have an effect on rental prices,'' Mr. Frigan said. They are more dependent on the job market and the overall economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TEMPORARY MOVES: Gregory Woods and his wife, Sarah Calabi, are hoping to sublet their rent-stabilized apartment in Astoria, Queens.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); CENSUS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



596 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: War and Peace

BYLINE: By MAX RODENBECK. 
Max Rodenbeck is the Middle East correspondent for The Economist.

 BODY:
A PATH OUT OF THE DESERT
 A Grand Strategy for America in the Middle East
 By Kenneth M. Pollack
 539 pp. Random House. $30
 Back in 2002, I ran into one of the Brookings Institution's top Middle East hands at the inaugural session of the United States-Islamic World Forum, a now annual event that Brookings sponsors jointly with the government of Qatar. ''How's it going?'' I asked, expecting to hear about clashing misperceptions across the cultural divide. ''Good,'' came the gruff reply. ''They're beginning to realize that they are the problem.'' 
 Reading this big, ambitious book by Kenneth M. Pollack, who is the head of research at Brookings's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, it is hard not to wish that what he refers to as Washington's ''policy community'' would more often realize that they are the problem. It would have been nice, for instance, had Pollack himself thought harder before arguing, in scholarly papers and his widely read 2002 book, ''The Threatening Storm,'' that America had ''no choice'' but to invade Iraq. That ostensibly sober appraisal, coming from a former C.I.A. analyst, Clinton official and self-described liberal, arguably added more gravitas to the shrill cries for war than any other voice. 
 Pollack has long since confessed to having been wrong about Iraq. ''A Path Out of the Desert'' includes other mea culpas. ''There has been far too little asking the people of the region themselves what they thought and what they wanted,'' he ruminates at one point, though the book offers slim evidence of his having pursued this advice. While the administration that Pollack served gets some light wrist-slapping, it is the following eight years of Bush policy that he calls ''breathtakingly arrogant, ignorant and reckless.'' 
 Many of Pollack's other judgments are as sound as is this criticism of the Bush administration. Since most of the post-cold-war world has stabilized, democratized and prospered, it is probably correct to suggest, as he does, that America should commit itself to helping the messy Middle East come up to par. 
 His proposal of a Grand Strategy to achieve this, which is to say a generation-long effort of a scale and intensity similar to America's engagement with Europe after World War II, is challenging but not irrational, given the world's growing dependency on Middle Eastern oil. And Pollack is right to say that violence and tyranny are not hard-wired into Islam, and to conclude that the threat of Islamist terror has been overblown. He is also right that internal unrest in Middle Eastern states is quite likely to be a strategic threat, and that this danger will not pass until they manage to produce better schools, more opportunities for youth, wider social justice and more inclusive, accountable government. He is correct, too, in describing the region's current regimes as singularly awful, and even in admitting that George Bush showed unwonted acuity when he called for draining the swamps of extremism by promoting reform. 
 The argument weakens when Pollack tries to prescribe just what America can do to cure the Middle East. Much of his suggested treatment consists of vague outlines and policy homilies. Out of nearly 500 pages, very few describe concrete measures for how to achieve such things as spreading democracy or upgrading education in the face of governments that mistrust reform and peoples that mistrust America. Among other things, he proposes to increase military aid to friendly regimes. This, he says, can create a kind of golden leash that makes governments more compliant to American wishes. 
 But surely, one can't help gasping, the last thing more guns will bring is political reform. And surely, those Arabs are not so dumb that they don't read this stuff. Elsewhere, he suggests tying aid to Egypt to the lifting of the country's notorious emergency law. Perhaps he is unaware that Congress has already tried conditioning aid on reform, or that the Egyptians, who have grown skilled at circumventing tiresome Western admonishments, have already amended their constitution to incorporate ''emergency'' strictures under ordinary law. One is left with the impression that should a Democratic administration hire Pollack to try his Grand Strategy, he might soon be reduced to throwing ''spaghetti against the wall'' to ''see if it sticks,'' as he quotes a rueful Bush official describing that team's effort to reform the Middle East. 
 Beyond the reform promotion agenda, which is the book's main thrust, Pollack is surprisingly reticent about the most pressing current issues, namely how to get out of Iraq and what to do about Iran (though in recent op-ed essays he has made it clear that he worries about pulling out of Iraq too quickly). In fact, he simply sketches well-known policy options without passing judgment. And, sadly, this thick book's thinness in ideas is not its only flaw. 
 Pollack raises loud alarms, for instance, over the Middle East's high rates of population growth, urbanization and joblessness. Actually, these are decades-old trends. He fails to note that population growth rates have plunged in recent years. Some scholars even assert that this phase of ''demographic transition,'' in which there is a relatively high ratio of working-age people to young or old dependents, should accelerate the region's economic growth just as it did America's in the late 19th century, and East Asia's more recently. 
 Pollack commits errors that, despite his years in the corridors of power and some 70 pages of footnotes, betray a lack of genuine intimacy with his subject. It is not true, as he asserts, that education in the Persian Gulf emirates is largely private. Nor is it true, any longer, that virtually the only foreign investment in Arab countries goes toward pumping more oil: real estate, tourism, banking, telecoms and even heavy industry now lure investors, too. 
 It is an outdated generalization to state that ''Arab bureaucracies . . . create interminable delays with customs regulations, inspections and other red tape.'' Try telling that to Dubai Ports World, a company that runs 45 container terminals in 29 countries, or to the operators of the giant, state-of-the-art transshipment hubs in Egypt and Morocco that are set to dominate Mediterranean trade. It is even more misleading to assert that ''the Arab regimes have implicitly or explicitly backed a range of terrorist groups.'' Pray, which Arab governments does he mean, and which groups is he talking about? 
 Pollack also shows a shaky grasp of history. We know that the Ottoman Empire declined and fell, but to have endured for five centuries, and for half those as the biggest state in Europe, the Mediterranean and the Middle East, does not make the Ottomans ''unsuccessful.'' Elsewhere he tells us sagely that ''over time, the stagnation of the Arab economies has created considerable poverty,'' as if there were no poor Arabs before, and as if one of the most startling modern examples of mass impoverishment was not the Clinton-era sanctions on Iraq, which destroyed its middle class and set the stage for postwar chaos. 
 America gets off rather lightly in general, in Pollack's account, compared with the sad Arabs whom we must help to be like us. We are told, for instance, that the United States only grudgingly became involved in the grisly Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s when it nobly undertook to reflag oil tankers in order to protect the flow of oil. No mention here of Donald Rumsfeld's back-slapping with Saddam Hussein or the supply of satellite intelligence to him or the exchange of American weapons to Iran for hostages -- all of which helped prolong the slaughter. 
 Pollack seems oddly unaware of history's motivating forces. To assert that ''what triggers revolutions, civil wars and other internal unrest is psychological factors, particularly feelings of extreme despair,'' is plain silly. The Boston Tea Party could not have been prevented by Prozac. Similarly, he ascribes feelings to broad categories of Middle Easterners, devoid of any context or explanation. They are ''angry populations'' who suffer ''inchoate frustration'' and ''a pathological hatred of the status quo.'' We repeatedly hear of ''Arab rage at Israel'' and ''Arab venom for Israel.'' Nowhere is there a hint that such attitudes might bear some relation to the plight of the Palestinians, the agony of military defeat or the humiliation of life under Israeli occupation. 
 In fact, the book's most salient distortions stem from Pollack's protectiveness toward Israel. He makes some absurdly cockeyed assertions, like, ''America's support for Israel over the years has even been a critical element in winning and securing Arab allies.'' He offers misleading false alternatives, declaring, for instance, that there is ''absolutely no reason to believe that ending American support for Israel would somehow eliminate'' the risk of Islamist zealots taking power and cutting oil exports. How about making aid to Israel, and not just to Arabs, conditional, or aiming at mitigating, rather than eliminating, such risks? Pollack makes a peculiarly acrobatic effort to prove that hostility to Israel is not a prime motivating factor behind militant jihadism, repeating this assertion no fewer than four times in two paragraphs. Has he not bothered to listen to Osama bin Laden's addresses to the American people, where he said that what converted him from dreamer to murderous activist was Israeli bombs falling on Beirut in 1982? 
 Even more disingenuously, Pollack repeats the myth that Al Qaeda has never attacked Israel. One might argue that its bombings of synagogues in Djerba and Istanbul, and against Jewish targets in Casablanca, in which dozens of people died, were anti-Semitic rather than anti-Israeli. But the November 2002 attacks in Kenya were aimed specifically at Israeli tourists. Thirteen people, among them three Israelis, died in a resort hotel, and had the missiles fired simultaneously at an Israeli charter plane with 261 passengers aboard not missed, this would have been Al Qaeda's goriest ''success'' since the twin towers. This may seem like nit-picking, particularly since Pollack is, after all, on the side of those who believe it is in America's own interest to make peace between Israelis and Arabs, or at least to pretend to try. 
 What is troubling about Pollack's view, which is fairly representative of his fellow liberal interventionists, who are likely to be in power soon, is its lack of clarity. Can't we just admit that American support for Israel is strategically burdensome and is driven by the passion of several domestic constituencies rather than cold cost-benefit geopolitics? Can't we see that the temptation to intervene in places like the Middle East arises as much because ''they'' are weak as because ''we'' are just and noble? No matter what good will America's ''policy community'' proclaims toward the Middle East, this mix of blinkered indulgence of Israel and disdain for the rest of the region, as well as a predilection for Wilsonian dreams over achievable goals, suggests we will remain in the wilderness for some time to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Israeli Army investigators at the scene of a hotel bombing in Kenya, November 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEDRO UGARTE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.BR8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFFREY DECOSTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); COLD WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIGION (72%); WORLD WAR II (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); IRAQ (92%); QATAR (92%); EUROPE (79%); KENYA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

TITLE: Path Out of the Desert, A (Book)>; Path Out of the Desert, A (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



597 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Higher Fees for Mortgages

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MORTGAGE rates are typically driven by the financial market's outlook for long-term interest rates, but not always. Policy changes at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored companies that buy most mortgages issued by United States lenders, recently helped drive that point home.
 This month, Fannie and Freddie increased the fees they charge lenders for many loans, effectively bumping up interest rates for many borrowers who have marginal credit. The companies also tightened their policies on refinance loans that enable an owner to take cash out of a home. 
 Fannie Mae was the first of the two mortgage companies to increase its fees for lenders, doubling its current charge on most loans, to a half of one percentage point, and Freddie quickly followed with similar fee changes. Professionals expect lenders to pass these charges along to borrowers by increasing the mortgage rates they quote. 
 This doesn't mean every new consumer loan will increase by a half point, though. First, the policy applies only for borrowers with credit scores lower than 680. Credit rating agencies do not disclose ''average'' credit score figures, but the Fair Isaac Corporation, whose software is used by many credit rating agencies, said the median score was about 723.
 Also, since lenders will spread that charge over four or five years -- the average duration of a loan until a home is sold or a loan is refinanced -- the rate increase will amount to only about one-eighth of a point. On a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage of $250,000, that charge will bump up the borrower's monthly payment from $1,559.57 at 6.375 percent to $1,580.17 at 6.5 percent.
 Those buying homes will have little choice but to absorb the cost. But the new policies will be felt more by those thinking of refinancing mortgages. Such loans have grown less attractive in recent months, as 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rates pushed beyond the 6.5 percent range. (As of Thursday, the average rate was 6.54 percent in the Northeast, according to Freddie Mac.)
 Personal finance specialists advise homeowners to consider refinancing their mortgages when interest rates drop well below the loan's existing rate.
 To help decide, borrowers should determine the cost of a new mortgage at current rates, then, using the amount saved monthly, calculate how long it would take to recoup the cost of refinancing; they should proceed with the refinancing only if they are fairly sure they will be in the home that long. (Closing costs for refinanced mortgages are about $3,000 in the New York City area for a mortgage of $200,000, although New York City co-ops incur additional taxes of $3,600.)
 Many owners with long-term mortgages refinanced their loans when interest rates were below 6 percent in recent years. Now that rates are inching higher, the only reasons that one might refinance a loan at a higher rate, lenders and brokers said, would be to extract cash or to shift from an adjustable-rate loan to a fixed-rate one. But Fannie and Freddie's recent policy changes have reduced the number of people who qualify for such transactions.
 Even those with excellent credit will not be able to take cash out of their homes if, after the loan, they have less than 15 percent equity in the homes. Previously, the threshold was 10 percent, and people with low credit scores could not get such deals.
 Thatcher Zuse, president of Sound Mortgage, a Connecticut mortgage brokerage firm, said that on a $400,000 home, the changes reduce the equity available to owners by $20,000, on top of any decline in home value. ''A lot of people have already cashed out,'' he said, ''but for the ones who haven't, this takes a lot of money off the table.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate. (Source: HSH Associates) Chart details line graph for 30 year and 15 year fixed rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (84%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



598 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Workers and Employers, Seeing Past a Disability

BYLINE: As told to PATRICIA R. OLSEN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
IN the workplace, the challenges for people with disabilities can have much to do with others' understanding of their abilities, goals and needs. Here, three workers tell of the challenges, describe the many rewards of their careers and offer advice to others.
 DANIEL MCILWAIN,27, is a network engineer at the Computer Sciences Corporation in Falls Church, Va.: 
 I was burned in an apartment fire when I was young and lost half of my right arm and three fingers on my left hand. I have an upbeat attitude about it. I figure that people who have a problem with physical appearances just haven't grown up. 
 I worked at Computer Sciences on two temporary assignments from 2003 to 2005, and then the company offered me a staff job. I've been here ever since. I just changed jobs and am now a network engineer, responsible for ensuring that employees are connected to the network and shared drives. Prior to that, I was a desktop technician, visiting employees' offices when they had a problem with a laptop or a PC. I also fixed printers and performed software upgrades. 
 I'm very relaxed here. I enjoy the work. 
 Job-hunting wasn't easy. I taught myself how to do things from an early age, but not many companies would give me a chance. At times it was one long drought. I went on dozens of interviews, and I could tell in the first few minutes how it was going to go by the way the interviewer looked at me. Many interviews were short, with little description of the job.
 Even when people said they'd call if they chose someone else, they never did. But I don't hold anything against those people. I figure that you can't stop success. If the talent is in you, it's in you. I also feel that we're all disabled in one way or another. Sometimes the disability is on the inside; sometimes it's on the outside. My faith gets me by, too.
 Interviewers have sometimes asked me whether I need special equipment. My answer to them is, ''No, just give me a paycheck.'' 
 ADAM NOVSAM, 41, is an analyst in the energy and resource management department at Starbucks in Seattle: 
 I was born profoundly deaf. My job involves monitoring utility use for all Starbucks locations in North America. I use a video relay service on my computer to communicate by phone with company employees and a host of others: vendors, landlords, utility companies and property managers.
 I dial into the service, and an American Sign Language interpreter appears in a window on my computer monitor. That person can see me by Webcam. The interpreter translates into spoken language what I'm signing to the person on the other end of the phone line and then reverses the process for me. It's not much more time-consuming than a regular phone conversation.
 Those of us who are disabled sometimes see one another in a different light, depending on what our disability is. I'm communications-disabled and live in a totally visual world. Other disabilities are very dissimilar. A hearing person's first language may be English; mine is American Sign Language.
 I would tell people with a disability to maintain clarity when it comes to their goals -- and to go for it. I worked for three companies before Starbucks, and not all of them were as accommodating. One company assigned me tasks far below my abilities. I couldn't stay. When I told them all the reasons I was quitting, I think I left them with some lessons about deaf people.
 For example, they would sometimes call an impromptu meeting when no interpreter was available, which meant I was effectively left out. With lip-reading, only about 30 percent of sounds are comprehensible. Add in an accent and I'm really at a loss. I can't understand much at all when there's a room full of people.
 It's a difficult decision to leave a job, because the unemployment rate for the disabled is very high. It's not the same commitment as when a hearing person decides to quit. I can't imagine joining that pool again. 
 At Starbucks, I'm the treasurer of the company's Access Alliance, a support group for people with disabilities. I started with the company as an accounts-payable representative and have been promoted five times in the eight years I've been here. I think that says it all.
 ANDREA EDWARDS, 33, works at the Gay Men's Health Crisis in Manhattan: 
 I live in the Bronx. When I was 14, I was hit in the head by a brick while walking down the street where I live. Some kids in an abandoned building were throwing bricks out of the windows. I started seeing things in slow motion and passed out a few minutes later. The doctors said I might suffer from headaches, but that would be the worst thing that would happen.
 They were wrong. I was a straight-A student, and I hoped to be a lawyer or a judge one day, but everything changed after that day. I've since learned that I suffered a traumatic brain injury, which people didn't know much about at the time. I started having seizures and received a diagnosis of epilepsy at age 17. I lost my memory and became depressed. I didn't finish high school and I couldn't work. I developed anger-management issues.
 In 2005, to improve my memory, I went to counseling and classes at the International Center for the Disabled in Manhattan. I was also re-evaluated at the N.Y.U. Comprehensive Epilepsy Center and got different medication. My seizures stopped. I got my G.E.D. and am about to start community college. I started volunteering at the Gay Men's Health Crisis last July, and the group hired me in August.
 I help clients with rental assistance, and I inspect apartments to make sure they're clean and safe for our clients. I'm ecstatic that I can finally work. It feels so good to see that doors are opening.
 I'd like people with a disability to know that where there's a will there's a way. Those around them need to understand that everyone deserves a chance. My goal is to become a social worker and to help people with disabilities. I have to take it easy because it's been only three years since my last seizure. But I planned to go to work first and then start school, and I'm doing it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel McIlwain, 27, was injured long ago in a fire and now works as a network engineer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); DEAFNESS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (65%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (84%)

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



599 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: After a Downsizing, How to Motivate?

BYLINE: By KELLEY HOLLAND. 
E-mail: newmanage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DOWNSIZING. Restructuring. Headcount reduction. Whatever they are called, layoffs instill dread, guilt or both in managers. The loss of a job is among life's most traumatic events, and even many hard-nosed managers hate to force that experience on their colleagues. 
 Because of this, managers can become so consumed by the prospect of firing people that they fail to adequately reassure and remotivate the employees who remain. 
 But they make this mistake at their peril. Study after study has found that employers who eliminate jobs may not bolster productivity over the long run. Too often, their anxious and overworked remaining employees become risk-averse and unproductive, or leave for other jobs. As companies hire new workers or turn to outside vendors to compensate, the short-term savings from layoffs can evaporate. 
 The wobbly economy is producing a steady stream of layoff announcements -- the number of extended mass layoffs rose 8 percent in the second quarter, based on preliminary numbers, versus the period a year earlier. So it's more important than ever for managers to understand how best to handle these downsizings, not just for those who lose their jobs, but also for those who are still working.
 Some experts believe that workers have developed a certain amount of resiliency after decades of corporate firings and layoffs. That may be true for some of them, but others are still hit hard when co-workers lose their jobs, and managers need to let each employee process the cutback in a way that seems appropriate.
 Warren Bennis, a professor of management at the University of Southern California and the author of ''On Becoming a Leader,'' laid out a core precept for managers dealing with layoffs.
 ''Respect is the key word,'' Professor Bennis said. Too often, he said, ''business today just seems to be so callous.'' 
 He decried bureaucracies that ''lay down edicts'' about cutbacks and treat employees as if they were invisible or indistinguishable -- the opposite, he said, of respecting them, which in essence means seeing them clearly and individually. 
 ''It seems to me that the main job of any leader is to help define reality,'' Professor Bennis said. Leaders who can help employees understand the reasons for layoffs, and also acknowledge the pain incurred, will have a better shot at rebuilding trust and motivating those who remain.
 Employees need to hear right away where cutbacks are being made, and whether additional reductions are coming. Many employees wonder about the fairness of layoffs, and managers can go a long way toward re-establishing trust if they can describe sacrifices of their own, like pay cuts or forgone bonuses.
 Managers also need to listen to employees' reactions to layoffs. This can help employees move on and focus on new responsibilities and objectives.
 For example, ComPsych, a provider of employee assistance programs, runs seminars at companies that have eliminated jobs; the first half of the program often consists of employees talking about their reactions to the layoffs, said Anita Madison, the company's vice president for training and consulting. 
 Articulating an organization's goals is particularly important during layoffs. Some managers solicit employee ideas about how to reach those goals. That can help with motivation -- especially when employees are being asked to do more with less. 
 ''Often the first casualty in a downsizing is employee morale,'' said Wayne F. Cascio, a professor of management at the University of Colorado, Denver, who has studied the effect of layoffs on productivity. Employees who outlast a round of staff cuts, Professor Cascio said, ''are looking for signals, and they want to know how they are going to be better off.''
 ''They want to know if they have a future,'' he added. 
 Any organization can reach out to employees after layoffs, but sometimes the process can be simpler in smaller settings.
 Reflexite, a maker of reflective safety products and films, laid off more than half of the 75 employees in one division in 2002, said Michael F. Foley, the president and chief executive. The division had lost its biggest customer, and the weak economy was impeding the search for replacements.
 Mr. Foley recalled gathering the division's remaining employees on the day of the layoffs.
 ''We got everyone together and said: 'Here's what we did, here's why, and we don't intend to do any more. And here is the expected outcome,''' he said. Managers also described the pay and other benefits that the laid-off workers received.
 Employees had been involved in the discussions about the business, Mr. Foley said, so the layoffs were not a surprise.
 In fact, he said, because Reflexite is employee-owned, everyone understood the financial issues, and ''there was relief that it was over.'' 
 ''The general reaction was, 'Thanks for trying all you could,''' he added.
 The division in question has since rebounded, and Reflexite was even able to offer jobs to many former employees, Mr. Foley said. All but one of them came back. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



600 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Finding The Mess Behind The Mess

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
A BURSTING real estate bubble set off the Japanese recession of the 1990s, which deepened as ailing banks languished. It took Japan's economy more than a decade to resume steady, noticeable growth. 
 Will this happen to the United States? Probably not, but we may face a protracted process of recovery, stretching longer than the two or so years usually required to climb out of recession. 
 Behind every financial crisis there is usually a crisis in the real economy, based in some underlying structural deficiency. Even if the financial crisis is bottoming out, sooner or later the real crisis must be faced. 
 The fundamental problem in the American economy is that, for years, people treated rising asset prices as a substitute for personal savings. The thinking went something like this: As long as your home's value rose every year, you didn't have to set aside so much from your paycheck. If your stocks went up, too, so much the better; don't forget that the Dow Jones industrial average stood in the 800 range in 1982 and seemed to rise almost nonstop for many years. 
 Of course, asset prices haven't been rising much lately, so many people will need more savings for their retirement or for possible emergencies.
 The need to save more sharpens a number of interrelated secondary problems. First, America is aging. More people than ever are entering the years when they stop saving and start spending their nest eggs. That means the transition to higher-than-expected savings may be drawn out and painful. 
 The second problem is that the American economy is enduring a credit crisis, with many banks trying to raise more capital and make fewer loans. Savings are good for the economy when they lead to investment, but there is no guarantee that financial institutions will be allocating capital efficiently.
 The third problem is that lower consumer spending will require the American economy to make some shifts. That may mean fewer Starbucks and fewer new homes but more tractor production for export to foreign markets. In the long run, shifting some consumption to investment is probably beneficial to the economy; in the short run it means job losses and costly readjustments. 
 In addition, there are still excess homes on the market, and housing prices need to fall further. Of course, such price declines can make banks less solvent and thus worsen the credit crisis. And politicians would like to moderate this fall in prices, again prolonging the adjustment process.
 On top of all that is the largely separate matter of energy prices. High prices will encourage conservation and cleaner energy alternatives, but voters want low gasoline prices and winter heating bills. Politicians see lower energy prices as a way to help the economy in the short run -- and as a way to win votes. 
 The evolution of energy prices may not follow any kind of desirable logic. There's also the danger that the Fed will view high energy prices as a sign of permanent inflation and tighten money supply growth prematurely.
 What should policy makers do? One path that is likely to prove counterproductive is further fiscal stimulus in the form of tax rebates. Such stimulus can raise consumer spending and bolster the economy in the short run, but it works -- if it works at all -- only by pushing consumers to spend rather than to save. It merely postpones needed adjustments by providing a grab bag of goodies at exactly the wrong time.
 Excessive bank regulation is another danger. To be sure, the regulatory structure for financial institutions failed in the current crisis, and change is in order. But we shouldn't reform in a way that will discourage bank lending and weaken the tie between savings and investment. Banks are already allergic to very risky mortgages -- probably excessively so -- and we shouldn't overreact by punishing them for past mistakes.
 In other words, regulatory reform needs to be forward-looking rather than focused on penance. Given that politics often revolves around assigning blame, it's not obvious that we will succeed in this task.
 Emerging from the current slowdown isn't just a matter of political will or smart central banking. If the recipe for success requires smooth adjustment into new growth sectors, more savings from disposable income, cleaning up the housing mess, well-functioning energy markets, and more effective financial intermediation -- all in the right combinations and in the right sequences -- neither the government nor the Federal Reserve can control this process. The Fed can add regulatory and monetary clarity, but there isn't any magic bullet. Beware of anyone who tells you there is.
 The Japanese failed to break out of their recession quickly because they didn't promptly close down or clean up their problem banks. So far, the Fed and other regulators show no signs of making this mistake; they have been vigilant in resolving crises as they occur. But that's not enough to guarantee a successful transition. The American economy will be tested for its deftness -- and the test will be difficult precisely because there isn't a single enemy on which to focus.
 HAVE you ever tried to undo a bunch of tangled wires or cords? If you don't pull on the right wires in the right order, the mess becomes worse. If you pull too hard, the whole thing can break. But if your first pulls are good ones, the untangling becomes easier with each move. 
 That's like our economy's situation today. If we expect too much too quickly, we'll make matters worse. But there is a way out of the mess, and it lies in our hands. 
 Be careful, and start pulling. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CHEMICALS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (61%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008

 
