

201 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Slot Machines May Ring Where Steel Was Once Forged

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa., Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Since its coke ovens shut down for the last time in 1998, the mile-long Bethlehem Steel Corporation plant has been a rusty reminder of this small Lehigh Valley city's proud industrial past. Trees have sprouted between the red bricks, and birds have nested in wire baskets in which steel workers once stored their belongings.
 But in two years or so, the pinging of thousands of slot machines is likely to fill the eerie silence at the steelworks, which once employed 30,000 people and supplied the steel for landmarks like Rockefeller Center and notable projects like the George Washington Bridge.
 Last month, Sands BethWorks Gaming, a partnership of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation, a hotel and casino company, and a group led by Barry M. Gosin, a New York developer, was awarded one of five hotly contested licenses in Pennsylvania to operate freestanding slots parlors. 
 Sands BethWorks plans to spend more than $600 million developing a 300-room hotel, a 200,000-square-foot outlet mall and a casino with 3,000 slot machines on a vacant ore field at the former plant. The towering blast furnaces will be illuminated, and a building known as the High House, where battleship guns were manufactured, will be stabilized, the developers said. 
 The city is expected to approve the final plans within the next few weeks, which would permit the developers to break ground this summer.
 Though the first phase of the project involves new construction rather than rehabilitation of the steel plant, the additions have been designed to blend in. 
 ''We wanted to make it look like an industrial site, to respect what was there and not make it look Disneyesque,'' said Mr. Gosin, who helped transform the industrial Dumbo area of Brooklyn into a popular neighborhood.
 In August 2004, Mr. Gosin, the chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank, an international brokerage and property management company, and his partners bought 124 acres of the 1,800-acre steelworks site for what he now acknowledges was a bargain price of $4 million. 
 The seller was the New York investor Wilbur L. Ross, who acquired the bankrupt steel company in 2003. The steel company, hoping to redevelop some of its unused buildings as a retail and entertainment complex, had already cleaned up the site. The city had invested $10 million on roads, sidewalks and utilities.
 Mr. Gosin, who travels to Bethlehem from New York in a chauffeur-driven Bentley, said he had bought the property without realizing it could be used for a casino. Initially, he planned to focus on converting a 52,000-square-foot building that once housed the steel company's headquarters into condominiums. 
 Later, he struck a deal with Las Vegas Sands, whose executives he had come to know while negotiating the lease for a Barneys store to open this year at the Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino in Las Vegas. 
 Sands, which was founded by Sheldon G. Adelson, the creator of Comdex, Las Vegas's first consumer electronics trade show, is building the Palazzo next to its Venetian Resort Hotel Casino. The company also owns the Sands Casino in Macao and is about to open a Venetian there. In May, it received a license to build Singapore's first gambling resort.
 If the Bethlehem project proves successful, Mr. Gosin and William P. Weidner, the president of Las Vegas Sands, said they hoped to expand the hotel, build a convention center and add retail space in a long structure known as No. 2 Machine Shop. Mr. Weidner said he hoped the Bethlehem project would provide a model for the development of other former industrial sites.
 Before they could win over the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the developers had to persuade residents that the casino would not alter the charm of their picturesque city of 72,000 along the Lehigh River. Founded by members of the Moravian Church from Eastern Europe in the 18th century, Bethlehem still has many well-tended German-style buildings from that period. 
 Unlike many towns that have turned to gambling out of desperation, it has a diverse economic base, with several hospitals and academic institutions. Many residents commute to New York City, about 75 miles away, city officials say. The city, which markets itself as Christmas City, is a popular holiday destination.
 The developers say the casino is likely to be a catalyst for developing the former plant as a historic and cultural site that would include a long-delayed National Museum of Industrial History, two performance halls and a new home for the local public broadcasting station.
 But the museum's prospects are far from certain. The museum, which is affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution, is intended to focus attention on the role of industry in shaping the country's rapid growth, but it has raised only $14 million of the $26 million it needs for its first phase, said Stephen G. Donches, its chief executive. 
 At the outset, it would be located in a 1913 building the museum acquired years ago from the steel company. Sands BethWorks has given the museum part of No. 2 Machine Shop and the building that served as a locker room for steelworkers -- both would be redeveloped later -- but has limited its financial support to a $25,000 donation.
 Mr. Weidner, however, said the discussions with museum officials were just beginning. ''We will contribute more money,'' he said. The developers have also donated a building and 3.5 acres for the cultural uses and plan to set aside an 1863 stone building as a visitors center. 
 Early on, the casino received enthusiastic support from Bethlehem's mayor, John B. Callahan. Because of the closing of the steel plant, the city's assessed real estate value is 2 percent lower today than in 1994, the mayor said. 
 The casino operators will be required to pay the city a ''host fee'' of $10 million a year, or 2 percent of their revenue, whichever is higher. (Another 2 percent will go to Northampton County and neighboring Lehigh County.) 
 The gambling revenue will go a long way in a city with an annual budget of $58.2 million, even though the visitors from Northern New Jersey and New York will also put a burden on municipal services, Mr. Callahan said. ''The host fee will more than compensate for any impacts,'' he said. ''For me, it's a very practical decision.''
 Opponents have fought the casino on the ground that it would be too close to several churches, only a few blocks from Lehigh University and out of place in their history-rich city.
 Lucy H. Lennon, the owner of the Dancing Fish, a sushi restaurant in a rapidly gentrifying neighborhood near the former steel plant, said she was concerned about the casino's impact on the city's small-town character.
 ''I don't think the casino is going to ruin Bethlehem,'' she said. ''But I think it's going to change.''
 Louis P. Pektor, an unsuccessful local bidder for the Bethlehem Steel site, said he worried that Sands BethWorks would have no incentive to reinvest its revenue in the community. ''Nothing requires them to do it,'' said Mr. Pektor, the owner of Ashley Development, one of the largest developers in the Lehigh Valley.
 But Neville Gardner, the owner of Donegal Square, a shop on Main Street that carries Irish and Scottish sweaters and mufflers, said the casino and surrounding development would help retailers by bringing newcomers to Bethlehem.
 ''Getting them here the first time is the hardest part,'' he said. ''Once they're here, we find they'll usually come back.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barry M. Gosin, a New York developer, and his partner say their project will maintain the historical character of the former industrial site. Below, a rendering of the proposed complex. (Photo Courtesy of Las Vegas Sands)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); GAMING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CASINOS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (72%); RESORTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (60%); APPROVALS (51%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (50%) Gambling; Hotels and Motels; Retail Stores and Trade; Casinos; Slot Machines; Steel and Iron; Gambling; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (91%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (85%); BGC PARTNERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Sands BethWorks Gaming; Las Vegas Sands Corp; Bethlehem Steel Corp

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (85%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Barry M Gosin; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Bethlehem (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



202 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Thailand May Add Measures To Restrict Foreign Investment

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLERand WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
Thailand warned yesterday that it might add further restrictions to foreign investors, ignoring warnings that the move was ill timed and damaging for a fragile economy already struggling to overcome the stigma of a military coup and the instability caused by recent bombings in Bangkok. 
 News of stricter foreigner ownership laws, which were approved by the cabinet but still need the agreement of two government bodies, sent the Thai stock index down 2.7 percent. That is the latest setback for the market, which plunged last month after a botched experiment with rules limiting the flow of foreign money into the country. 
 ''Thailand has shot itself in the foot,'' said Ping Chew, a regional analyst at Standard & Poor's in Singapore. ''I know there are domestic pressures, but they have to be sensible and rational about it.'' 
 The decision by the military-appointed cabinet, if upheld, would require some foreign investors to sell holdings that exceed 50 percent in companies based in Thailand and give up voting rights in excess of 50 percent, according to the finance minister, Pridiyathorn Devakula. 
 American companies would be largely exempt from this rule because of a treaty with Thailand that dates to the Vietnam War, said Kitipong Urapeepatanapong, a partner at Baker & McKenzie in Bangkok. ''American investors do not have much to worry about,'' he said. 
 European and Japanese companies, however, have complained loudly in recent days that any law should not be retroactive. It remained unclear yesterday exactly which categories of foreign companies would be forced to reduce their stakes or find Thai partners. Mr. Pridiyathorn said the limits would apply to companies operating in telecommunications and other sectors vital to national security. 
 The Foreign Business Act bans foreigners from owning majority shares in businesses as diverse as the media, rice farming, the production of images of Buddha, legal services and many types of construction. Foreign businesses have often skirted these laws by appointing Thais to serve as proxies, a gray area that the proposed laws seek to clarify. 
 Although legal analysts say changes have long been needed, the announcement caused widespread confusion. Affected companies will have two years to comply with the new rules. But retailers, insurers, banks and brokers would be exempt, the commerce minister, Krirkkrai Jirapaet, told Reuters. 
 It also comes at a time when Thailand's image around the region is suffering. Last month, the government announced capital controls to stem the rise in the baht but partly rescinded them the next day after the market plunged 15 percent. 
 Confidence in Thailand was further shaken when eight bombs exploded around the Thai capital on New Year's Eve, killing 3 people and wounding more than 40. With foreigners already wary of investing in Thailand, the last thing the country needed, analysts say, was a new law perceived as antiforeign. 
 ''I don't quite understand what purpose this is designed to serve,'' said Korn Chatikavanij, a former president of the Thai unit of JPMorgan Chase. ''Effectively, it's a tightening of foreign ownership which begs the question of why in this day and age this is good for Thailand.'' 
 Thailand, heavily dependent on both foreign investment and trade, has experienced declines in investment recently. Approved foreign investment fell 43 percent during the first 11 months of 2006, to 305.8 billion baht ($8.6 billion), compared with the period in 2005, according to the Board of Investment. 
 Political instability leading up to the coup in September that ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra has frightened some foreign investors away, and the new foreign investment rules could frighten away more, Mr. Korn, the former banker, said. 
 ''The law that exists already provides protection,'' he said. ''It doesn't seem reasonable to make it more onerous.'' 
 The immediate goal of the new rules is largely political: to close the loopholes that the Thai government says enabled the investment arm of the Singapore government, Temasek, to buy control of Shin, the Thai telecommunications company, from the family of Mr. Thaksin for $1.9 billion in a deal done last year. 
 That deal galvanized public protests against Mr. Thaksin, culminating in the September coup. To help them justify ousting the prime minister, the military leaders who staged the coup are intent on showing that the Shin sale was illegitimate. 
 Mr. Thaksin's ouster set in motion a series of challenges to the deal, including a pending lawsuit against regulators who approved the transaction and an investigation into allegations of tax evasion that has culminated in the government's firing of the head of the revenue department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); COUPS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); TRENDS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); APPROVALS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); RICE FARMING (50%) Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Law and Legislation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Treaties; United States International Relations

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Thomas Fuller; Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%) Thailand; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



203 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Green In Building Renovation

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
It is a rare announcement for a new commercial office building these days that does not trumpet the new structure's ''green'' features. In fact, nearly 5,000 buildings across the country, 90 percent of them new construction, are awaiting evaluation by the United States Green Building Council. 
 The council is the Washington-based nonprofit organization that, in 1998, created the notion that buildings could be certified as environmentally friendly. 
The trend, however, has not caught on to the same degree in the renovation of existing buildings. But one developer based in New York is banking on the potential growth of this so-far-overlooked market. 
 Jonathan F. P. Rose, a third-generation developer who founded the Jonathan Rose Companies in 1989 to marry for-profit development with a socially conscious mission, began the Rose Smart Growth Investment Fund a year ago. The $100 million limited partnership is one of the few environmentally oriented investment funds -- perhaps the only one -- to focus exclusively on the acquisition of existing properties in locations served by mass transit. The expectation is that the fund will make environmentally conscious improvements to the properties and hold them as long-term investments.
 ''Over the life of a building, more energy is consumed traveling to and from a building than is used by the building itself,'' Mr. Rose said. ''So location in urban areas with good mass transit is critical to reducing environmental impact. And when you pick transit-based urban sites, supply is already constrained. So the strategy is to hit a sweet spot of holistic development and economic return.''
 The fund's first redevelopment project is under way in Seattle at the Joseph Vance and Sterling Buildings, two adjacent structures erected in 1929 and 1910, respectively. Situated at Third Avenue and Union Street, the office buildings were purchased for $23.5 million and are undergoing $3.5 million worth of ''practical green'' renovations.
 By tuning up heating and cooling systems, replacing old windows and tearing out carpeting (exposing the original terrazzo floors), the buildings will be transformed from drab, inefficient office space that was about 20 percent vacant into a model of modern green redevelopment, according to Mr. Rose.
 This will not only reduce operating costs over time, but also make the spaces more valuable by $4 to $6 a square foot or more (rents ranged from $16 to $20 a square foot before the renovation). In addition to enjoying cost savings from energy efficiency, tenants are increasingly willing to pay for the cachet of green design, brokers say. 
 As tenants move out, all 103,000 square feet will be renovated to the Green Building Council's standards for existing buildings. The council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards certify a building's energy efficiency and low-impact, nontoxic construction.
 In part, the standards can be met by adding simple design features, like ''light shelves.'' Positioned over desks, the shelves simultaneously prevent glare on computer screens while redirecting light and heat to the interior space.
 Another simple improvement, particularly in a temperate climate like Seattle's, is to install double-hung windows that can be opened on the top and bottom.
 More important is that even though the buildings are not in the heart of the retail or office districts, they are on a main bus line. 
 Properties owned and operated by the Rose Fund will also incorporate environmentally aware principles into tenant leases, distributing a tenant improvement manual that demonstrates the most efficient way to operate the space. ''You can put in all the systems in place, but if they aren't used properly, you don't get the savings,'' Mr. Rose said.
 A second project will be undertaken in Baltimore by the Rose Smart Growth Fund in partnership with Struever Brothers, Eccles & Rouse. Green improvements will be made at that project, the Clipper Mill, an old steel mill that has been transformed into 147,000 square feet of mixed-use office, retail and residential space.
 Other target markets for acquisitions include the Boston-to-Washington corridor, the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. 
 But it is Seattle that exemplifies the growth potential for LEED Existing Building certification, which was begun by the Green Building Council in July 2005. Other LEED standards cover areas like operation of buildings, and construction of new buildings, commercial buildings, homes, schools and neighborhoods.
 While Seattle has the most new-construction buildings in the country that are LEED-certified (23, according to the council), classifying existing buildings as green is still a new concept, according to Diane Sugimura, Seattle's director of planning and development.
 Before the Sterling and Vance renovations, the city had only one green residential redevelopment project and a single floor in a commercial building. ''We're a built-up city,'' Ms. Sugimura said. ''So the potential for this is enormous.''
 Which raises the question, Why have existing buildings been overlooked? According to the Green Building Council, it is largely because new construction and high-tech systems have attracted all the attention, providing architects and engineers opportunities to create new technologies and even whole industries. By comparison, cleaning boilers and installing operable windows does not seem terribly exciting.
 But with energy costs rising, and the possibility of awarding an existing building a LEED certification, that is starting to change. 
 One company that sees potential is Transwestern Commercial Services, a manager of commercial properties. Transwestern, which is based in Houston and oversees 765 properties across the country, recently began a pilot program to determine what it would cost to carry out energy-efficient strategies and lower the environmental impact in 50 of the buildings it manages.
 ''Institutional investors are very concerned about this,'' said Mychele Lord, executive managing director of Transwestern. Once the pilot program is complete, Ms. Lord said, the company will seek to standardize energy-efficient and sustainable practices across its entire portfolio.
 ''From an environmental standpoint, if we really want to address climate change and water conservation, the bigger opportunity is in existing buildings,'' said Doug Gatlin, director of the Green Building Council's certification program.
 ''But the greater value to the commercial owners and managers is, in a few years, if you don't have a green building, you won't be able to charge the highest rent.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: As part of the environmentally aware renovation of an office building in Seattle, carpeting was removed to reveal the original terrazzo floor.
 Ceiling fans, windows that open and new temperature controls are features of the ''green'' renovation. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); TRENDS (76%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (68%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Environment; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Transit Systems; Subways

ORGANIZATION: Rose Smart Growth Investment Fund; Rose, Jonathan, Companies Llp

PERSON: Jonathan F P Rose; Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



204 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: The Future Of Economics Isn't So Dismal

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
On a summer day a few years ago, a recent college graduate named Emily Oster was talking to her boyfriend about the research that was, and wasn't, being done on the spread of AIDS. She was an aspiring economist at the time, getting ready to go to graduate school, and she was struck by the fact that her field had little to say about why some countries had such high H.I.V. rates. 
 To most people, that may not sound like a question an economist needs to be asking. It's more the domain of epidemiologists or public health workers, and they were already doing good work on it.
 But economists have been acting a lot like intellectual imperialists in the last decade or so. They have been using their tools -- mainly the analysis of enormous piles of data to tease out cause and effect -- to examine everything from politics to French wine vintages. 
 As the daughter of two economists, Ms. Oster probably understood this better than most 22-year-olds. Her father, Ray Fair, invented a semi-famous economic formula that has an impressive track record of predicting presidential elections. Her mother, Sharon Oster, studies business strategy. 
 So during her time as a Ph.D. student at Harvard, the younger Ms. Oster took on AIDS in Africa. Her most provocative finding was that Africans didn't really behave so differently from people in countries with much lower H.I.V. rates. They did not have many more sexual partners than Americans on average. And, like Americans, Africans had cut back on unsafe sex in response to AIDS -- or at least relatively well-off, healthy Africans had. 
 Poorer Africans, who of course make up the continent's overwhelming majority, had made fewer changes. They had less of an incentive to practice safe sex, Ms. Oster concluded, because many of them could not expect to reach old age, whether or not they contracted H.I.V. Any attack on AIDS should therefore include an attack on poverty. 
 ''This is not the kind of thing epidemiologists would do. It's not the way they would have framed it,'' Ms. Oster, now 26, said. ''It's an idea only an economist would love.''
 Whatever you think of her conclusions, there's no denying that her subject is more interesting -- and, yes, more important -- than the esoteric fiscal and monetary models that once dominated economics. Ms. Oster is studying death, not taxes.
 Last weekend, hundreds of economists gathered in Chicago for their annual conference, where they interviewed one another for job openings, presented new research papers and had the occasional glass of wine. This was my sixth such conference, and I have often been stunned by how much of the research here, like Ms. Oster's work, would interest non-economists. 
 As ''The Soulful Science,'' a new book by Diane Coyle, puts it, there has been a ''remarkable creative renaissance in how economics is addressing the most fundamental questions -- and how it is starting to help solve problems.'' The reams of data that computers can now crunch have ushered the field into a new golden age, Ms. Coyle writes, yet most of its accomplishments are not widely known.
 So before this year's conference, I did an informal poll of about 20 senior economists around the country and asked a single question: who are the young (untenured) economists doing work that is both highly respected among experts and relevant to the rest of us? Who, in other words, is the future of economics?
 Thirteen names came up more than once, and I'm sure a scientific survey would have produced a longer list. As it is, though, the list is incredibly diverse. It includes Justin Wolfers, who once worked for an Australian bookie and is now an expert on online prediction markets , and Raj Chetty, who grew up in both India and Milwaukee and studies antipoverty policy.
 Ms. Oster is on the list, and so is the boyfriend with whom she first discussed her AIDS ideas: Jesse Shapiro, now her husband. He has done innovative work on, among other things, the benefits of television for some toddlers. The two of them are the inaugural fellows at a University of Chicago research center run by Gary Becker (a Nobel laureate), Steven Levitt (co-author of ''Freaknomoics'') and Kevin Murphy (winner of a MacArthur genius award). 
 In fact, the least diverse aspect of the list of 13 -- the full roster appears above -- may be the way that its members have chosen their mates. Six of them are married to another person in the group. 
 In the end, this new era of economics matters because it has a chance to influence the world that is its subject matter. Ms. Oster, for example, has presented her work to the President's Commission on AIDS and others, and her findings seem to be one small part of the recent push for better H.I.V. prevention measures.
 In Massachusetts, a 41-year-old economist named Jonathan Gruber helped design the new state program to provide health insurance for every resident, which is a model for the California plan announced on Monday. The new federal pension law, meanwhile, encourages employers to sign up workers automatically for 401(k) plans largely because academic research has shown just how costly procrastination is.
 For all this success, though, there are still two big obstacles holding back the economics revolution. The first is that the field remains too narrow in its approach. As David Colander, an economist at Middlebury College, notes, researchers are rewarded -- with job offers, endowed chairs and prizes -- for finding statistically significant patterns that can be published in prestigious journals. They're generally not rewarded for collaborating with experts in other fields to put those patterns into better context.
 As a result, there is too much ''cleverness for cleverness's sake,'' Mr. Colander says, and not enough ''judgment and wisdom.''
 The second obstacle is that when economists do uncover a nugget of true wisdom, they're often hesitant to follow it to its natural conclusion and to become principled advocates for better policy. Theirs is not to judge, they insist, only to report what they find. Otherwise, they may risk their reputation for impartial research. 
 Which is a fair point. But it's a risk worth taking, because the alternative is frankly much worse.
 When David Hume, the philosopher and friend of Adam Smith, called for the establishment of a ''science of human nature'' in the 18th century, he helped invent modern economics. The new generation of researchers will probably come closer to realizing his vision, and to making economics a true science, than any of their predecessors. 
 But think about what scientists do when they uncover a problem: they try to solve it. To do otherwise is to let an impressive piece of research turn into a scientifically rigorous piece of trivia.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Oster did AIDS research (Photo by Dan Dry/University of Chicago)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Economists to Watch''When a number of senior economists were asked which young, untenured economists were doing impressive work on real-world problems, these were the 13 young researchers whose names came up most often.Raj Chetty, BerkeleyRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Unemployment benefits and tax creditsStefano DellaVigna, BerkeleyRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: The decline in crime during the weekend a violent movie is releasedAmy Finkelstein, M.I.T.RESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Medicare's role in increasing health spendingRoland Fryer, HarvardRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: The causes of racial inequalityXavier Gabaix, M.I.T.RESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: A rationale for chief executive payMatthew Gentzkow, ChicagoRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: How newspapers cater to readers' political viewsUlrike MalmendierBerkeleyRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Irrational behavior, among everyone from chief executives to eBay customersDean Karlan, YaleRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Microfinance in poor countriesBenjamin Olken, HarvardRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Corruption in IndonesiaEmily Oster, ChicagoRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Health in developing countriesJesse Rothstein, PrincetonRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: What school choice doesn't accomplishJesse Shapiro, ChicagoRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: How television can benefit disadvantaged toddlersJustin Wolfers, PennRESEARCH AREAS INCLUDE: Online bettors' success in predicting electionsLines indicate married couples(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); POLITICS (73%); WINE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (51%) Economics; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Research; Third World and Developing Countries; Economics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

PERSON: Emily Oster; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



205 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Projects Surplus 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York City's short-term fiscal outlook looks very bright because the local economy remains strong and tax revenues have been coming in at higher rates than expected, according to a report released yesterday by the city's Independent Budget Office. The office projected a surplus of $2.1 billion for the 2007 fiscal year, which ends on June 30, and, assuming that that money is used to pay future expenses in advance, a surplus of $688 million for the 2008 fiscal year. The office said it expected deficits of $2.9 billion in fiscal 2009 and $2.7 billion in fiscal 2010, the last year of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's term -- but added that those projected shortfalls were smaller than what the mayor's Office of Management and Budget had projected. SEWELL CHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); MAYORS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%) 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%) Independent Budget Office (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



206 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: New York Tries to Think Outside the Sandbox

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
New York City, with its rich history of public playgrounds, is on the verge of a bold experiment in the way children play, one that could accelerate the trend away from monkey bars, swings and seesaws used by generations of city children.
 In an unusual public-private partnership, the city is developing a playground near the South Street Seaport that will have trained ''play workers'' on hand to help children interact with features of the new playground: water, ramps, sand and specially designed objects meant to spur the imagination.
The concept is not just another accouterment for Manhattan's pampered toddler set. Rather, city officials say, it reflects the latest thinking about child-rearing. They hope the new playground concept will be replicated across the five boroughs and that it will serve as an inspiration for other cities. 
 ''This is a very exciting idea in its physical presentation and its potential to change the way we think of playgrounds,'' said the city's parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe, adding that it could ''once again put New York City on the cutting edge of playground design and development.'' 
 Based on child-development theories that children need to engage in social and fantasy play rather than just build physical skills, the project was conceived and is being designed at no charge by David Rockwell, famous for creating adult play spaces like the restaurants Nobu and Cafe Gray and the Mohegan Sun casino and resort.
 Although the space is to be open to the public, the play workers, a concept already popular in Europe, are being financed by Mr. Rockwell, who is raising $2 million privately to cover the costs. 
 The American playground of swing sets and steel monkey bars has already been evolving with more imaginative features in recent years. But behaviorists and others say planners could go even further to reflect more refined ideas about nurturing children, especially those younger than 12.
 ''Very little time is spent by kids in playgrounds if they have a choice,'' said Roger Hart, who has been consulting with the Rockwell Group and the city in developing the playground. He is also a director of the Children's Environments Research Group at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. ''They limit the repertoire of play to children's physical activity,'' instead of encouraging the kind of social, sensory, interactive and individual fantasy play that children need, Mr. Hart said.
 Once upon a time, parents took their children to city playgrounds to push them endlessly in swings or watch them hang from monkey bars (since removed; too dangerous) or let them struggle with the rudiments of sharing shovels in a sandbox. And both parent and child felt they were doing pretty well.
 The new playground, however, aims to do better: Developers of the Lower Manhattan project envision groups of children collaborating, for instance, loading containers with sand, hoisting them up with pulleys and then lowering them down to wagons waiting to be wheeled off to another part of the park.
 What may sound like a training ground for tiny construction workers actually holds huge developmental benefits, backers say. ''You have a level of interaction that you would never have with fixed parts,'' Mr. Hart said.
 The project would transform a parking lot at Burling Slip in the South Street Seaport Historic District, an area that has few playgrounds and is increasingly attractive to residents with children. The plan has already won the support of city and state elected officials and community leaders. 
 Although it still needs approval from the Landmarks Preservation Commission, that appears likely to be granted, paving the way for completion sometime next year. At a hearing yesterday, several commissioners spoke in its favor, and the chairman, Robert B. Tierney, said he thought there was a ''broad consensus for approval.''
 The idea has the support of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Parks officials are devising plans to supply those who already work in other playgrounds with the loose objects, which range from foam blocks and cardboard tubes to spindles and burlap bags, and train them to encourage children to play with them. And in a classic Bloombergian touch, the city hopes that if the idea catches on elsewhere, it could market the playground products.
 Mr. Rockwell, the designer, acknowledged that there were plenty of great play spaces in the city, and he and his team designed their playground as a complement to those that already exist. Still, he said, watching his children, 4 and 7, play inspired him to create something based more on the imagination.
 ''Play is not optional for kids; play is how children learn to build community, how they learn to work with other people, it's how they learn to kind of engage their sense of creativity,'' Mr. Rockwell said. ''We thought it was a really open field to explore.''
 Mr. Rockwell has already developed a relationship with the city, helping to design a viewing platform over ground zero, a project for which he also helped raise private financing. After another partnership to develop theatrical spaces downtown fell through, Mr. Rockwell, who lives in Lower Manhattan, realized there was an immediate need for a playground.
 Commissioner Benepe, it turned out, was an advocate for rethinking the city's playgrounds, and there was money available from both the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and the Economic Development Corporation as part of larger efforts to redevelop the area.
 Whether the playground experiment proves successful, and can be replicated, is an open question, educators and parents say.
 Cathleen Wiggins, director of the Leadership in the Arts program at the Bank Street College of Education and the mother of a 6-year-old, was receptive to the open-ended play materials but worried that the city could wind up with something that could not be maintained because of budget constraints. And she said that traditional playgrounds had their selling points, adding that children ''are creative and imaginative beings and given just about any material they are going to bring to it their notions of the world and their growing understanding of it.''
 The modern American playground has its roots in the late 19th century, when settlement houses in New York worked to create spaces for children to play, Mr. Benepe said. 
 According to Susan G. Solomon, who wrote the book ''American Playgrounds,'' which traces their evolution, playground design in the 1950s and '60s was borrowed from post-war Europe with the concept of the adventure playground. That idea was based on the fact that children most enjoyed building their own playthings and manipulating their own environment.
 But, Ms. Solomon, who is also consulting on the new playground, said that in the '70s, concerns over injury and liability took over, and high-ticket architects largely abandoned playground design.
 Now, Ms. Solomon said, the United States has fallen far behind Europe and Japan. In Great Britain, for instance, play is a government priority, with organizations dedicated to research, training and oversight of play workers and the development of play programs.
 What the Rockwell Group has proposed for Lower Manhattan is a figure-eight-shape landscape, with sloping wooden ramps for running that connect a zone of sand to a zone of water. A structure would house the loose parts, including foam blocks, small boats and collections of tubing, elbows and gaskets for construction projects, all to be maintained and overseen by the play workers.
 The design also calls for a system of pulleys and ropes for children to lift and transport objects, as well as a climbingnet and shading sails that relate to the area's maritime history and setting.
 ''We're creating as many opportunities as we can for collaborative play -- thinking of imagination as important a muscle as running,'' Mr. Rockwell said, as well as places that children can be in and manipulate as they wish, with the loose objects encouraging them ''to understand that they can control their own environment.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A parking lot at John Street near South Street Seaport would be turned into a playground where children could play with foam blocks, cardboard tubes and burlap bags. It would also have pulleys and climbing nets. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 A designer's rendering of the proposed Lower Manhattan playground. (Photo by Kinnaresh Mistry and the Rockwell Group)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARENTING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%) Playgrounds; Children and Youth; Philanthropy; Playgrounds

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

PERSON: Diane Cardwell; David Rockwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (54%) New York City; South Street Seaport (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



207 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Propose Restoring Iraqi Factories to Create Jobs 

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ; Khalid al-Ansary and Ahmad Fadam contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
A new effort to revitalize Iraqi factories that make vegetable oil, fertilizer, road signs and sulfuric acid -- among the world's most outdated and decrepit -- is expected to be at the center of the plan for the nation that President Bush will present Wednesday. 
 But even before the measures are announced, Iraqi political and business leaders have been expressing skepticism that any effort to transform a system of state-owned enterprises that has fallen so far into dysfunction could become an engine for job creation in Iraq. 
 The administration describes the steps as a way to employ more Iraqis and to keep them away from more destructive pursuits such as joining the insurgency or fighting in a militia.
 Among the economic measures under consideration is new support for a program that allows local American military commanders to finance small reconstruction projects. 
 But recent statements by administration officials suggest that the plan is also likely to include an effort to revive parts of what was a vast Iraqi military and industrial base before it was destroyed by war, sanctions and looting.
 That plan would involve pumping expertise and money for reconstruction into enterprises still owned by the Iraqi government, or privatizing some or all of the companies to force them to become more competitive. 
 Either way, Iraqi political and business leaders were dubious about the prospects for success. ''I doubt it very much in view of the current challenges and dangers facing the country,'' said Mehdi Hafedh, a member of Parliament and a former planning minister. 
 The state-owned enterprises are already a huge drain on Iraq's budget, Mr. Hafedh said, and most of them produce little or nothing. Many are filled with no-show jobs. 
 ''The Americans should have made some consultations because this is ridiculous, frankly,'' Mr. Hafedh said. ''What Iraq needs to do is reduce the number of employees in the state sector.''
 The focus on jobs and reconstruction is in many ways a return to the earliest days of the occupation, when the top American administrator here, L. Paul Bremer III, pressed the idea that economic initiatives were as important as military action in stabilizing the country and convincing ordinary Iraqis that the invasion would have tangible benefits for them.
 That philosophy led to a reconstruction program financed by $30 billion in American taxpayer money that had a marginal impact on the quality of life here, attracted ceaseless attacks on rebuilding projects and produced little but derision among Iraqis.
 In addition, American officials, who declined to comment before the president's speech, have never produced evidence that those enormous expenditures have lessened the attractions of the insurgency. 
 Nor have those officials solved what appears to be a logical flaw in the plan: how does the United States get credit for reconstruction projects when it must keep its participation secret to prevent attacks on those projects?
 The employment picture in Iraq is without a doubt grim, said Batea al-Kubaisi, a government economics expert. Depending on how it is measured on the chaotic streets of Iraq, the unemployment rate ranges from 30 percent to 60 percent, Mr. Kubaisi said.
 Given those numbers, making use of the state-owned companies has distinct attractions. Overall, the 192 companies employ more than 500,000 Iraqis, which amounts to roughly half of all Iraqi government employees, Mr. Hafedh said.
 But while the companies may appear alluring in reducing unemployment and sparking the economy, businessmen here said they are far from a solution. 
 Many of those employees actually do nothing but collect monthly paychecks and go home, says Mahmoud Othman, an Iraqi businessman who favors increasing support for the companies and privatizing some.
 ''They are still on the payroll of the government although they have nothing to do,'' Mr. Othman, who is not to be confused with the Iraqi politician of the same name. ''They were not dismissed for social reasons.''
 The very names of the companies have the musty air of government institutions in a closed nation: the General Company for Vegetable Oils, the State Company for Battery Manufacturing, al-Mishraq Sulfur Industry Company.
 And any remaining illusions about the status of those companies would be shattered by evaluations by Mr. Bremer's administration here when privatization was in the air in 2003. 
 A company that produced metal castings, traffic signs and military medals was so damaged in the invasion, one evaluation said, that the ''sign factory is only one that doesn't need to be completely rebuilt from the ground up.''
 The sulfur company had ''heavy damage to offices, plant and equipment,'' the evaluation said. ''Entire facility is almost completely destroyed.'' 
 Other companies, like a heavy engineering business called Nasco, have been damaged less severely but have different problems: Nasco is in Doura, now one of the deadliest districts in Baghdad.
 The Pentagon official at the center of the program to revitalize the state-owned enterprises is Paul A. Brinkley, the deputy undersecretary for business transformation, who has surveyed some of the companies in Iraq.
 ''What we are doing is assessing these factories,'' Mr. Brinkley told American Forces Press Service last week. ''We are bringing in expertise. We are bringing international industry to bear to create demand for these factories.''
 Mr. Brinkley told the service he hoped that within a year, around a quarter of the $4 billion that the United States spends to support its troops in Iraq -- food, fuel and outfitting of bases that is mostly bought outside the country -- could be spent instead on the Iraqi companies. Some Iraqi officials, including Layla Kadhum, the minister of labor and social affairs, appeared to support the initiative.
 ''If these ideas are applied, they will have a great role in diminishing the violence that the country is witnessing, because a great part of the violence is caused by the unemployment,'' Ms. Kadhum said.
 Others sounded notes of alarm, particularly if Mr. Bush planned the sort of privatization that was tried and abandoned as unworkable early in Mr. Bremer's tenure.
 ''I hope the president doesn't make that the linchpin of his short-term strategy,'' said Basil Rahim, an Iraqi financial expert, ''because that's just going to backfire on him.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Several Iraqi leaders were skeptical of the job plan. Mehdi Hafedh, a former planning minister, called the idea ''ridiculous.'' (Photo by Nader Daoud/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); TERRORISM (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Factories and Industrial Plants

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) James Glanz; Khalid Al-Ansary; Ahmad Fadam

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



208 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cut Measure Could Be a Stumbling Block for Increase in Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
As part of their 100-hour legislative blitz, House Democrats are expected to vote today to increase the minimum wage for the first time in a decade, to $7.25 an hour, in a move that economists say will raise pay for 13 million workers.
 The bill's chances are less certain in the Senate, largely because of friction over a Republican push to include tax breaks for small business in the bill. Senate Republicans have hinted that, without such tax cuts, they will filibuster the measure, a move that the bill's supporters would need 60 votes to overcome. 
The legislation would lift the federal wage floor, currently $5.15 an hour, to $7.25 in three steps between now and 2009. 
 ''Minimum-wage workers desperately need a raise,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. ''It is a moral outrage that millions of Americans who work full time still live in poverty.''
 After opposing a minimum-wage increase for years, many Republicans now say they favor one, but only if it is coupled with a tax cut for restaurants and other small businesses -- the groups they say would be hurt most by the wage increase. 
 ''The Democrat leadership's unbalanced proposal may increase the minimum wage, but it leaves small businesses and their workers to fend for themselves,'' said Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the Education and Labor Committee. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. McKeon and Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced a competing minimum-wage bill that includes billions of dollars in tax breaks. One such break would allow faster depreciation for newly built restaurants, allowing them to record the building cost on financial statements over 15 years instead of the current rule of 39 years, and thus lower taxes.
 President Bush has said he might accept a higher minimum wage, but only if it is tied to tax cuts to soften the blow for business.
 Some Democrats and many of their liberal and labor allies assert that the minimum wage should not be used as an excuse to give more tax breaks to business.
 ''For the past 10 years, Republican leaders have held the minimum wage hostage,'' said the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney. ''Corporations and wealthy Americans have gotten their rewards. Now it's time to do the right thing for low-wage workers, with no payoffs to business.''
 Frustrated by Congress's inaction, 28 states have adopted minimum wages above the federal floor, affecting 70 percent of the work force. 
 In an unusual move for a minimum-wage bill -- typically it is handled by the House and Senate labor committees -- the Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing today on the bill.
 ''To call a minimum-wage increase 'overdue' is the understatement of the year,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and the committee's chairman. ''This Congress promised to raise the minimum wage, and we will. We also need to pass meaningful small-business incentives along with a wage increase. We can do both, and we will.''
 Many economists, especially conservative ones, insist that raising the minimum wage would not reduce poverty, saying it would ultimately reduce the number of jobs for low-skilled workers. But other economists, especially liberal ones, say a higher minimum would have virtually no effect on job levels while it lifted the pay for millions of low-wage workers.
 ''The increase will make a big difference for someone who makes the minimum wage -- you're talking about thousands of dollars a year in extra earnings,'' said Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, and one of the economists scheduled to testify before the Finance Committee. ''It's important to remember that if you don't have a binding wage floor, a lot of workers are going to end up disconnected from the improving economy and that's exactly what's happened.''
 Mr. Bernstein's institute estimates that six million workers earn less than $7.25 an hour, but workers earning a dollar or two more than that can also expect to see their wages increase if a new minimum is enacted. 
 Joseph Sabia, a professor of consumer economics at the University of Georgia, said an increase would do little to lift workers out of poverty.
 ''Most people who earn the minimum wage are not poor or near poor,'' Professor Sabia said. ''If the goal is to help the working poor, it would be better to raise the earned-income tax credit,'' which refunds cash to poor workers. 
 The traditional economists' view has been that a higher minimum wage would mean some job losses for low-wage workers. But a landmark 1994 study by David Card and Alan Krueger upset the common wisdom by finding that there were no overall job losses when New Jersey raised its minimum wage.
 David Neumark, a longtime critic of that study and an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine, said most credible studies had concluded that an increase in the minimum wage did hurt employment for unskilled workers, although most studies did not find major job reductions. He said an increase to $7.25 might reduce job levels for the least skilled workers by 4 percent.
 ''The most affected workers are the ones you'd most like to help,'' Professor Neumark said. ''If the workers who get raises are middle-class teenagers and the ones who lose jobs are unskilled workers in poor jobs, you can increase poverty.'' 
 Harry Holzer, a professor of public policy at Georgetown University, acknowledged that there might be some job losses, but he said that they would be minor and would be far outweighed by the wage gains.
 ''Minimum-wage earners are concentrated in the bottom half of families by income,'' Professor Holzer said. ''They might not be in the bottom 10 percent, but they might be in the bottom 10 to 40 percentile. Will a minimum-wage increase dramatically reduce poverty? Probably not. But it will redistribute income toward the bottom half of American workers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) Labor; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Taxation; Small Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: JIM MCCRERY (58%); BUCK MCKEON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (53%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



209 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Vows to Crack Down On New Orleans Violence

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
Reeling from a spate of killings that threatens this city's economic lifeline, tourism, officials gathered at the site of the year's first murder Tuesday evening and promised to redouble crime-fighting efforts. 
 Eight people have been killed in the new year, putting the city well on track to keeping its place as one of the country's most violent. The killings, along with an economy still struggling to recover from Hurricane Katrina, and the onset of Mardi Gras festivities next month, lent urgency to Tuesday's vow, one heard periodically here when murders spike.
Each day's killings have become the preoccupation of New Orleans residents fearful that the police are at a loss. The shooting death in her home last week of a young filmmaker, Helen Hill, has especially drawn attention, as has the killing of a local musician, Dinerral Shavers, on Dec. 28. 
 A citizens' march on City Hall to demand stronger measures is planned for Thursday. 
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin announced Tuesday that to free the police for foot patrols -- officers rarely leave their cars here -- sheriff's deputies would be enlisted to cruise neighborhoods. 
 Police checkpoints for drugs and alcohol will be set up from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., a measure that avoids a curfew, which business owners opposed. 
 With the district attorney looking on, Mr. Nagin said there would be a renewed focus on prosecuting murder cases in a city where only a few such cases end with a jail sentence.
 ''We will put all of our resources to focus on murder and violent crime,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''I stand before you saying, Enough is enough.''
 Virtually all of the city's political, law-enforcement and tourism leaders were gathered under the television lights in the incongruous setting, a tumbledown block in the Central City neighborhood, the city's most violent. 
 Residents of the area, curious about the unusual commotion, stood silently at the fringes of the gathering as politicians and law-enforcement officials addressed the crowd. 
 ''Let me say to the thugs out there, This isn't your city,'' the president of the City Council, Oliver Thomas, told those gathered. ''If this was your city, you wouldn't be shooting down our brothers and sisters.''
 The spike in killings began the same day that the police chief, Warren Riley, suggested that the city was becoming safer because the total number of murders in 2006 was lower than in preceding years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); CITIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOURISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); HURRICANES (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); WEATHER (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SENTENCING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); MARDI GRAS (70%); POLITICS (68%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: Adam Nossiter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



210 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Warsaw's Enclave of Villas

BYLINE: By BEATA PASEK

 BODY:
Warsaw is densely covered with Communist-era housing projects, so finding a village-like setting just minutes from the bustling city center seems like an unattainable dream. But the city has its surprises, like Saska Kepa, a green enclave of villas across the Vistula River from downtown.
 Kai Schoenhals, an American restaurant owner, knew instantly that he was lucky to find a place in Saska Kepa. He arrived in Poland in the early 1990s, drawn by the opportunities of a young free-market economy. After several years of shuttling between California and Poland, he finally settled in Warsaw and married Katarzyna Figura, a Polish actress. 
When the couple found the house in Saska Kepa in 2003, it was filled with kitschy furnishings and had a backyard full of weeds. But they knew it would suit a family perfectly.
 ''Kids are the center for us and there is no better place for them,'' said Mr. Schoenhals, whose two daughters are now 2 and 4. ''It has a garden facing south, beautiful light, it's safe and quiet. You would never believe you are in the city.''
 They say it is important that their neighbors -- apart from some foreigners like the Indonesian ambassador -- are ordinary people who have lived in the area for decades. ''It's a normal neighborhood,'' Mr. Schoenhals said. ''And we want to keep it real for our kids. We don't want to live in a ghetto for the rich.''
 Narrow streets lined with villas, many of them fine examples of pre-war modernism; branches of lilac hanging over the sidewalk; and corner shops selling homemade food are all among the charms of Saska Kepa. ''People don't move out from here,'' said the Schoenhalses' neighbor, Krystyna Heybowicz-Gieros, who has lived in Saska Kepa for more than 50 years. ''They don't sell their houses, they pass them in a will.'' 
 Iwona Osik, a real estate agent at the Afrykanska agency in Warsaw, agrees that houses in Saska Kepa rarely make it to the market. 
 In general, residential prices in Poland have been soaring, propelled by the growing economy and falling interest rates. They also have been driven up by foreign buyers who invested heavily in Polish real estate before the country's admission to the European Union in 2004 on the expectation that property values would increase -- and they have. 
 According to the RedNet Property consultancy, prices of Warsaw apartments rose almost 50 percent in 2006 and are expected to continue to grow this year, although at a slower rate. Analysts expect houses will increase in value even faster than apartments as land in the city is becoming more costly.
 A friend told Mr. Schoenhals that a 350-square-meter, or almost 3,770-square-foot, house was for sale in Saska Kepa. But while the decision to buy was quick, the paperwork took almost half a year to complete. As an American, Mr. Schoenhals needed permission from the Polish Internal Affairs Ministry to buy land, and he said he found dealing with local officials ''a mess.'' 
 The two-story house was built by a furrier in the 1950s. With seven bedrooms and a pool in the backyard, it was lavish by Communist standards. In the 1990s, a beer company bought the property to house clients. The company renovated the home with 84 halogen lights and large marble tiles in the living room that made the house feel ''like a car showroom,'' Mr. Schoenhals said. 
 Now the house is furnished with 19th-century chests and dressers that the couple bought at antique fairs, turning it into more of a country residence.
 Renovation was ''a delicate puzzle'' that took several engineers to solve, Mr. Schoenhals said. The living room, which totals 80 square meters, or a little more than 860 square feet, has a sloping ceiling supported by an intricate web of beams. There were few windows, and the couple added additional ones to let in more light. They also had a fireplace repositioned so it faced the garden. 
 Warsaw's cold winters made Mr. Schoenhals give up on the idea of restoring the swimming pool, so the couple settled for an inflatable pool, an outdoor shower and a sandbox for the children. 
 Recently, the family had an unpleasant surprise when construction began on a six-story apartment building just one house away. Local law allows only two-story buildings in the neighborhood. Nevertheless, the building's construction is continuing. ''We will build a wall of green here,'' Mr. Schoenhals said.''That's as much as we can do.'' 
 The house came with a bar in the basement, which Mr. Schoenhals found useful while testing drinks for his restaurants. But his favorite spot is the fireplace area, which is surrounded by bags of walnuts collected from a tree in the garden.
 ''Like a true Polish man, I made a walnut nalewka,'' said Mr. Schoenhals, displaying a case full of small bottles filled with brown liquor that he wants to send to his family in the States. ''I just need to design labels.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kai Schoenhals, an American, and Katarzyna Figura, his wife, own this cozy home in Saska Kepa, a village-like setting outside Warsaw. (Photo by Piotr Malecki for the International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



211 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; America's Big Wheels; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Looks Back To Past Glories And Dreams of Muscle 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
One of the Ford Motor Company's showcase concept cars is the imposing Interceptor sedan, with its big wheels and a burly front end that suggests an armor-plated battering ram. 
 Lest anybody miss the point, it becomes clear as the car rotates on its turntable for a rear view. There, in brushed aluminum block letters, the license plate reads: MUSCLE, with the ''U'' and the ''S'' in red and blue.
It is a license plate that could easily appear on other cars here, most from Detroit but some from its foreign competitors. As Detroit automakers try to find a winning game plan to reverse their sliding market share, it is clear from the cars on display at the North American International Auto Show here that they are trying to play up a distinct advantage over their Asian and European competitors -- nobody, after all, can design the look of the American muscle car quite like American car companies.
 ''It's absolutely legitimate for American producers to reach back into their rich heritage,'' said Robert A. Lutz, the vice chairman of General Motors. The appeal of Detroit's classic cars also goes well beyond American shores, he added. 
 ''Even middle-aged Chinese remember seeing secret photographs of Buick Rivieras and Camaros and Mustangs, and they thought, 'Whoa, communism is good, but this looks even better,' '' he said.
 But demographics and car buyers' changing tastes may work against Detroit's efforts, say Japanese executives. These cars resonate best with buyers who can remember them -- an aging group -- and they cannot be Detroit's only response, these executives say, if it hopes to end a market share decline under way for a decade. 
 And, of course, these cars have never been about fuel economy, which has become an overriding issue since gasoline prices spiked last year.
 ''Heritage is one play -- but it's not the only play,'' said James Lentz, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. He added, ''Eventually, you run out of things in your closet.''
 Mr. Lutz, perhaps more than any other executive in Detroit, has pushed strategy and design in the direction of muscle cars. The sculpted sides and hood stripes on a bright orange Camaro convertible concept car instantly bring to mind the Camaros of the past.
 A short walk away is the latest incarnation of the Dodge Viper, which almost single-handedly revived interest in Chrysler a decade and a half ago, thanks to a design championed by Mr. Lutz, who was then the No. 2 executive there. This Viper, with a V-10 engine that generates 600 horsepower, looks even more like another Detroit classic, the Chevrolet Corvette.
 There is a good chance that some of these cars will be on American roads in a few years. G.M. has already announced plans to build the Camaro hardtop, while Chrysler plans to build the Dodge Challenger, which it showed as a concept car last year.
 Chrysler already has a track record with at least one of its muscle cars, the Chrysler 300 sedan, a hit with urban buyers from the moment it hit the market three years go. Though its initial buzz has faded somewhat, the 300C still managed flat sales in 2006 despite a jump in gasoline prices that sent sales of Chrysler's sport utility vehicles plummeting.
 Ford's Mustang, meanwhile, has been a rare bright note for the company, which is facing one of the deepest financial crises in its history. Mustang, reincarnated in 2004, rose to 166,530 sales last year, up 3.5 percent.
 The Mustang provides the underpinnings for the Interceptor, whose gutsy, low-riding stance immediately says gangster -- a look reinforced inside with its brushed aluminum and black interior.
 ''That can only be an American sedan,'' said Mark Fields, the president of Ford's operations for the Americas. ''It's got a rawness to it that is really what we're known for.''
 Just to underline the point, a fleet of Mustangs, in red, white and black, is parked nearby. Ford plans to turn out a new Mustang every year in the hope of building on the current car's momentum, Mr. Fields said.
 The strategy has its risks, of course. By 2010, when the concept cars on display here may be on sale, more than 50 percent of the American public will be under age 40, far too young to remember when the inspirations for these cars cruised on American roads.
 Mr. Fields acknowledged that. ''If you take 10 youngsters and show them that Interceptor, they won't give a hoot about the history,'' he said.
 To these younger buyers, classic cars might well be something like the Acura Integra, Honda's original entry-level luxury car from the 1980s, and even Honda Civic coupes, which have become the favorite cars for the customizing crowd.
 Young buyers, in fact, have shown an appetite for decking out their cars with custom features like wheel covers, exhaust pipes and contemporary upholstery. Muscle cars, whose exteriors are already a statement, may not give them the chance for self-expression found on vehicles like the Mini Cooper and Toyota's Scion brand cars.
 Likewise, Detroit's muscle car strategy may face a threat from Asian companies. The Lexus division of Toyota caused a stir here with its LF-A, a high-performance concept sports car that is every bit as striking as its muscular Detroit rivals.
 And Nissan is almost finished with the next version of its muscle car, the 350Z, which went on sale in 2002. That car echoed, but did not directly copy, the first 240Z, introduced in 1970 in the American market.
 ''It's very nice to have the heritage of the Z, but we don't want to use the heritage as it was,'' said Shiro Nakamura, senior vice president for design at Nissan. ''We would rather be looking to the future.'' 
 Detroit companies, he said, would be smart to follow a similar path. ''It's O.K. to use American muscle, as long as the idea is original and creative,'' Mr. Nakamura said.
 Since they sell in relatively small numbers, muscle cars have always been seen as much as selling tools as products in themselves, drawing buyers to showrooms in hopes they will purchase something, whether or not it is the car they came to see. 
 ''These are tremendous traffic builders,'' said Michael J. Jackson, chief executive of AutoNation, the nation's largest automobile dealer network.
 But a well-crafted muscle car may put a weak lineup in an even dimmer light, canceling out some of its effectiveness. So companies have to pay attention to all their vehicles, not just the hottest looking ones.
 ''I want to learn a lot from the spirit of our previous models, but I don't want to use the direct shapes or their design cues,'' Mr. Nakamura said.
 American car executives say they are updating, not copying, their original cars as they are also revamping their lineups, hoping all their cars will complement each other.
 ''I don't believe in slavish retro cars,'' Mr. Lutz said. The concept works best when ''we carefully go back to a heritage and remind Americans of the glory days of the American automobile industry.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Dodge Viper, above, renewed interest in Chrysler about a decade ago. The Ford Interceptor, center, has the underpinnings of the Mustang. The Chevrolet Camaro concept car, below, is reminiscent of its predecessors. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONCEPT CARS (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SPORTS CARS (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MARKET SHARE (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) Automobiles; North American International Auto Show; Design; Trade Shows and Fairs; International Trade and World Market; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



212 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Use of Private Debt Collectors Is Criticized 

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The national taxpayer advocate called on Congress yesterday to repeal the authority of the Internal Revenue Service to use private debt collectors. 
 In her annual report, the taxpayer advocate, Nina E. Olson, said the private debt collection program was economically inefficient and prone to abuse. In particular, she faulted the I.R.S. for not disclosing certain ''psychological techniques'' used by the private contractors to try to collect unpaid taxes.
The office of the taxpayer advocate was created by Congress to identify problems within the I.R.S. that affect taxpayers and to promote their interests before the agency and Congress, which writes the tax code. 
 Ms. Olson's office provided its most extensive review yet of the private debt-collection program, which it has been monitoring for two years since plans for it were announced. The program, which formally started in September, is meant to farm out easily collectible tax bills, typically owed by low-income taxpayers, to private collection agencies. When the I.R.S. announced the program, it said that the private entities would abide by the same publicly disclosed rules as I.R.S. employees. 
 Private debt collection has drawn criticism that it is not cost-efficient and that some of the private firms hired by the I.R.S. have questionable business practices. One firm hired by the agency was the law firm of Linebarger Goggan Blair & Sampson of Austin, Tex., whose former partner, Juan Pena, pleaded guilty to federal bribery charges for his role in winning a collection contract from the city of San Antonio. 
 The taxpayer advocate also criticized some of the techniques used by private collectors. ''In an initial draft of this report, we cited sections of a collection script used by one of the contractors which used psychological tricks during the conversation to get the taxpayers to commit to a payment, which is then followed by a belated Fair Debt Collection Practices Act warning at the end of the conversation,'' the report says.
 ''The I.R.S. informed us that private collection agencies had designated the 'collection scripts' and operational plans as proprietary and that we could not cite specific portions of the scripts.'' 
 She then wrote that the I.R.S. had later asked the three private debt collection firms to release information on their practices. One firm complied, Ms. Olson wrote, the second released partial information, and the third refused to release any information.
 In a brief telephone interview yesterday, Ms. Olson said, ''Taxes are the lifeblood of government; to have private agents collecting them changes the relationship between the taxpayer and government.''
 In its written response to Ms. Olson's criticism of the private debt-collection program, the I.R.S. said that it ''strives to make certain that P.C.A. employees adhere to the same guidelines and restrictions as I.R.S. employees.'' P.C.A. refers to private debt collectors. 
 The I.R.S. also said that it had taken steps to have all three private debt collection firms approve the release of the documents sought by Ms. Olson, and that it was releasing ''other appropriate information.''
 The I.R.S. began using three private debt collectors last September for 12,500 cases considered easy to collect, and expects to process 446,000 cases over two and a half years, Ms. Olson wrote. The collectors keep 25 cents of every dollar they collect. So far they have collected just 8 percent of the dollars assigned to them, she wrote -- less than certain I.R.S. units with more difficult collection cases. 
 ''Our conclusion is that this initiative is fatally flawed, risking much for a small return on investment,'' she wrote.
 The commissioner of internal revenue, Mark W. Everson, has said that if the I.R.S. had more money it would not have to outsource tax collection to private firms. 
 Ms. Olson also noted a 36 percent rise last year in demands, called notices of levy, that the I.R.S. sends to delinquent taxpayers asking them to settle their bills with the agency. A significant portion of such demands were served on elderly or disabled taxpayers, she wrote. 
 In her report, Ms. Olson also recommended that Congress improve funding for the I.R.S., which received $10.6 billion to collect $2.2 trillion, or 98 percent of all federal revenue. She also recommended, for a second consecutive year, that Congress protect not-guilty spouses from the burdens of tax crimes, by repealing joint and several liability rules. She also called upon Congress to create a federal oversight agency to supervise quasigovernment retirement plans, ''to ensure that they are carrying out their fiduciary duties.''
 Ms. Olson also said that the I.R.S. failed to turn over documents concerning its internal deliberations on tax matters. This was the first time that the I.R.S. failed to turn over documents requested by the office of the taxpayer advocate, she said.
 ''The effect of this refusal is to thwart Congressional intent in seeking a taxpayer perspective on potential problems within the I.R.S.,'' Ms. Olson wrote. ''As a consequence, Congress is being left in the dark, and taxpayers are being harmed.'' Ms. Olson did not specify in her report what types of documents she was looking for or what issues they addressed.
 In its response, the I.R.S. said that it was ''committed to improving the way it manages instructions to staff.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nina E. Olson, the national taxpayer advocate, says private companies have collected just 8 percent of the dollars assigned to them. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX FRAUD (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ETHICS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); LAWYERS (67%); BRIBERY (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Taxation; Tax Evasion ; Collection Agencies; Ethics

COMPANY: LINEBARGER GOGGAN BLAIR & SAMPSON LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: Nina E Olson; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



213 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Two Places Where Readers Hold On to Their Bookstores

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Something quite unlikely happened around here 34 years ago.
 On the same day, Sept. 9, 1972, two local bookstores opened -- totally independent of each other -- in this Westchester County town and in Chappaqua, the next town to the north.
And something almost as unusual still goes on. Amid Amazon.com, the Internet, Barnes & Noble and Borders superstores, iPods, Wal-Marts and the myriad factors that have killed off local bookstores, both still exist. 
 The death of the local bookstore is a sad, oft-told tale (most recently in these pages about Micawber Books, which is closing after 26 years in Princeton, N.J.). What lessons can be drawn from the fact that the Village Bookstore in Pleasantville and the Second Story Book Shop in Chappaqua are still alive and kicking? Not a lot of easy ones, it turns out, but maybe a few things that matter in ways that go far beyond books.
 Not much remains the same, both at the shops and in the towns. Pleasantville has gone from solidly blue collar to increasingly pricey. Chappaqua, once a distant, quiet exurb of stone walls and rushing streams, now would feel like the quintessential strivers' suburbia even if the Clintons didn't live there.
 During its 34 years, the Pleasantville bookstore has been operated by five different owners at six different locations, one of them twice, under two different names (until six years ago it was just the Book Store). The Chappaqua store, whose name comes from its original location above a shoe store, moved to bigger digs 14 years ago, almost lost its lease a year or so back, and still soldiers on.
 The Village Bookstore, in Pleasantville, for the past three years has been owned by a local couple, Yvonne vanCort and Roy Solomon, both 62. They bought it less for business reasons than for civic ones -- they felt someone should keep it alive and they decided they could. 
 Mr. Solomon said his first thought was: ''Seven-day-a-week retail -- are you nuts?'' 
 But they've found -- surprise -- that people still read, that they want a local bookstore where the owners know and care about books, and that people are willing to pay a few more bucks than they would at Amazon or Borders to support it. Mr. Solomon, in particular, clearly has a small entrepreneur's tenacity and focus. Their sales have grown every month, and they're moving yet again two doors up the street to a less expensive location where they hope to make it as a going economic concern -- if not one you could recommend to a young couple hoping to pay the mortgage and send kids to college.
 The Chappaqua store, the Second Story, is owned by the woman who started it, Joan Ripley, 73. It hasn't been easy there, either, though a few Clinton book events haven't hurt. When a steep rent increase almost cost Mrs. Ripley her lease, customers signed petitions to keep the store open, and the Chubb Insurance Company, through a local resident, helped underwrite some of the rent as part of an ad hoc sponsorship. 
 Mrs. Ripley does her best to compete with the giant Borders in Mount Kisco, the next town up, but it's enough of a struggle that in November she took to passing out fliers to customers reminding them of the store's history and asking for their support. That led one of them, Randi Childs, to send out an e-mail, which was then forwarded around town, imploring people to support the bookstore and buy all their books there, lest Chappaqua lose it. It worked. The store had a stellar Christmas season that should help keep the wolf at bay for a while at least.
 You can't find too many absolutes there. Given rising suburban rents, any business can find itself priced out of existence.
 But here are a few. You can't get rich running a small-town bookstore, but smart, resourceful businesspeople can survive. If lots of trends can kill bookstores, plenty of suburbs are full of smart, literate residents who treasure having one nearby. And, to some extent, people really do get what they pay for. There are good things about the fancy Borders in Mount Kisco, but if people want the small independent with the hand-written tags recommending books real people actually read -- or the other local shops battling the big box stores -- it's their choice whether they live or die. 
 As Mrs. Ripley wrote in her flier: ''You, the reader, determine how long a life a book may have and you, too, determine how long a bookstore should keep its doors open. Thanks to all of you who have supported us in the past we can only continue as long as you, the readers, decide you want us to stay.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Outside the Second Story in Chappaqua, customers pass by a statue of a fully laden book lover. The store started life over a shoe store.
 At the Village Bookstore in Pleasantville, an owner, Yvonne vanCort, with a customer, Alfred Strasser, who was choosing a birthday card. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (75%); SHOE STORES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); SUBURBS (66%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (92%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Village Bookstore (Pleasantville, NY); Second Story Book Shop (Chappaqua, NY)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (92%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Chappaqua (NY); Pleasantville (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



214 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Prohibits All Transactions With a Major Iranian Bank 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
The United States, moving to raise pressure on Iran, on Tuesday barred American financial institutions from doing business with a major Iranian bank after concluding that it had been involved in illicit weapons programs.
 The move against Bank Sepah, announced by the Treasury Department, also affected North Korea, which American officials said had used the bank to facilitate payments to a North Korean group that exports missile technologies.
The announcement applies to domestic and foreign branches of American banks, as well as to American citizens working at overseas banks that deal with Bank Sepah anywhere in the world. The department also said that no American bank can transfer dollars to Bank Sepah or its branches and subsidiaries in Rome, London, Frankfurt and Paris. 
 The Treasury announcement was the second time in the last year that a major Iranian bank had been barred from any dealings with the American financial system. It is the first specific move against an Iranian bank since the imposition of sanctions on Iran by the United Nations Security Council on Dec. 23.
 Last year, the United States took similar action against Bank Saderat, another of Iran's major institutions, citing what it said was the bank's involvement in financing terrorism. Both Bank Saderat and Bank Sepah, cited for financial transactions linked to weapons proliferation, are state owned or controlled.
 Though the two banks have virtually no direct links to American banks, the designation means that no American bank can help facilitate -- by transferring dollars, for example -- any transaction between a European bank and Bank Sepah. Thus if an Italian or German bank wanted to supply dollars for a transaction involving Bank Sepah, it would be unable to do so because American banks would be barred from transferring them.
 American experts say these steps effectively extend the reach of American law to other countries, though to only a limited degree.
 ''By taking this action, the United States is putting immense pressure on our allies and trading partners to treat Bank Sepah the same way we do,'' said Judith Lee, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher specializing in sanctions law. ''It is an effort to make U.S. actions against Iran extraterritorial.''
 European countries have opposed moves by the United States to apply the principle of extraterritoriality, a term referring to cases when American law can affect dealings entirely within another country. But the Bush administration recently has stepped up its use of various laws and directives to press forward with the concept.
 For example, since oil is traded in dollars, the reach of American directives could be significant, many banking experts say. In theory, Tuesday's action would prevent Bank Sepah from facilitating an oil sale in which dollars are used. Iran has already announced that, because of American directives, it has begun selling oil for euros rather than dollars.
 ''Bank Sepah is the financial linchpin of Iran's missile procurement network, and has actively assisted Iran's pursuit of missiles capable of carrying weapons of mass destruction,'' said Stuart Levey, the Treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence.
 Mr. Levey said Bank Sepah had been involved in transactions for Iran's Aerospace Industries Organization and two Iranian missile companies. These three entities were mentioned in the Security Council resolution approved in late December calling on all countries to avoid doing business with various groups in Iran.
 Mr. Levey also said the United States had been in touch with authorities in Britain, France, Italy and Germany to discuss the need to persuade local financial institutions to stop doing business with Bank Sepah. 
 Unlike the United States, Mr. Levey said that European countries, which have not enacted laws like those passed here, ''don't have specific authority to act as the United States does'' against European banks or businesses engaging in transactions with other banks and businesses linked to terrorism or weapons programs.
 Nevertheless, Treasury officials say Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Mr. Levey have pressed European authorities and banks to try to isolate both Bank Sepah and Bank Saderat.
 Mr. Levey said that the branch of Bank Sepah in Rome had had significant involvement in financial transactions related to Iran's missile program, and that Italian authorities had been alerted to the problem. 
 There was no immediate comment from the press office of the Italian Embassy in Washington on whether Italy was taking any separate actions in consonance with the United States actions.
 When the United States moved against Bank Saderat last year, many banking experts predicted that it was only a matter of time before Washington took action against other financial institutions in Iran.
 American officials say already intensive diplomacy has been stepped up after the Security Council resolution adopted in late December as part of a campaign to get Iran to stop enriching uranium in what the West has charged is a clandestine nuclear weapons program.
 That resolution ended up being weakened at the request of Russia and China, and some American officials say they need to shift tactics and use other means to exert financial pressure on Iran.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuart Levey, a Treasury official, said Bank Sepah has facilitated Iran's illicit weapons programs. (Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); ENERGY MARKETS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (53%); TERRORISM (51%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; United States International Relations; Banks and Banking; Arms Sales Abroad

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) Bank Sepah (Iranian Bank); Treasury Department

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (56%) Iran; North Korea; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



215 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Could Serve as a Guide in California's Health Insurance Bid

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
In its drive to provide health insurance to nearly all its residents, Massachusetts has already signed up more than half of the poorest people who are eligible.
 But experts and politicians agree that the bigger challenge will be the next 150,000 people: the working poor who will get a state-subsidized rate but will still have to pay for insurance, typically $18 to $170 a month depending on their income.
''This group is going to be much more challenging,'' said Paul Ginsburg, an economist who leads the Center for Studying Health System Change. ''They're dealing with people who don't even think about having health insurance.'' 
 As California maps out its path to near-universal health insurance, Massachusetts could offer some guideposts.
 ''We're really changing the culture of providing heath care,'' said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonpartisan group that studies state spending. ''For some people, it's changing the mind-set from one of showing up at the emergency room or at the local health center with a problem to understanding that they can be insured. Nobody's expecting that would happen overnight.''
 Devising a plan that all of the state's political stakeholders could accept took hard work and time. It dates back to at least 2004, when Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican and former venture capitalist, proposed requiring an ''individual mandate'' that everyone get insurance, a feature of the plan now being proposed in California. The president of the State Senate, Robert E. Travaglini, a Democrat, also called for expanded coverage, presenting a more incremental plan than Mr. Romney's.
 Then the speaker of the House, Salvatore F. DiMasi, a more liberal Democrat, demanded an expansion of Medicaid and a payroll tax for employers who did not provide insurance. Those provisions were opposed to different degrees by Mr. Romney and Mr. Travaglini, and the legislation almost fell apart.
 But several factors helped propel the parties to an agreement: a federal threat to cut $385 million in financing if the number of uninsured was not reduced and the support of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat and rival of Mr. Romney.
 The plan requires about 515,000 people, most of the state's uninsured, to get health insurance by July 1 or face penalties that could include the loss of a personal income tax deduction. Medicaid was expanded somewhat to pay for those below the poverty line. The state's $1 billion pool to pay for free care was reconfigured to be used for subsidized premiums for people earning up to three times the federal poverty limit.
 The state will set rules to help insurance companies create health plans intended to be affordable enough for people with lower-middle incomes.
 So far, about 29,000 people at or below the poverty line have enrolled, or slightly more than half of those eligible for this type of enrollment.
 The second phase, focusing on the working poor, began this month and is considered much more difficult. 
 The insurers selling the subsidized health plans have been trying to get the word out.
 Christina Severin, executive director of Network Health, the insurer with most of the lowest-priced plans, said her company was advertising in several languages and enlisting hospitals, clinics and churches to recruit the uninsured.
 The other major challenge will involve people not eligible for subsidized plans. First, the agency set up to put the law into effect, Commonwealth Connector, will have to set standards for affordable health care plans, deciding, for example, whether to require plans to include prescription coverage. 
 ''On the one hand, there's pressure not to set the bar too low so it's not some sort of inadequate plan,'' Mr. Widmer said. ''On the other hand, you need to have options because you're trying to draw in a lot of different groups.
 Massachusetts is clearly breaking new ground, going further than other states.
 Vermont's program, passed last May, will require private insurance companies to offer coverage for the uninsured starting in October 2007. To pay for the program, employers who do not offer health insurance will pay $365 per employee, and taxes on cigarettes will increase. Unlike Massachusetts, Vermont will not make participation mandatory.
 Maine's program, Dirigo, which started two years ago, has run into several obstacles. Fewer than 20,000 people have been enrolled in the program; the goal was to cover all 130,000 of Maine's uninsured by 2009.
 Business and insurance groups have sued over a provision that requires private insurers to pay. And a study group recently recommended considering individual mandates, requiring employers to provide coverage and imposing new taxes.
 ''Maine has had a fair amount of problems because it was based on a very questionable idea,'' Stuart H. Altman, a professor of health economics at Brandeis University, said, adding, ''It's not going well.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about a proposal by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to extend health care coverage to all of California's residents misstated a requirement for insurers. They would have to contribute 85 percent of premiums to health care services, not 85 percent of profits. The article also referred incorrectly to the precedent for universal coverage. California would be the fifth state, not the fourth, to try near universal coverage. (Besides Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont, Hawaii has also tried.)
 A picture caption with an articleWednesday about efforts by Massachusetts to extend health care coverage to all residents reversed the names in some copies of two people who helped an immigrant from Bangladesh sign up for insurance. Feroza Bashar, a translator, was at right, and Goretti Macedo of Cambridge Health Alliance was at left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdul Aziz, an immigrant from Bangladesh, signed up for health insurance through the State of Massachusetts with help from Feroza Bashar, right, a translator, and Goretti Macedo of Cambridge Health Alliance. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); INCOME TAX (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Pam Belluck

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts; California

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



216 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Inc.'s Hostile Takeover

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela -- the very portrait of a modern Latin American strongman -- is not content to exercise near-total political and military control of his country. Now he is tightening his grip on the Venezuelan economy. That's bad news for foreign investors, but even more so for the Venezuelan people who will have to pay the price for an economy plagued by increasing inefficiency and corruption. 
 Mr. Chavez announced this week that he would nationalize electricity and telecommunications companies. Venezuela's biggest telecommunications company is partly owned by Verizon Communications. Its largest publicly traded electricity company is controlled by another American company, the AES Corporation. Mr. Chavez also declared his intention to take control of four multibillion-dollar oil projects with significant investments from foreign companies.
State control is rarely an efficient way to run companies. And nationalizations are not a good way to encourage further foreign investment. Mr. Chavez is already using the state-controlled oil company to reward his cronies at the expense of getting the best return on Venezuela's most lucrative resource. 
 Exactly what form these nationalizations will take remains unclear. Whatever Mr. Chavez is planning, he needs to fairly compensate shareholders. And while the Bush administration needs to condemn any seizure of American assets, it should choose its words carefully so as not to play into Mr. Chavez's Yanqui-baiting game. 
 The administration can best advance American interests, and those of the people of Latin America, through more active engagement of the region's many democracies. It also needs to press ahead with trade agreements and other forms of economic assistance and cooperation. That is the smartest way to counter Mr. Chavez's demagoguery. 
 Mr. Chavez's latest moves serve as yet another reminder of why America needs to curb its insatiable appetite for oil. The United States is the biggest buyer of Venezuelan petroleum products. If a powerful Hugo Chavez is against U.S. interests, we should stop paying for his Russian fighter jets and helicopters -- and his nationalizations -- with our gas-guzzling cars and trucks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); TRENDS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Editorials; United States International Relations; Electric Light and Power; Telephones and Telecommunications; Nationalization of Industry; Foreign Aid; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: AES CORP (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (83%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



217 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

 BODY:

CHAVEZ PLAN DRAWS ALARM -- Investors reacted with alarm in the United States and throughout Latin America as they measured the impact of a plan by Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, left, to nationalize critical areas of the economy. Flashbacks of past nationalizations during another turbulent era, in places like Cuba and Chile, helped drive down the Caracas stock exchange's main index by almost 19 percent. [Page A1.] 


APPLE UNVEILS CELLPHONE -- With characteristic showmanship, Steven P. Jobs unveiled Apple's long-awaited entry into the cellphone world, pronouncing its iPhone an achievement on a par with the Macintosh and the iPod. [A1.]

THE MAKING OF THE iPHONE -- Cingular and Apple may be fast-moving technology companies, but they took their sweet time putting together a deal to offer cellular service for the new iPhone device. Officials of the two companies began discussions nearly two years ago, in February 2005. [C1.]

INTERNET NEUTRALITY LEGISLATION -- Senior lawmakers, emboldened by the recent restrictions on AT&T and the change in control of Congress, have begun drafting legislation that would prevent high-speed Internet companies from charging content providers for priority access. [C1.]

MUSCLE CARS ON DISPLAY -- As Detroit automakers try to find a winning game plan to reverse their sliding market share, it is clear from the cars on display at the North American International Auto Show that they are trying to play up a distinct advantage over their Asian and European competitors -- nobody, after all, can design the American muscle car quite like American car companies. [C1.]

ANOTHER AUTO RIVALRY -- Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman of General Motors, says his company has fallen behind Toyota in terms of clout on Capitol Hill. [C4.]

MILLS ISSUES WARNING -- The Mills Corporation, the real estate investment trust known for off-price malls in outlying suburbs that combine entertainment and shopping, said that it was running out of cash and might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection, putting its shareholders at risk of losing their investment. [C3.]

RULING ON PATENT SUITS -- The Supreme Court opened the door to a category of patent lawsuits that a lower court had barred, issuing a decision that will probably shift power in the courtroom from bigger patent-owning companies to smaller start-ups that rely on obtaining licenses for patented technology. [C3.]

WARNING FROM PUTIN -- An unyielding President Vladimir V. Putin raised the possibility of diverting oil transit routes away from Belarus, a day after Moscow cut off pipeline deliveries of crude oil headed to customers in Eastern and Central Europe through the country. [A13.]

CALIFORNIA PRESSES OIL COMPANIES -- Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California said that he would order the state to require its petroleum refiners and gasoline sellers to cut the emissions of heat-trapping gases associated with the use of their products by 10 percent. [A20.]

ALCOA'S NET RISES -- Alcoa said that fourth-quarter net income rose 60 percent on high metal prices and strong demand from aerospace, commercial transportation and building markets. [C4.]

DELL SAYS PLANT A TREE -- Michael S. Dell, in a speech at the Consumer Electronics Show, urged the electronics industry to foster the planting of trees to offset the effect on the environment of the energy consumed by the devices they make. [C6.]

UNITED PICKED FOR CHINA ROUTE -- The United States government has tentatively selected United Airlines to provide new nonstop service to China, federal regulators and the airline said. [C9.]

A QUESTION OF SUCCESSION -- When Home Depot announced the departure of its chairman and chief executive last week, it also said that three directors would remain on the board even though they were due to retire this spring. Corporate governance watchdogs say the move shows that Home Depot's board is doing a poor job of succession planning. [C1.]

THAILAND MAY RESTRICT CAPITAL -- Thailand warned that it might add further restrictions to foreign investors, ignoring warnings that the move was ill timed and damaging for a fragile economy already struggling to overcome the stigma of a military coup. [C11.]

SESSION IS MIXED -- Wall Street was mixed in an erratic session as investors debated whether the drop in oil prices would eventually bring down stocks as well. [C11.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

Comcast says it will hire 2,800 people for its East Coast cable division, buoyed by demand for the company's promotional package of video, Internet and phone services. (AP)

McAfee Inc., the security software maker, said yesterday that it expected to record pretax charges of $25 million to $45 million related to the extension of expiration dates on some employee stock option grants. (REUTERS)

A Brazilian court allowed Web surfers access to the popular video-sharing site YouTube, a day after they started blocking it because of a celebrity sex video. (REUTERS)

Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, said it would cut jobs at Dow Jones Newswires and Factiva to reduce overlap between the news groups. The number of positions to be eliminated is to be announced at a company meeting this morning. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Home Depot shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); PATENTS (89%); PATENT LAW (85%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (84%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); NEW CAR MODELS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (63%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); EMISSIONS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); STEVEN JOBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHILE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



218 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: VENEZUELAN PLAN SHAKES INVESTORS

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Simon Romero reported from Caracas, Venezuela, and Clifford Krauss reported from Houston. Vikas Bajaj, in New York, and Elisabeth Malkin, in Mexico City, contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
Verizon Communications had been looking to lighten its exposure to Latin America for some time when it struck a deal in April to sell investments in three properties in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Venezuela.
 Now, it probably wishes it had disconnected its Latin lines even sooner.
The company could possibly lose up to several hundred million dollars, thanks to President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, who threatened to nationalize the country's main telephone and electricity companies.
 Investors reacted with alarm here and in markets in the United States and throughout Latin America on Tuesday as they measured the impact of the plan by Mr. Chavez to nationalize crucial areas of the economy. Memories of past nationalizations during another turbulent era, in places like Cuba and Chile, helped drive down the Caracas stock exchange's main index by almost 19 percent. 
 Markets across Latin America declined Tuesday, but the drop was modest in most other countries, with the Bovespa index in Brazil and the Bolsa index of Mexico each falling 1.9 percent. The measured reaction appears to reflect the belief of investors that Mr. Chavez, in spite of his words, has limited influence on the economic policies of other governments in the region. 
 ''It has not turned into a widespread contagion,'' said David Riedel, president of the Riedel Research Group, who follows emerging market stocks. Compared with the 1990s, ''you have a more sophisticated base of investors that understand that Mexico is different from Venezuela.''
 Still, investors sold shares in American, Argentine and Mexican companies vulnerable to the move by Mr. Chavez to take control over entities that had been privatized by previous administrations.
 Owners of Venezuelan steel, banking, cement and hotel companies -- even the cable car operator that takes tourists to the top of the Avila mountain here -- could be affected by the push toward nationalization, analysts said.
 ''Chavez is deepening his revolution, but in doing so will he follow the law and compensate the companies whose assets will be nationalized?'' said Miguel Octavio, executive director of BBO Servicios Financieros, a brokerage firm, who calculated the costs of taking over companies in the telecommunications, electricity and oil industries, as well assuming their debts, at more than $15 billion.
 ''It doesn't seem like the government has thought this project out yet,'' Mr. Octavio said.
 Tony Snow, a White House spokesman, said on Tuesday, ''Nationalization has a long and inglorious history of failure around the world. We support the Venezuelan people and think this is an unhappy day for them.'' 
 Mr. Chavez further intensified worries with his request for vastly enhanced presidential authority from his Congress. If successful, those new powers would allow him to decree measures into law for one year, bypassing any debate in the legislature, where in any case all 167 deputies are his supporters. On top of that, he made a request to abolish the autonomy of Venezuela's central bank. The Venezuelan government did not immediately contact the American companies, which declined to discuss details. 
 ''There are many ways in which the Venezuelan government could proceed,'' said Peter Thonis, a spokesman for Verizon. ''Since they have not discussed specific plans, it would be premature for us to comment now.'' 
 In April, Verizon agreed to sell its 28.5 percent stake in Compania Anonima Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela, or CANTV, to America Movil and Telefonos de Mexico, for $676 million; the deal has not closed, so Verizon still owns the stake, and it was unclear how much the Chavez government would be willing to pay to take control. Neither America Movil or Telefonos de Mexico would comment. 
 Since taking power eight years ago, President Chavez has imposed stronger political control over the state oil company and has ordered the government to exert greater authority over several ventures with foreign oil firms. 
 Stopping short of Mexico's nationalization of foreign oil companies in the 1930s, the Venezuelan government has aimed to reach partnership agreements with foreign oil companies while raising its tax rates and royalties on foreign oil companies. 
 At the very least President Chavez's pledges Monday to nationalize companies in the telecommunications and electricity industries represented another retreat of the trend toward more private control of national economies and free market policies that swept Latin America in the 1990s. 
 Mr. Chavez has led that reversal, which has taken hold to one extent or another in Argentina and Ecuador, as well as Bolivia. 
 ''We have said for a while that if you are operating a domestic business in Venezuela, you are chronically at risk for something like this happening,'' said Thierry A. Wizman, a managing director and global emerging market strategist at Bear Stearns in New York. ''This is not the first time he has changed the rules for domestic businesses.'' 
 Still, Mr. Wizman notes Mr. Chavez cannot afford to seize assets brazenly without compensating corporate owners, because Venezuela owns assets in the United States like Citgo, the energy company, that could be frozen by United States courts. 
 ''He is unlikely to give a fair price, but it won't be outright seizure without compensation,'' Mr. Wizman said. ''He doesn't want to offend everybody simultaneously.''
 Not all investors are as sanguine, and two American companies, Verizon and the AES Corporation of Arlington, Va., suddenly face the potential of hundreds of millions of dollars of losses. AES declined to comment Tuesday.
 The abrupt policy and market jolt in Caracas came amid surging interest in Latin America, Asia and Eastern Europe by investors around the world. Last year, investors in the United States poured $20.3 billion into emerging market funds, up 47 percent from 2005 and accounting for 15 percent of all the money invested in stock-based funds, according to AMG Data Services.
 Investors note that even with the recent troubles in Russia, Venezuela and Thailand, conditions remain favorable in Brazil, Chile, China and India. That may explain why stock markets did not buckle across Asia and the declines in Latin America were fairly modest outside Venezuela. 
 Some investors and business experts expressed optimism that while risks and trepidations were on the rise for business in the region, Mr. Chavez had sometimes stopped short of his pledges in the past.
 Others even hoped he would reverse his intentions, or at least fairly pay for the announced nationalization of CANTV.
 A sharp fall in the shares of Electricidad de Caracas, a utility controlled by AES, however, seemed to reflect fears that it would be nationalized.
 Mr. Chavez's pronouncements prompted expressions of awe and surprise among many of his new cabinet members at their swearing-in ceremony on Monday, suggesting that even they were taken aback. Mr. Chavez also lectured Venezuela's clergy, which has been critical of his plan to refuse a broadcast license to an outspoken television network. He recommended that they read the works of Marx and Lenin, as well as the Bible, ''to learn what socialism means.''
 Mr. Chavez has suddenly moved forward with a revolution that seemed to unfold in slow motion in previous years. He pushed for socialist-inspired economic policies like price controls to slow inflation and the assembly of alliances with Latin American nations with leftist leaders that now include Bolivia, Cuba, Ecuador and Nicaragua.
 Since his re-election to the presidency in December with a 23-point margin, Mr. Chavez has quickly accelerated his efforts to remake Venezuelan society. He has dismissed moderate cabinet ministers and his vice president. He also has begun speaking of the need to reform the nation's public schools to focus more on socialist ideals, and of guiding the Venezuelan consumer away from ''luxurious consumption'' of imported goods.
 Few obstacles stand in the way of Mr. Chavez, making his request for enhanced presidential power, as well as a request to abolish the autonomy of Venezuela's central bank, somewhat perplexing. Mr. Chavez and his economic deputies already effectively control monetary policy, for instance by capping interest rates on loans, though they have to go through the bureaucratic procedure of asking the central bank for its reserves of hard currency if they want them. 
 With 80 billion barrels of conventional crude oil, or about 7 percent of the world's reserves, Venezuela remains the fourth-largest oil supplier of the United States. Much of Mr. Chavez's ambitious project to move Venezuela toward socialism will depend on petroleum revenue, with oil by far the country's leading export.
 It was no small surprise that even as Mr. Chavez announced his startling assortment of economic policies this week, his oil minister, Rafael Ramirez, was calling on OPEC to hold a special meeting to discuss falling oil prices. On Tuesday, oil traded near an 18-month low at $55.64 a barrel in New York, down nearly 9 percent since the start of the year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Most of Latin America and the United States are trying to figure out what Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, will do next after his threat Monday to nationalize his nation's main electricity and telephone companies. (Photo by Gabriel Osorio for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''A Decision With Varied Repercussions''Foreign money has poured into Latin America over the last two years. While other countries in the region took a hit from Hugo Chavez's decision on Monday to nationalize two foreign-owned companies, most of the impact was limited to Venezuela.Graph tracks Mutual fund flows into Latin America since 1992.Stock market performance yesterdayVenezuela -- -18.7%Argentina -- -2.7%Brazil -- -1.9%Mexico -- -1.9%(Sources by AMG Data Services
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); BONDS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICS (71%); LEGISLATION (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) Nationalization of Industry; Politics and Government; Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Electric Light and Power; Telephones and Telecommunications; Foreign Investments; Law and Legislation; United States International Relations

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Simon Romero; Clifford Krauss; Vikas Bajaj; Elisabeth Malkin; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%) Venezuela; Argentina; Latin America; Mexico; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



219 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

U.S. and Iraqi Troops Fight Major Battle With Militants
More than 1,000 American and Iraqi troops, backed by Apache attack helicopters and F-18 fighter jets, battled insurgents in downtown Baghdad in one of the most dramatic operations in the capital since the invasion. A1

Democratic leaders said they intend to hold votes in the House and Senate on President Bush's plan to send more troops to Baghdad, forcing Republicans to take a stand on the proposal. 
 A1

Anger Over Somalia Airstrikes
Somali officials said dozens of people were killed in an American airstrike, most of them Islamist fighters crossing the Kenya-Somalia border. American officials said Al Qaeda members were the targets. A8

Clergy Scandal Grows in Poland
More allegations of former secret-police collaborators among the Catholic clergy spilled onto Poland's front pages, sullying an institution that for decades was considered spotless in its fight against Communism. A6

ETA Sends Mixed Signals
The Basque separatist organization ETA claimed responsibility for the bomb attack on Madrid's main airport terminal 10 days ago which killed two people, even as it said the ''permanent cease-fire'' it announced last March is still in effect. A5

U.S. Restricts Iranian Bank
The United States, moving to raise pressure on Iran, barred American financial institutions from doing any business with a major Iranian bank after concluding it had been involved in illicit weapons programs. A3

Report on Toronto SARS Cases
A commission investigating the SARS outbreak in 2003 reported that poor hospital infection-control procedures led to the epidemic in the Toronto area that killed 44 people. A7

NATIONAL A16-20

Security Bill Advances; Minimum Wage Vote Is Set
House Democrats, delivering on a major campaign promise, used their new majority to push through a bill that would write into law several remaining recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission. A18

As part of their 100-hour legislative blitz, House Democrats are expected to vote today to increase the minimum wage for the first time in a decade, to $7.25 an hour. A18

Bush Drops Judicial Nominees
President Bush said he was dropping plans to nominate three of his choices for the federal appeals courts who have been vigorously opposed by Senate Democrats. A18

California Emissions Plan
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said that he would order California to require its petroleum refiners and gasoline sellers to cut the emissions of heat-trapping gases associated with the production and use of their products by 10 percent. A20

Health Insurance for the Poor
In its drive to provide health insurance to nearly all its residents, Massachusetts has already signed up more than half of the poorest people who are eligible. But experts and politicians agree the bigger challenge will be the working poor who will get a state-subsidized rate. A20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Human Influence on Climate
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration under the Bush administration said unequivocally that the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere was helping warm the climate, placing 2006 as the warmest year for the United States since regular temperature records began in 1895. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New York Plans to Reinvent The Urban Playground
New York City, which invented the municipal playground in America, is on the verge of a bold experiment in the way children play: by developing a playground near the South Street Seaport with trained ''play workers'' on hand to help the children interact with the playground's water, ramps, sand and specially designed objects meant to spur the imagination. A1

Bomb Plotter's Kin Arrested
The parents and sister of a man convicted of conspiring to bomb the Herald Square subway station were detained by federal immigration authorities, who have been seeking to deport them to Pakistan. B1

Open Ears for Mayor's Pitch
Mayor Bloomberg took his perennial pitch for more homeland security money to Congress , but unlike in the past, when Congress was controlled by Republicans, lawmakers seemed poised to listen. B5

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

Two Elected to Hall of Fame
Cal Ripken Jr. and Tony Gwynn were both elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in near-unanimous votes. But their achievement was overshadowed by the voters' rejection of Mark McGwire, a slugger who fell into disrepute because of suspected steroid use. A1

OBITUARIES A21

Jane Bolin
A judge whose appointment by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1939 made her the first black woman in the United States to become a judge, she was 98. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Venezuela Shakes Markets
Investors reacted with alarm in the United States and throughout Latin America as they measured the impact of President Hugo Chavez's plan to nationalize key areas of the economy in Venezuela. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Moving ahead on stem cells; Venezuela Inc.'s hostile takeover; well-grounded ethics reform; a good call in New York.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E10
Weather B8
TV Listings E13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HELICOPTERS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); SCANDALS (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); SARS (69%); EPIDEMICS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); EMISSIONS (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SOMALIA (93%); POLAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KENYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



220 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Troop-Increase Plan Is Expected to Draw Six Guard Brigades to Iraq

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush's plan to increase troop levels in Iraq is expected to require the Army eventually to send as many as six National Guard combat brigades to Iraq, beginning in 2008.
 The increased demand on the National Guard in coming years is a likely byproduct of Mr. Bush's decision, expected to be announced in a speech Wednesday night, to send five active-duty combat brigades, or about 20,000 troops, to Iraq, starting at the end of this month, according to current and former officials.
Two of those brigades are likely to be in place in Iraq by mid-February, with the rest flowing in one a month until May, according to a military official with access to a recent version of the plan. The Bush blueprint also envisions sending two additional Marine battalions to Anbar Province, as well as delaying the departure of 2,200 additional Marines now in the province. 
 In a government-wide effort to expand the American commitment to Iraq, a program to operate Provincial Reconstruction Teams in Iraq will be doubled and renamed as Provincial Support Teams, a senior administration official said Tuesday. Currently, the United States operates seven of these teams and allies operate three; the Bush plan will call for adding nine more. They will be staffed by personnel from across the government -- the Departments of State, Defense, Agriculture and Justice -- to help neighborhoods manage economic and political development, the official said.
 It remains unclear whether Mr. Bush will discuss the heightened future demand on the National Guard during his much-anticipated address, but identifying the additional units for possible deployment is likely to begin in the days and weeks after he delivers the speech. That process would raise the political stakes for Mr. Bush, since it would highlight the increased contribution his plan would require from reserve units.
 The full extent of the National Guard role in future years will also depend on whether conditions in Iraq improve enough to permit significant overall troop reductions. Of the 15 combat brigades now in Iraq, only one is from the Guard. Depending on how it is organized, an Army brigade typically has between 3,500 and 5,000 troops, and a battalion about 1,200.
 National Guard combat units that have already gone to Iraq and returned may have to be sent back for second tours in order to relieve some of the stress on the active duty Army, Pentagon officials said Tuesday. Such a move would most likely require revising a Pentagon policy that has limited mobilization of Guard units to 24 months every five years, officials said.
 National Guard officials said Tuesday that they had not been notified that Mr. Bush would require a greater combat role for the Guard beginning next year. Guard officials have spent the last several months fighting attempts by some Army officials to have the 24-month deployment limit loosened.
 But several Guard officials said Tuesday they would not be surprised to see Mr. Bush make changes in mobilization time limits so that Guard units would be eligible for duty in Iraq sooner.
 Maj. Gen. Roger Lemke, the head of Nebraska National Guard and of the association that represents state Guard officials, said in an interview that many guard units were short of equipment and would need to be re-equipped to be useful in Iraq. He also said the Guard would like to shorten the predeployment training in the United States, and do more of it in the units' home states to lessen the burden on their soldiers, who must leave civilian jobs to serve.
 The first active-duty unit that is likely to move to Baghdad would be a brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division now in Kuwait, Pentagon officials said Tuesday. The elite light infantry of the brigade is especially useful in urban operations.
 Should Mr. Bush want other brigades to accelerate their arrival in Iraq, he then would look to a brigade of the Third Infantry Division, from Fort Stewart, Ga., that is already set to head for Iraq later this month but whose departure could be pushed up. The next brigade in line for Iraq is one from the First Infantry Division at Fort Hood, Tex., military officials said.
 Pentagon and military officials said Tuesday that large and continued deployments in Iraq would put particular strain on those performing certain military tasks in the National Guard and Reserve, in particular military police, engineers, civil affairs, and transportation and trucking units. But efforts are under way to fill the need through volunteers from within the Guard and Reserve before resorting to forced remobilizations.
 A range of senior Army officials have said since the autumn that the Iraq mission could not be sustained without fuller access to the reserves.
 The question of how best to manage them presents the Bush administration with a political conundrum: how to balance the pressing need for troops in the field against promises to limit overseas deployments for the Guard.
 While the National Guard's goal is to guarantee five years at home between foreign deployments, it has been sending units every three to four years, according to Guard officials. The Guard and Reserve were used most extensively in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2004, and have regularly supplied brigades throughout the fighting.
 Also presenting a problem is that many Guard members have been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan as individuals, and not with their full units, and in that process have come close to fulfilling their 24 months under the president's current mobilization order.
 In what officers call ''Swiss cheese units,'' some military units have been hollowed out by members who could be off-limits for overseas duty, restricting the ability to send the entire team, unless the restrictions are reinterpreted or erased so that these individual members, who have already deployed, could be sent overseas again with their entire units.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Armored vehicles were loaded on rail cars in Fort Stewart, Ga., to travel to Iraq with a brigade of the Third Infantry Division later this month. (Photo by Stephen Morton/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) David S Cloud; Thom Shanker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Anbar Province (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



221 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Chooses United for Nonstop Flights to China

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
The United States government has tentatively selected United Airlines to provide new nonstop service to China, federal regulators and the airline said Tuesday. 
 The Transportation Department awarded United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, daily service between Dulles International Airport near Washington and Beijing Capital International Airport.
The service will begin March 25 if the agency's decision becomes final.
 In winning the route, UAL beat out applications from American Airlines, Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines, which all wanted to bolster their Pacific routes.
 The government will wait 14 days for objections; the Transportation Department then has 7 days to answer any that are received.
 After that, the department will review the comments and issue a final decision.
 American, Continental and Northwest each expressed disappointment that their applications were not accepted. But none indicated plans to object to the decision formally.
 ''The record showed that Northwest's proposal would have benefited the most passengers, served the most U.S. cities, and provided the quickest and most efficient routings to China,'' said a Northwest spokesman, Bill Mellon, in an e-mailed statement.
 Northwest had proposed flying from Detroit to Shanghai. Mr. Mellon said the carrier hoped to renew its application if other routes become available.
 United States carriers, battered by low-cost competition at home, have sought out growth on lucrative international routes, and China's economic expansion presents a strong opportunity for airlines with service there.
 The United States keeps a tight rein on rights to fly to China, so competition for the routes among airlines is stiff.
 Shares of UAL were up 4 cents, at $46.84.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); AIR SERVICE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Airlines and Airplanes; Dulles International Airport (Washington, DC); Beijing Capital Airport (China); Airports

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (95%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); BEIJING CAPITAL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT CO LTD (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Transportation Department (US); United Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (95%); BK (NYSE) (91%); 0694 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS488119 OTHER AIRPORT OPERATIONS (58%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%) Washington (DC); Beijing (China); China

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



222 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Drops for Third Consecutive Month

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
American companies sold more goods like airplanes, cars and precious metals overseas in November, helping to narrow the trade deficit for a third consecutive month. 
 Despite the improvement, the United States is still on track to end 2006 with a record trade imbalance, eclipsing the $716.7 billion deficit in 2005.
The Census Bureau reported yesterday that the trade deficit -- the amount by which the value of America's imports of goods and services exceeded the value of its exports -- fell to $58.2 billion in November, the smallest it has been since July 2005. In October, the deficit was $58.8 billion. 
 Yesterday's figures surprised many economists, most of whom expected the deficit to widen. Through November, the cumulative deficit for 2006 was $701.6 billion, well within reach of the previous record.
 But some economists expect the trade outlook to improve this year as a weaker dollar combined with a slower domestic economy and stronger growth overseas help narrow the disparity between imports and exports.
 ''The factors that are causing the improvement are really in the case of exports and the strengths of the economies abroad,'' said Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist with the Bank of America. ''Japan continues to grow moderately, and emerging Asia is growing at a good clip, led by China. Then Europe also continues to at least outperform expectations. When you put all of that together, that's a boost to U.S. exports.''
 In November, exports grew to $124.8 billion, from $123.7 billion in October. The increase was fairly broad-based. Exports of consumer goods like jewelry and sporting goods rose, as did exports of heavy duty goods like parts for commercial aircraft.
 At the same time, imports are slowing. American businesses imported $183 billion worth of goods and services in November, up $500 million from October. That brought the three-month moving average for imports down to $184.3 billion, the lowest level since June.
 The gap narrowed in November in part because Americans bought fewer goods from China, one of the nation's main trading partners. The net deficit with China fell to $22.9 billion in November, down from $24.4 billion in October. Also, the trade gap shrank because of the third monthly decline in petroleum imports, a factor that economists expect to help improve the trade gap this year if oil prices continue falling.
 The Chinese government reported its full-year trade figures yesterday as well, posting a record surplus of $177.5 billion with the world as a whole in 2006. China's exports, and its surplus, continue to grow rapidly; the 2006 surplus was 75 percent greater than 2005's. Imbalanced trade with China has become an issue straining relations with the United States. 
 Top American officials, including the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, traveled to China last month to press for a shift in the country's trade and currency policies. China accounts for a larger portion of the deficit than any other country.
 A reason that Washington says that trade with China remains one-sided is the exchange rate. China keeps its currency, the yuan, loosely pegged to the dollar and the euro at a level that many economists say is undervalued, making its exports affordable and imported goods more expensive. 
 But economists expect Chinese imports to have less appeal in the United States as a slowing housing market damps consumer appetites.
 ''I imagine as U.S. domestic demand growth slows,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist with Capital Economics, ''the wider trade deficit with China will probably continue to grow, but probably at a slower pace.''
 Also yesterday, the Commerce Department reported that inventories at American wholesalers accumulated in November at the fastest pace in three months, a sign that imports could slow further. 

Surplus Widens in Canada
 OTTAWA, Jan. 10 (Bloomberg News) -- Canada's trade surplus widened more than expected in November to the largest since March, as exports of cars and energy products rebounded.
 The surplus widened to 4.67 billion Canadian dollars ($3.97 billion), from a revised 3.76 billion Canadian dollars in October, Statistics Canada said. Exports rose 2.8 percent, to 38.1 billion Canadian dollars ($32.4 billion).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shipping containers at a port in Shanghai. The United States trade gap narrowed in November in part because Americans bought fewer goods from China than they did in October. (Photo by Aly Song/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DOLLAR (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CENSUS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%) International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (52%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



223 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: China Says Its Trade Surplus in 2006 Climbed to a Record

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
China's trade surplus soared to a record $177.47 billion last year as exports continued to rise briskly, China's customs administration announced Wednesday night.
 China's widening trade surplus -- it was $102 billion in 2005 -- has been a slowly festering political issue with the United States. Democrats have promised to give it greater attention this year after taking control of Congress in the November elections. 
The official New China News Agency said the Ministry of Commerce had previously expected the country's trade surplus to be $168 billion.
 Trade data released Wednesday was only a snapshot of total Chinese trade last year, and included few detailed breakdowns by country or product. Chinese officials had previously released figures showing that their country's trade surplus with the United States for the first 11 months of last year was nearly equal to China's entire trade surplus with all other countries, and there has been no sign that this changed in December.
 But China's trade surplus narrowed slightly in December, to $21 billion, after hitting $22.9 billion in November and $23.83 billion in October. Ben Simpfendorfer, a currency strategist at the Royal Bank of Scotland, said China's trade surplus appeared to be leveling off at a very high plateau.
 Compared with economists' expectations, he said, the trade surplus in December ''looks just a touch bigger, but not remarkably so.''
 China's surplus in December 2005 had been $11.02 billion, which was China's third-largest monthly surplus ever at the time but has now been exceeded in 9 out of 12 months in 2006.
 China's trade surpluses in December sometimes vary widely, however, and many Western experts treat them with caution. 
 Chinese statisticians have long tended to make a lot of adjustments to December figures in many categories, not just trade, so that full-year figures either reflect more clearly the statisticians' sense of actual economic performance or correspond more closely to government leaders' economic targets.
 Among the handful of categories for which China did release full-year figures, the most eye-catching was steel. Chinese steel exports rose 110 percent last year, the government said.
 Steel has been at the center of international trade disputes for decades, and some American steel companies and unions are now encouraging the United States government to take action against Chinese steel exports.
 Franklin Lavin, the undersecretary of commerce for international trade, said in a speech in Hong Kong on Dec. 8 that China should cut subsidies for its steel industry to reduce the possibility of facing legal action.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An iron and steel mill in Hefei, China. Chinese steel exports rose 110 percent last year, and some United States steel companies and unions have been calling for Washington to take action. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CURRENCIES (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%) International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (68%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (68%); RBS (LSE) (68%); RBS (AMS) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (59%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



224 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: House, by a Wide Margin, Backs Minimum-Wage Rise 

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved a $2.10-an-hour increase in the federal minimum wage on Wednesday, in a vote that Democrats hailed as overdue and a symbol of new leadership on Capitol Hill.
 The Democrats, who campaigned against Republicans last year for repeatedly allowing Congressional pay raises when they were in the majority and yet refusing for almost a decade to raise the wage floor from $5.15, said the new, three-step increase for hard-pressed employees would be in sharp contrast to Republican tax cuts approved for the affluent.
 ''This is the day for the people who empty the bedpans, change the bed linens, sweep the floors and do the hardest work of America,'' Representative Robert E. Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, said before the 315-to-116 vote. 
 Several Republicans spoke against the legislation, a centerpiece of the House Democrats' 100-hour domestic legislative agenda, on the ground that it would reduce the number of available jobs and so deny opportunities to those trying to enter the work force. But 82 Republicans joined all 233 Democrats in supporting the bill, unwilling to cast a vote that could have made them appear unsympathetic to Americans trying to get by on a minimum wage that has not been raised since September 1997.
 ''Let's not trample on the market, but recognize that nine years is long enough,'' said Representative Zach Wamp, Republican of Tennessee.
 The measure would increase the minimum wage to $5.85 an hour 60 days after being signed into law, to $6.55 one year after that, and to $7.25 after an additional year. For a minimum-wage employee working full time, $7.25 would mean about $4,000 a year more than the current floor.
 But the House vote is far from the final word. The legislation now goes to the Senate, where members of both parties have indicated that they intend to tie it to tax breaks for small businesses, to help offset any new costs arising from the wage increase. Linking the two is seen by many as a prerequisite to rounding up the 60 votes needed to overcome any filibuster and open the door to negotiations between the House and the Senate over a final bill. President Bush has indicated that he would sign a bill providing for a wage increase with related tax breaks.
 ''The 110th Congress is going to do the right thing and finally deliver a minimum-wage increase,'' the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said Wednesday. ''And at the same time, we should help keep jobs available to America's workers by helping small businesses absorb this wage hike.''
 In recent years, Republicans repeatedly rebuffed Democratic proposals to raise the minimum, arguing that it could slow the economy. Under pressure from Republicans in swing districts, the leadership last year did allow a vote on an increase, but tied it to a repeal of the estate tax. Democrats, backed by organized labor and other interests, blocked that proposal in the Senate.
 During the fall campaign, Democrats made inaction on the minimum wage a mainstay of their arguments against Republican control. Breaking an informal agreement with Republicans not to trade partisan charges over Congressional pay, they contrasted the stalled minimum-wage rate and lawmakers' regular cost-of-living increases. Trying to insulate themselves, the Republicans agreed late last year that Congress would get no more pay raises until a minimum-wage increase was approved.
 On Wednesday, Republicans criticized Democrats for blocking any efforts to change the House measure by including small-business tax breaks. 
 ''It is troubling that this bill gives no thought to softening the impact on our engines of new job growth,'' said Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California.
 But Democrats were determined to raise the wage floor with no strings attached.
 ''Can't you just give these workers an increase and be done with it?'' Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and the new chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, asked his colleagues.
 Despite their longstanding opposition, two mainstays of the Washington business lobby -- the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business -- made only a perfunctory effort to influence the House vote, sending members letters of opposition but otherwise conceding the issue.
 ''It was a foregone conclusion,'' said Michael J. Donohue, a spokesman for the federation, which represents small businesses. ''Our lobbyists assessed that this wasn't the best way to spend their energy.''
 The vote was celebrated by organized labor, which is seeing its influence in Congress enhanced with the return of a Democratic majority. But John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., joined with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a longtime advocate of the wage increase, in urging the Senate to pass the measure without offsetting benefits for businesses.
 ''Business has enjoyed hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts since Bush took office,'' Mr. Sweeney said in a statement, ''while health care, secure retirements and the minimum wage have all been on government's back burner.''
 On the House floor, meanwhile, Speaker Nancy Pelosi beamed after the final vote as she brought down her gavel and Democrats cheered the lopsided margin.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gina Walter, left, a minimum-wage worker from Columbus, Ohio, with a Democratic congresswoman from her home state, Betty Sutton, during the debate. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%) Labor; Law and Legislation; Minimum Wage; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (59%); BETTY SUTTON (58%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (58%); ZACH WAMP (58%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



225 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: For $7.93 an Hour, It's Worth A Trip Across the State Line

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: LIBERTY LAKE, Wash., Jan. 9 

 BODY:
Just eight miles separate this town on the Washington side of the state border from Post Falls on the Idaho side. But the towns are nearly $3 an hour apart in the required minimum wage. Washington pays the highest in the nation, just under $8 an hour, and Idaho has among the lowest, matching 21 states that have not raised the hourly wage beyond the federal minimum of $5.15.
 Nearly a decade ago, when voters in Washington approved a measure that would give the state's lowest-paid workers a raise nearly every year, many business leaders predicted that small towns on this side of the state line would suffer.
But instead of shriveling up, small-business owners in Washington say they have prospered far beyond their expectations. In fact, as a significant increase in the national minimum wage heads toward law, businesses here at the dividing line between two economies -- a real-life laboratory for the debate -- have found that raising prices to compensate for higher wages does not necessarily lead to losses in jobs and profits. 
 Idaho teenagers cross the state line to work in fast-food restaurants in Washington, where the minimum wage is 54 percent higher. That has forced businesses in Idaho to raise their wages to compete. 
 Business owners say they have had to increase prices somewhat to keep up. But both states are among the nation's leaders in the growth of jobs and personal income, suggesting that an increase in the minimum wage has not hurt the overall economy. 
 ''We're paying the highest wage we've ever had to pay, and our business is still up more than 11 percent over last year,'' said Tom Singleton, who manages a Papa Murphy's takeout pizza store here, with 13 employees. 
 His store is flooded with job applicants from Idaho, Mr. Singleton said. Like other business managers in Washington, he said he had less turnover because the jobs paid more.
 By contrast, an Idaho restaurant owner, Rob Elder, said he paid more than the minimum wage because he could not find anyone to work for the Idaho minimum at his Post Falls restaurant, the Hot Rod Cafe. 
 ''At $5.15 an hour, I get zero applicants -- or maybe a guy with one leg who wouldn't pass a drug test and wouldn't show up on Saturday night because he wants to get drunk with his buddies,'' Mr. Elder said. 
 For years, economists have debated the effect that raising the minimum wage would have on business. While the federal minimum wage has not gone up for 10 years, 29 states have raised their wage beyond the federal minimum.
 These increases, according to critics like Brendan Flanagan of the National Restaurant Association, are a burden on the small, mostly family-run businesses in fast food and agriculture that employ workers at the lowest end of the pay scale. 
 ''We see the political momentum for this,'' said Mr. Flanagan, a vice president at the association, ''but we cannot ignore what our members are telling us, which is that it will lead to job losses.''
 But the state's major business lobby, the Association of Washington Business, is no longer fighting the minimum-wage law, which is adjusted every year in line with the consumer price index. 
 ''You don't see us screaming out loud about this,'' said Don Brunell, president of the trade group, which represents 6,300 members.
 ''It's almost a no-brainer,'' Mr. Brunell said, that the federal minimum should go higher. Association officials say they would like to see some flexibility for rural and small-town businesses, however.
 Washington's robust economy, which added nearly 90,000 jobs last year, is proof that even with the country's highest minimum wage, ''this is a great place to do business,'' Mr. Brunell said. 
 During a recession five years ago, the same group had argued that Washington's high minimum wage law would send businesses fleeing to Idaho. The group sent out a news release with a criticism of the law from John Fazzari, who owns a family-run pizza business in Clarkston, Wash., just minutes from the Idaho town of Lewiston. 
 But now Mr. Fazzari says business has never been better, and he has no desire to move to Idaho. 
 ''To tell you the truth, my business is fantastic,'' he said in an interview. ''I've never done as much business in my life.''
 Mr. Fazzari employs 42 people at his pizza parlor. New workers make the Washington minimum, $7.93 an hour, but veteran employees make more. To compensate for the required annual increase in the minimum wage, Mr. Fazzari said he raises prices slightly. But he said most customers barely notice. 
 He sells more pizza, he said, because he has a better product, and because his customers are loyal. 
 ''If you look 10 years down the road, we will probably have no minimum wage jobs on this side of the border, and lots of higher-income jobs,'' Mr. Fazzari said.
 Job figures from both states tend to support his point. While Idaho leads the nation in new job growth, it has a far higher percentage of minimum-wage jobs than Washington. Minimum-wage positions make up just 2.4 percent of the jobs in Washington, while about 13 percent of the jobs in Idaho pay at or less than the proposed federal minimum wage, according to a study done for the state last year.
 Part of the difference could be accounted for by a lower cost of living in Idaho and the higher percentage of technology, manufacturing and government jobs in Washington, economists say. Still, it is hard to find a teenager in Idaho who lives anywhere near Washington who is willing to work for $5.15 an hour. 
 ''Are you kidding? There are so many jobs nearby that pay way more than minimum wage,'' said Jennifer Stadtfeldt, who is 17 and lives in Coeur d'Alene, which is just a few minutes from Washington. She pointed out that Taco Bell, McDonald's and other fast-food outlets in her town were posting signs trying to entice entry-level workers with a starting pay of $7 an hour.
 The House today passed a bill increasing the minimum wage, and about 13 million workers would see a pay raise if the Senate and President Bush approve it. Mr. Bush has said he would approve the wage increase so long as concerns of small-business owners were taken into account; the Senate has not yet taken up the bill. 
 Several studies have concluded that modest changes in the minimum wage have little effect on employment. A study two months ago by an economist at Washington State University seemed to back the experience of Clarkston and other border towns in Washington. The economist, David Holland, said job loss was minimal when higher wages were forced on all businesses. About 97 percent of all minimum-wage workers were better off when wages went up, he wrote.
 But other business groups argue that an increase would hurt consumers and workers at the low end. 
 In a survey released on the eve of the November elections -- in which voters in six states considered raising their minimum wages -- the National Restaurant Association said restaurants expected to raise their prices and eliminate some jobs if the voters approved the measures. The initiatives all passed. 
 Here on this border, business owners have found small ways to raise their prices, and customers say they have barely noticed. 
 ''We used to have a coupon, $3 off on any family-size pizza, and we changed that to $2 off,'' said Mr. Singleton, of Papa Murphy's. ''I haven't heard a single complaint.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STARTING OUT AT ALMOST $8 -- Tom Singleton is the manager at Papa Murphy's, a takeout pizza store in nearby Liberty Lake, Wash., where the pay for new workers is $7.93 but where veteran employees can make more.
 $5.75 PLUS TIPS -- Jose Caro waits tables at La Cabana Mexican Restaurant in Post Falls, Idaho, a state with one of the lowest minimum wages in the country. His $5.75 base wage is 60 cents more than the Idaho minimum. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. A28)Map of Washington and Idaho highlighting Liberty Lake and Post Falls, respectively: Liberty Lake and Post Falls are divided by more than the state line. (pg. A28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (87%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); APPROVALS (71%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); DRUG TESTING (70%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Hiring and Promotion; Small Business; Labor; Labor

PERSON: Timothy Egan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (State); Idaho; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



226 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain as Investors Shrug Off Declining Oil Prices

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors fretted over falling oil prices, but Wall Street still managed a modest gain yesterday after upbeat news from Alcoa and Apple.
 The market began the session with fresh concern that oil's decline would hurt profits in the energy sector and scare off money from sources like hedge funds that have helped push stocks higher in recent months. Adding to that sense was a profit warning from Chevron. 
But investors eventually turned their attention to bullish news, like US Airways Group's raising of its bid for Delta Air Lines by 20 percent, to $10.2 billion. They were also pleased by Apple's long-awaited announcement of plans to offer a mobile phone, as well as by a solid profit report from Alcoa.
 ''There are good underlying economic fundamentals. The buyers are starting to get a little more courageous in coming off the sidelines,'' said Al Goldman, chief market strategist with A. G. Edwards & Sons. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.56, or 0.21 percent, to 12,442.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.74, or 0.19 percent, to 1,414.85, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 15.50, or 0.63 percent, to 2,459.33.
 Bonds fell on the slide in oil prices and a report that the United States trade deficit narrowed in November. Both trends were seen as making a rise in interest rates more likely. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 99 17/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.68 percent, from 4.65 percent.
 Yesterday's trading resembled Monday's, in which stocks were lower for much of the session before moving higher near the close. Light crude was down $1.62, at $54.02 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have been hurt as warm temperatures have weakened demand in large parts of the United States and Europe. 
 Oil fell further after weekly domestic inventory data from the Energy Department showed a drop of 5 million barrels of crude and an increase of 5.4 million barrels of distillates like home heating oil.
 The aluminum producer Alcoa, one of 30 stocks that make up the Dow industrials, advanced $1.71, or 6 percent, to $30.23, after reporting late Tuesday that its fourth-quarter profit jumped 60 percent.
 Shares of Compania Anonima Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela, or CANTV, rebounded somewhat after a Venezuelan official said the government would compensate companies whose assets could be seized under a plan by President Hugo Chavez to nationalize CANTV as well as electrical companies and several oil projects. The company's American depositary receipts rose $1.80, or 14.8 percent, to $14.

Stake in Indian Exchange
By Bloomberg News
 The NYSE Group and the Goldman Sachs Group led a group of investors that agreed to buy 20 percent in the National Stock Exchange of India, the country's largest. 
 The NYSE Group will pay $115 million for 5 percent of the exchange, giving it a value of $2.3 billion. Goldman, General Atlantic and Softbank Asian Infrastructure Fund will also purchase 5 percent stakes, the exchange said. The price of the other stakes was not disclosed. .


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); HEATING OIL (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PROFIT WARNINGS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRLINES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Interest Rates; Government Bonds

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); APPLE INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CA NACIONAL TELEFONOS DE VENEZUELA (82%); ALCOA INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); NYSE GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GS (NYSE) (84%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



227 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Sees China, and the Chinese, in a Chevrolet

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: YANTAI, China 

 BODY:
Yang Luzhou, who lives here in an industrial town facing North Korea across the bay, is about as far as can be from Americana. 
 He is even farther from John Mellencamp's ''Our Country,'' the flag-waving soundtrack for Chevrolet's latest marketing campaign in the United States.
But just the other day, the classic ''Bear Went Over the Mountain'' and the Confederate anthem ''Dixie'' wafted through the factory while he fiddled with a Chevrolet Aveo car door on a General Motors production line. 
 ''I never thought I'd be building Chevrolet products,'' he said. ''I never heard of the Chevrolet brand when I was growing up.'' 
 G.M. is hoping to change that for future generations of Chinese. It is counting on Mr. Yang, 27, and his 2,300 fellow assembly line workers here to help produce 200,000 cars this year as part of a giant bet to turn the Chevrolet brand into a household name in China. 
 As the world's top auto executives gather in Detroit for the annual auto show, one of the biggest questions is how General Motors will fare this year when Toyota may pass it to become the world's largest automaker. The answer will depend to a considerable extent on how G.M. performs in China, its second-largest market after the United States. 
 The modern plant here is expected to double production this year. G.M. is also expanding at a second factory in southeastern China that makes tiny Chevrolet Spark sedans. And Chevrolet dealerships, with gleaming windows and cushy chairs, 20-foot ceilings and advanced repair bays, are popping up along major avenues across China.
 To compensate for its troubles at home, G.M. is in a big hurry here. But building a brand that will capture car buyers in a vast developing country, going from Middle America to Middle China, is a lot harder than building one at home. 
 For one, G.M. in China isn't exactly G.M. Limited by Beijing to no more than 50 percent ownership of any auto assembly operation, it relies on two rival joint ventures to manufacture Chevrolets in China.
 G.M. is heavily dependent in the Chinese market on a different brand, Buick, the first brand it re-introduced here as the country moved from rigid communism to a hybrid form of rough-and-ready capitalism. Moreover, G.M. is in the midst of a corporate reorganization campaign just as it is starting to face in China, as at home, the same daunting competition from Toyota.
 G.M. now produces the Chevrolet Sail compact sedan, the slightly larger Chevrolet Aveo compact sedan and hatchback, and the considerably larger Chevrolet Epica midsize car at a joint venture here with the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, known by its initials S.A.I.C. 
 But the tiny Chevrolet Spark subcompact comes from a separate joint venture with S.A.I.C. and the Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Company, and is manufactured at Wuling's factory in Liuzhou in southeastern China.
 The mix in makers has created a bit of a mishmash in branding. At the Beijing auto show in November, the Sail, Aveo and Epica were positioned near Buicks, Cadillacs and other G.M. brands, attended by dapper young men in matching gray slacks, double-breasted blue blazers, yellow and blue ties with perfect Windsor knots and lapel pins with tiny Chevrolet ''bow tie'' logos.
 But the three Chevrolet Sparks in a Wuling display in a separate hall were draped with leggy young women in skimpy red-and-white miniskirts and knee-high white leather boots with stiletto heels.
 Kevin E. Wale, the president of G.M.'s China operations, acknowledged in an interview that forcing the two joint ventures to work together on Chevrolet's image will take some work.
 ''There's no question we need to make sure the brands don't diverge,'' he said.
 Buicks were a symbol of luxury in China in the 1930s, when they accounted for a sixth of the cars on Chinese roads. But sales halted after the Communists won the country's civil war in 1949, and did not resume in earnest until G.M. opened a Buick factory in Shanghai in 1998. State-owned corporations buy Buick Regal sedans to chauffeur their executives, but a rising middle class has created a much larger market in the last five years for compact and subcompact cars.
 Buick began imperiling its luxury image by introducing smaller and smaller cars, including a compact Buick Sail sedan, to keep up. ''We had Buick covering the whole market and trying to stretch probably too low,'' said Nick Reilly, the G.M. group vice president who runs the company's Asia-Pacific operations.
 G.M. has now rebranded the compact as the Chevrolet Sail. But Buick still sells its own compact car, the Excelle, and a bare-bones Excelle sells for less than a fully loaded Sail.
 ''There is some overlap, but the reality is we're positioning Chevrolet to be more affordable fun,'' said Steve Betz, the Chevrolet brand director in China.
 Another potential problem is that for hundreds of millions of Chinese, insulated for decades from the global market, the Chevrolet brand has no clear image. Even Mr. Yang at the factory here, who has just bought himself a Chevrolet Sail, was unsure how to define the brand, and whether it is basically American or Chinese.
 ''I feel it's a bit Chinese,'' he said.
 Still, G.M. seems to be having some success. Shen Lei, a 27-year-old machinery salesman, walked into a Chevrolet dealership in Shanghai on a recent afternoon and paid $9,700 for a gray Chevrolet Sail with antilock brakes, dual front air bags and many other features.
 ''It's much more economical than a Buick,'' he said. 
 Complicating G.M.'s big push in China is a fundamental change in how the company does business. G.M. is trying to cut costs and improve quality by centralizing more of its design, engineering and purchasing activities, mainly in Detroit, while erasing many of the bureaucratic differences that have long separated its operations in countries across the globe.
 But G.M.'s China division became a juggernaut in part because it was practically a separate fief until 2005. The division was known for its quick decision-making and independence while it was under Philip F. Murtaugh, who helped negotiate the agreement that allowed G.M. to open its factory in Shanghai in 1998. He then ran the company as it swiftly trounced Toyota, Honda, Nissan, DaimlerChrysler and Ford and nearly caught Volkswagen, the longtime market leader.
 Like Carlos Ghosn, who became a celebrity in Japan by rescuing Nissan in the late 1990s before moving on to run Renault as well, Mr. Murtaugh became something akin to a rock star in the Chinese media.
 He resigned from G.M. in March 2005, though, when forced to give up some of his control over the Chinese operation. After a year off, he has now joined S.A.I.C. as an executive vice president overseeing its effort to build its own brand of cars for the Chinese market -- in competition with G.M., its joint venture partner.
 ''Phil Murtaugh and the team did a great job of moving faster than we would normally do,'' Mr. Wale said.
 But integrating G.M.'s China operations has produced some dividends, by encouraging managers here to draw on expertise elsewhere in the automaker, company executives said.
 ''We just put up our hand and say, 'I need someone who can manage a supply chain,' '' Mr. Wale said. ''The best practices transfer more quickly.''
 The Aveo manufactured here was engineered partly by G.M.'s 51 percent-owned Daewoo subsidiary in South Korea and partly by a G.M. center in Shanghai. The Aveos sold in the United States are assembled in South Korea while the Aveos built by Mr. Yang and his co-workers are for sale only in China, where the overall auto market grew 36 percent in the first 11 months of 2006 compared with the same period in 2005. 
 For all G.M.'s internal difficulties, though, its biggest challenge here, as in the United States, is Toyota. The Japanese automaker has had a narrower product range than G.M. in China until now. But as Toyota expands in new areas, like its current move to step up sales of Camry midsize sedans, it is starting to catch up with G.M. and Volkswagen.
 Industry analysts predict that Volkswagen will continue to struggle but that G.M., while perhaps losing some market share, should remain a big, successful player in the Chinese market.
 ''Toyota will be No. 1 in the China market by 2010, if not sooner,'' said Michael Dunne, the president of Automotive Resources Asia, a consulting firm recently purchased by J. D. Power and Associates.
 Despite the stiffer competition, the mood among G.M. workers and managers alike in China is very upbeat. That stands in contrast to the company's many worries in the United States, and it harks back to a different era in Detroit, when ''See the U.S.A. in your Chevrolet'' once ruled the air waves.
 ''Everyone wants a piece of China,'' Mr. Betz said. ''Every manufacturer wants to be here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At G.M.'s plant in Yantai, China, workers take a break from assembling Chevrolet Sail sedans. The plant is expected to double output this year. (Photo by Lou Linwei for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Yang Luzhou on the assembly line at G.M.'s plant in Yantai, China. Growing up, he had never heard of Chevrolet cars. Now he builds them. (Photo by Lou Linwei for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); BRANDING (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%) Automobiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Consumer Behavior; Foreign Investments ; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Buick Division of General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%) SHANDONG, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%) China; Yantai (China)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



228 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Begins New Term Vowing Socialism 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez was sworn in to a new six-year term at a ceremony here on Wednesday in which he described Jesus as ''the greatest socialist in history'' and pledged to speed Venezuela's metamorphosis into a Socialist country.
 ''Fatherland! Socialism or death, I swear it!'' Mr. Chavez yelled as he was sworn in and given the presidential sash and a golden key to the tomb where the remains of Simon Bolivar, the South American liberator, are interred. 
 In his speech, the president defended his decision this week to nationalize companies in the telecommunications and electricity industries and promised to seek greater control over natural gas projects. He also renewed his request to Congress for decree powers, saying a ''revolutionary law of laws'' would allow him to hasten the construction of Socialism.
 Since his re-election last month, Mr. Chavez has moved swiftly to group his varied supporters into a single Socialist party. In addition to his nationalization campaign, he has called for the end of the central bank's independence from politics and the rewriting of the commercial code.
 Headlines in the afternoon newspapers here reflected continuing polarization over his ideas. ''Socialism Has Arrived,'' proclaimed El Mundo, which, like most Venezuelan newspapers is friendly to Mr. Chavez's government. Tal Cual, a small opposition paper, titled its main editorial ''The Monarch.''
 Teodoro Petkoff, editor of Tal Cual, said Mr. Chavez's ''21st-century Socialism'' had exhibited the same autocratic characteristics of Socialist movements of the 20th century.
 Others pointed to the president's political instincts as an explanation for his sharp ideological turn.
 Fernando Coronil, an authority on Venezuelan history at the University of Michigan, said Mr. Chavez was acutely aware of his supporters' high expectations of change. His effort to redefine the ideological and organization basis of his government, from the creation of a single party to the concentration of power in the presidency, are a response to that reading of popular sentiment, Mr. Coronil said.
 ''People voted for Chavez but didn't give him a blank check,'' he said. ''Now he has to pay back.''
 In his speech on Wednesday, Mr. Chavez, who hinted at the possibility of seeking another term once this one ends in 2012, seemed to evoke Fidel Castro's leftward ideological evolution in the years after taking power in Cuba in 1959. Mr. Chavez, who has forged a tight economic alliance with Cuba, peppered his speech with references to the works of two Italian Marxist theorists, Antonio Gramsci and Antonio Negri.
 He weaved in quotations from Napoleon and Trotsky, saying Trotsky had the right idea when he said, ''The revolution never ends.'' He also quoted liberally from the writings of Bolivar and the Bible.
 He railed against his domestic political opponents and dissidents in the Roman Catholic Church, singling out Archbishop Roberto Luckert of Coro, who recently criticized the president's decision not to renew the broadcast license of RCTV, one of Venezuela's oldest television stations. 
 ''Monsignor Luckert is going to wait for me in hell,'' he said.
 After his speech, Mr. Chavez traveled to Managua to attend a similar ceremony for Daniel Ortega, the former Sandinista guerrilla leader elected president of Nicaragua. Venezuela is preparing to sign a farreaching economic assistance agreement with Nicaragua.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez greeted supporters in Caracas yesterday on his way to be inaugurated for a third term. (Photo by Leslie Mazoch/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); POLITICS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); CHURCH & STATE (74%); COMMERCIAL LAW (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Freedom and Human Rights; Telephones and Telecommunications; Electric Light and Power; Nationalization of Industry ; Gas (Fuel); Politics and Government; Elections; Church-State Relations

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (53%) Simon Romero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); CUBA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



229 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: MILITARY ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Bid to Secure Baghdad Relies On Troops and Iraqi Leaders 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
With his new plan to secure Iraq, President Bush is in effect betting that Iraqi leaders are committed to building a multisectarian state, and his strategy will stand or fall on that assumption. 
 The plan differs in several respects from the faltering effort to bring stability to Baghdad that began last summer. It calls for a much larger American force. There are to be no havens for renegade militias. And, importantly, Iraqi security forces throughout the city are to be put under the direct control of a new Iraqi commander -- and backed by American Army battalions.
But the new plan depends on the good intentions and competence of a Shiite-dominated Iraqi government that has not demonstrated an abundant supply of either. 
 ''Everybody raises a question about the intentions and capability of this government,'' a senior American official said, referring to the Iraqi government. ''Is this a government that really is a unity government or is it in fact pursuing, either explicitly or implicitly, a Shia hegemony agenda?'' 
 It was just in August that the Bush administration hailed the advent of ''Operation Together Forward II,'' a plan that was intended to provide security to Baghdad's violence-ridden neighborhoods but did not stop the rise in sectarian violence. 
 Based on the assumption that the establishment of security in Baghdad was a bedrock condition for the broader push to stabilize the country, that plan called for American and Iraqi forces to clear contested neighborhoods in the capital, which would then be held with Iraqi police officers. That was to be followed to an energetic effort to fix sewage lines and generally rebuild neighborhoods, an effort intended to win public support and help remedy Iraq's chronically high unemployment. 
 That plan was backed by only modest resources from the start.
 With an increase of only 7,000 American troops, the number of Americans taking part in the operation was only about 15,000. The Iraqis sent only two of the six battalions promised as reinforcements, bringing the number of Iraqi soldiers involved to 9,600. Some 30,000 Iraqi policemen were to help secure Iraqi neighborhoods, but many police units were infiltrated by the Shiite militias they were supposed to control or proved ineffectual.
 Much of the reconstruction that was to have been carried out by the Shiite-dominated Iraqi government was never undertaken or was directed away from Sunni areas. 
 The failure of the old plan led to a new strategy. Instead of emphasizing the turning over of security responsibilities to the Iraqi forces as quickly as possible so American troops could begin to withdraw, a new priority was to be put on protecting the Iraqi population. 
 The new strategy required more American forces, and the generals initially had different views as to how large the American troop reinforcement should be. 
 Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, and Gen. John P. Abizaid, the leader of the United States Central Command, who have long argued that sending too many troops would put off the day when the Iraqis would take responsibility for their own security, initially had a more modest approach. According to a senior administration official, they thought two additional American combat brigades would be sufficient for Baghdad. A third would be held in reserve in Kuwait and two more would be on call in the United States. 
 But Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, whom Mr. Bush has selected to replace General Casey, wanted to ensure that he had enough troops to carry out what by all accounts will be an extremely challenging mission. He sought a commitment that all five combat brigades would be sent. 
 Mr. Bush opted for the larger commitment. Five brigades are to be sent to improve security in the greater Baghdad area -- an increase of about 17,500 troops that will double the American force involved in security operations there. 
 Beyond the capital, the force in Anbar, the volatile province in western Iraq that is the base for many Sunni insurgents and Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, will be expanded by about 4,000 marines. The Americans and the insurgents are essentially locked in a stalemate there, and some officers have long complained that the effort in the west is understrength. This reinforcement is intended to buttress the Americans' ability to interrupt insurgent supply lines from Syria and to make it harder for the insurgents to concentrate their efforts on Baghdad. 
 Critics of the troop-increase plan have complained that 17,500 more troops are too few to control a capital of six million people. Supporters say that by concentrating these soldiers in crucial neighborhoods, along with the 15,000 American troops already involved in the operation, the reinforcement can be effective. 
 An unknown variable is the performance of the Iraqis. The Iraqis are to reinforce Baghdad with three more Iraqi Army brigades, bringing the total number of Iraqi brigades in the city to nine -- or some 20,000 troops if the units are at full strength. 
 The Iraqi brigades, along with Iraqi National Police units and regular Iraqi police units, will be deployed in nine sectors of Baghdad, each under an Iraqi commander. In an innovation, an American battalion will be assigned to each sector, a way to stiffen the Iraqi forces and monitor them should some harbor sectarian agendas. 
 In carrying out the old operation, Americans conducted patrols from large American bases in and around the city. This time, according to Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the second-ranking American command in Iraq, some American troops will remain in contested areas ''24/7'' to deter death squads and insurgents from infiltrating the sectors once the neighborhoods have been cleared. 
 In explaining the genesis of the new strategy, administration officials described its formation as essentially the product of a process of elimination. Other options were discarded until the White House was left with what it considered to be the least bad choice in a difficult situation. 
 Strikingly, Mr. Bush in his speech did not exclude the risk of failure. After listing all the reasons the new plan has a better chance of succeeding than the old one, Mr. Bush stressed that he had informed Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki that the United States commitment to the new operation was not open-ended. 
 ''If the Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose the support of the American people,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Now is the time to act.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Changes in Assumptions''In briefing material released yesterday, the White House acknowledged that many of its fundamental assumptions about Iraq had been mistaken.Previous assumptionsPrimary challenge is a Sunni-based insurgency.Political progress will help defuse the insurgency and dampen levels of violence.National compact is within the grasp of Iraqi leaders and will have meaningful impact on security.Majority of Iraqis will support the American-led and Iraqi efforts to build a democratic state.Region has a strategic interest in the stabilization of Iraq.Majority of lraqis and lraqi leaders see their interests best advanced by a unified Iraq.Talking with insurgent groups will help reduce violence.Iraqi security forces are gaining in strength and ability to handle Iraq's security challenges.New assumptionsPrimary challenge is violent extremists from multiple communities
the center is eroding and sectarianism is spiking.While political progress, economic gains and security are intertwined, political and economic progress are unlikely absent a basic level of security.Effective national reconciliation may or may not take the form of a comprehensive package or deal
 it could come about as the product of piecemeal efforts.Iraqis increasingly disillusioned with American-led efforts.Many Arab states remain wary of throwing their full support behind the Iraqi government.While still committed to a unified lraq, many lraqis are also advancing long-held sectarian agendas as hedging strategies or pursuit of narrow interests.Talking with insurgents has not improved security and may not produce strategic gains in current context.Many Iraqi security force elements are operating but not yet ready to handle security challenges independently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



230 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: To Counter Iran's Role in Iraq, Bush Moves Beyond Diplomacy

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
In promising to stop Iran from meddling in Iraq, President Bush returned Wednesday night to a strategy of confrontation in dealing with Tehran, casting aside what had been a limited flirtation with a more diplomatic approach toward it. 
 Mr. Bush accused Iran of providing material support for attacks on American troops and vowed to respond. ''We will disrupt the attacks on our forces,'' he said in his speech. ''We will seek out and destroy the networks providing advanced weaponry and training to our enemies in Iraq.''
Mr. Bush said the United States would send another aircraft carrier and its supporting ships to the Persian Gulf. Administration officials said the battle group would be stationed within quick sailing distance of Iran, a response to the growing concern that Iran is building up its own missile capacity and naval power, with the goal of military dominance in the gulf. 
 Mr. Bush also announced the deployment of Patriot missiles to protect America's gulf allies. A battery of such missiles is already in Qatar, having been moved there several months ago. 
 The more combative talk reflects increased frustration in the administration with Iran, which American officials blame for part of the rising death toll in Iraq.
 Military officials in Baghdad say they have documented a gradual rise in the number of sophisticated roadside bombs using ''shaped charges'' -- a type of weapon that commanders believe is imported from Iran. According to military statistics, 78 coalition troops were killed and 243 were wounded by these bombs between September and December of last year, compared with 53 killed by the bombs in the previous nine months. 
 American officials have provided members of Congress information to support the claim that Iran is helping to orchestrate attacks on Americans in Iraq, but the administration has not made that information public. 
 The American officials say that the Revolutionary Guard's Quds force trains inside Iran and then dispatches operatives into Iraq, using contacts with Iraqi Shiite militias to attack American troops.
 ''They're training to kill coalition forces,'' said one senior American counterterrorism official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''Their comments about wanting to see a stable Iraq are belied by this type of activity.''
 Gen. Michael V. Hayden, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, told Congress late last year that while he was originally skeptical of reports of Iranian operations inside Iraq, he now had the ''zeal of a convert'' on the matter. 
 One American official who recently returned from a trip to Baghdad said American commanders in Iraq believed that Iran was using its vast political influence to press Shiite politicians not to forge any long-term agreements with Sunnis.
 ''We caught them with their finger in the cookie jar last month,'' a senior administration official said, referring to the arrest of five Iranians in Iraq whom the Americans accused of running guns and planning sectarian attacks. The Iranians were eventually released by Iraqi authorities. 
 American officials maintain that the latest moves should not be seen as preparations for a military strike against Iran. But they also said that Mr. Bush's top deputies, including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and National Security Adviser Stephen J. Hadley, had decided that, barring some major conciliatory move from Tehran, American moves to engage Iran had run their course. 
 The United States has grown frustrated with what one administration official described as the ''molasseslike'' pace of diplomatic efforts at the United Nations to impose broad sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program. 
 The Security Council passed a resolution on Dec. 23 with sanctions intended to curb Iran's uranium enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes but the United States and some European nations contend is for the purpose of creating nuclear arms. The measure bars the trade of goods or technology related to Iran's nuclear program. 
 But American officials acknowledge that the resolution is too weak to force Iran to abandon its nuclear program and are seeking to increase economic and psychological pressure on Iran. The United States is pressing governments and financial institutions in Europe, Japan and China to cut some of their financial ties with Iran. 
 For instance, during talks in Washington last week between Ms. Rice and visiting Vice Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi of China, American officials urged Beijing to abandon a proposal for a $16 billion natural gas deal for the China National Offshore Oil Corporation to develop Iran's North Pars gas field, American officials said. The Chinese assured the United States that a decision was not imminent, American officials said. 
 Mr. Bush is expected to seek to apply pressure to other countries to limit their dealings with Iran in the coming month. American officials are hoping that the economic pressure will also persuade Iran not to actively oppose the new Bush strategy in Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MICHAEL HAYDEN (52%) Helene Cooper; Mark Mazzetti; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (95%); QATAR (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN (73%) Iran; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



231 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CIRCUITS: REPORTERS' NOTEBOOK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: On Display, the Video Frontier

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
SPLAYED across hundreds of flat-panel L.C.D. TVs in the booths of Samsung, Sharp, Sony and other manufacturers at the Consumer Electronics Show here are gorgeous images of roses, New Zealand mountains and still lifes of red peppers. 
 It's not that electronics executives are simply nature lovers. Liquid-crystal-display sets simply have a tougher time than plasma TVs in showing moving images without blurring the picture. The virtually motionless outdoor scenes look better than a smeared Ferrari racing across the screen.
Yet several companies said this week that problems long bedeviling L.C.D. TVs -- motion blur, weak contrast, and limited color reproduction -- had been solved. In other words, their L.C.D. sets finally produce a picture as good as plasma's. 
 To eliminate blur, all the major manufacturers have doubled the frame rate of some L.C.D. models to 120 frames per second. 
 Toshiba has incorporated proprietary technologies to widen the color palette and to help create true blacks rather than muddy grays. Sharp has reduced image smearing by cutting its panels' pixel response time to four milliseconds, and increased the contrast. Similarly, Samsung's L.C.D. models now turn the backlight off in the dark parts of a scene to increase the black level. 
 New display technologies, however, may make these enhancements moot. Sony is showing a 27-inch 10-millimeter-thick prototype TV using O.L.E.D.'s, or organic light-emitting diodes. The picture quality is extraordinary: bright, sharp, with deep colors. If Sony can make O.L.E.D. sets economically, it could mean the end of L.C.D.
 In the meantime, do the L.C.D. picture enhancement technologies actually enhance the picture? At times, yes. Sharp's top-of-the-line new models looked excellent, with strong color rendition, deep contrast and no apparent problems handling motion. But the image on one of Toshiba's new sets blurred in the corners, which a company representative attributed to transmission issues. 
 Whatever the technology claims, it's still worth looking for yourself. ERIC A. TAUB


GRAPHIC: Photo: TV NIRVANA -- Televisions, and the latest technologies to enhance them, have been a focal point of the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (91%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (90%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (73%) Television; Liquid Crystal Displays; Trade Shows and Fairs; Consumer Electronics Show

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (56%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (56%); 6502 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Eric A Taub

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (89%) NEVADA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



232 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2938 words

HEADLINE: 'The Most Urgent Priority for Success in Iraq Is Security,' Bush Says

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's address to the nation last night, as recorded by The New York Times: 
 Good evening. Tonight in Iraq, the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged in a struggle that will determine the direction of the global war on terror and our safety here at home. The new strategy I outline tonight will change America's course in Iraq, and help us succeed in the fight against terror.
When I addressed you just over a year ago, nearly 12 million Iraqis had cast their ballots for a unified and democratic nation. The elections of 2005 were a stunning achievement. We thought that these elections would bring the Iraqis together, and that as we trained Iraqi security forces, we could accomplish our mission with fewer American troops. 
 But in 2006, the opposite happened. The violence in Iraq -- particularly in Baghdad -- overwhelmed the political gains the Iraqis had made. Al Qaeda terrorists and Sunni insurgents recognized the mortal danger that Iraq's elections posed for their cause. And they responded with outrageous acts of murder aimed at innocent Iraqis. They blew up one of the holiest shrines in Shia Islam, the Golden Mosque of Samarra, in a calculated effort to provoke Iraq's Shia population to retaliate. Their strategy worked. Radical Shia elements, some supported by Iran, formed death squads. And the result was a vicious cycle of sectarian violence that continues today.
 The situation in Iraq is unacceptable to the American people and it is unacceptable to me. Our troops in Iraq have fought bravely. They have done everything we have asked them to do. Where mistakes have been made, the responsibility rests with me. 
 It is clear that we need to change our strategy in Iraq. So my national security team, military commanders and diplomats conducted a comprehensive review. We consulted members of Congress from both parties, our allies abroad and distinguished outside experts. We benefited from the thoughtful recommendations of the Iraq Study Group -- a bipartisan panel led by former Secretary of State James Baker and former Congressman Lee Hamilton. In our discussions, we all agreed that there is no magic formula for success in Iraq. And one message came through loud and clear: Failure in Iraq would be a disaster for the United States. 
 The consequences of failure are clear: Radical Islamic extremists would grow -- would -- would grow in strength and gain new recruits. They would be in a better position to topple moderate governments, create chaos in the region and use oil revenues to fund their ambitions. Iran would be emboldened in its pursuit of nuclear weapons. Our enemies would have a safe haven from which to plan and launch attacks on the American people. On Sept. 11, 2001, we saw what a refuge for extremists on the other side of the world could bring to the streets of our own cities. For the safety of our people, America must succeed in Iraq. 
 The most urgent priority for success in Iraq is security, especially in Baghdad. Eighty percent of Iraq's sectarian violence occurs within 30 miles of the capital. This violence is splitting Baghdad into sectarian enclaves and shaking the confidence of all Iraqis. Only Iraqis can end the sectarian violence and secure their people. And their government has put forward an aggressive plan to do it. 
 Our past efforts to secure Baghdad failed for two principal reasons: There were not enough Iraqi and American troops to secure neighborhoods that had been cleared of terrorists and insurgents. And there were too many restrictions on the troops we did have. Our military commanders reviewed the new Iraqi plan to ensure that it addressed these mistakes. They report that it does. They also report that this plan can work.
 Now, let me explain the main elements of this effort: The Iraqi government will appoint a military commander and two deputy commanders for their capital. The Iraqi government will deploy Iraqi Army and National Police brigades across Baghdad's nine districts. When these forces are fully deployed, there will be 18 Iraqi Army and National Police brigades committed to this effort -- along with local police. These Iraqi forces will operate from local police stations -- conducting patrols and setting up checkpoints and going door-to-door to gain the trust of Baghdad residents. 
 This is a strong commitment. But for it to succeed, our commanders say the Iraqis will need our help. So America will change our strategy to help the Iraqis carry out their campaign to put down sectarian violence and bring security to the people of Baghdad. This will require increasing American force levels. So I have committed more than 20,000 additional American troops to Iraq. The vast majority of them, five brigades, will be deployed to Baghdad. These troops will work alongside Iraqi units and be embedded in their formations. Our troops will have a well-defined mission: to help Iraqis clear and secure neighborhoods, to help them protect the local population and to help ensure that the Iraqi forces left behind are capable of providing the security that Baghdad needs. 
 Many listening tonight will ask why this effort will succeed when previous operations to secure Baghdad did not. Well, here are the differences: In earlier operations, Iraqi and American forces cleared many neighborhoods of terrorists and insurgents, but when our forces moved on to other targets, the killers returned. This time, we will have the force levels we need to hold the areas that have been cleared. In earlier operations, political and sectarian interference prevented Iraqi and American forces from going into neighborhoods that are home to those fueling the sectarian violence. This time, Iraqi and American forces will have a green light to enter these neighborhoods, and Prime Minister Maliki has pledged that political or sectarian interference will not be tolerated. 
 I have made it clear to the prime minister and Iraq's other leaders that America's commitment is not open-ended. If the Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose the support of the American people -- and it will lose the support of the Iraqi people. Now is the time to act. The prime minister understands this. Here is what he told his people just last week: ''The Baghdad security plan will not provide a safe haven for any outlaws, regardless of sectarian or political affiliation.''
 This new strategy will not yield an immediate end to suicide bombings, assassinations or I.E.D. [improvised explosive device] attacks. Our enemies in Iraq will make every effort to ensure that our television screens are filled with images of death and suffering. Yet over time, we can expect to see Iraqi troops chasing down murderers, fewer brazen acts of terror, and growing trust and cooperation from Baghdad's residents. When this happens, daily life will improve, Iraqis will gain confidence in their leaders and the government will have the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical areas. Most of Iraq's Sunni and Shia want to live together in peace, and reducing the violence in Baghdad will help make reconciliation possible.
 A successful strategy for Iraq goes beyond military operations. Ordinary Iraqi citizens must see that military operations are accompanied by visible improvements in their neighborhoods and communities. So America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has announced.
 To establish its authority, the Iraqi government plans to take responsibility for security in all of Iraq's provinces by November. To give every Iraqi citizen a stake in the country's economy, Iraq will pass legislation to share oil revenues among all Iraqis. To show that it is committed to delivering a better life, the Iraqi government will spend 10 billion dollars of its own money on reconstruction and infrastructure projects that will create new jobs. To empower local leaders, Iraqis plan to hold provincial elections later this year. And to allow more Iraqis to re-enter their nation's political life, the government will reform de-Baathification laws and establish a fair process for considering amendments to Iraq's constitution. 
 America will change our approach to help the Iraqi government as it works to meet these benchmarks. In keeping with the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, we will increase the embedding of American advisers in Iraqi Army units and partner a Coalition brigade with every Iraqi Army division. We'll help the Iraqis build a larger and better-equipped Army and we will accelerate the training of Iraqi forces, which remains the essential U.S. security mission in Iraq. We will give our commanders and civilians greater flexibility to spend funds for economic assistance. We will double the number of provincial reconstruction teams. These teams bring together military and civilian experts to help local Iraqi communities pursue reconciliation, strengthen the moderates and speed the transition to Iraqi self-reliance. And Secretary Rice will soon appoint a reconstruction coordinator in Baghdad to ensure better results for economic assistance being spent in Iraq.
 As we make these changes, we will continue to pursue Al Qaeda and foreign fighters. Al Qaeda is still active in Iraq. Its home base is Anbar Province. Al Qaeda has helped make Anbar the most violent area of Iraq outside the capital. A captured Al Qaeda document describes the terrorists' plan to infiltrate and seize control of the province. This would bring Al Qaeda closer to its goals of taking down Iraq's democracy, building a radical Islamic empire, and launching new attacks on the United States at home and abroad. 
 Our military forces in Anbar are killing and capturing Al Qaeda leaders, and they are protecting the local population. Recently, local tribal leaders have begun to show their willingness to take on Al Qaeda. And as a result, our commanders believe we have an opportunity to deal a serious blow to the terrorists. So I have given orders to increase American forces in Anbar Province by 4,000 troops. These troops will work with Iraqi and tribal forces to up the pressure on the terrorists. America's men and women in uniform took away Al Qaeda's safe haven in Afghanistan -- and we will not allow them to re-establish it in Iraq. 
 Succeeding in Iraq also requires defending its territorial integrity and stabilizing the region in the face of extremist challenge. This begins with addressing Iran and Syria. These two regimes are allowing terrorists and insurgents to use their territory to move in and out of Iraq. Iran is providing material support for attacks on American troops. We will disrupt the attacks on our forces. We will interrupt the flow of support from Iran and Syria. And we will seek out and destroy the networks providing advanced weaponry and training to our enemies in Iraq. 
 We are also taking other steps to bolster the security of Iraq and protect American interests in the Middle East. I recently ordered the deployment of an additional carrier strike group to the region. We will expand intelligence sharing and deploy Patriot air defense systems to reassure our friends and allies. We will work with the governments of Turkey and Iraq to help them resolve problems along their border. And we will work with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating the region.
 We will use America's full diplomatic resources to rally support for Iraq from nations throughout the Middle East. Countries like Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan and the gulf states need to understand that an American defeat in Iraq would create a new sanctuary for extremists and a strategic threat to their survival. These nations have a stake in a successful Iraq that is at peace with its neighbors, and they must step up their support for Iraq's unity government. We endorse the Iraqi government's call to finalize an International Compact that will bring new economic assistance in exchange for greater economic reform. And on Friday, Secretary Rice will leave for the region to build support for Iraq, and continue the urgent diplomacy required to help bring peace to the Middle East.
 The challenge playing out across the broader Middle East is more than a military conflict. It is the decisive ideological struggle of our time. On one side are those who believe in freedom and moderation. On the other side are extremists who kill the innocent and have declared their intention to destroy our way of life. In the long run, the most realistic way to protect the American people is to provide a hopeful alternative to the hateful ideology of the enemy -- by advancing liberty across a troubled region. It is in the interests of the United States to stand with the brave men and women who are risking their lives to claim their freedom, and to help them as they work to raise up just and hopeful societies across the Middle East. 
 From Afghanistan to Lebanon to the Palestinian Territories, millions of ordinary people are sick of the violence, and want a future of peace and opportunity for their children. And they are looking at Iraq. They want to know: Will America withdraw and yield the future of that country to the extremists -- or will we stand with the Iraqis who have made the choice for freedom?
 The changes I have outlined tonight are aimed at ensuring the survival of a young democracy that is fighting for its life in a part of the world of enormous importance to American security. Let me be clear: The terrorists and insurgents in Iraq are without conscience, and they will make the year ahead bloody and violent. Even if our new strategy works exactly as planned, deadly acts of violence will continue, and we must expect more Iraqi and American casualties. The question is whether our new strategy will bring us closer to success. I believe that it will. 
 Victory will not look like the ones our fathers and grandfathers achieved. There will be no surrender ceremony on the deck of a battleship. But victory in Iraq will bring something new in the Arab world: a functioning democracy that polices its territory, upholds the rule of law, respects fundamental human liberties and answers to its people. A democratic Iraq will not be perfect. But it will be a country that fights terrorists instead of harboring them, and it will help bring a future of peace and security for our children and our grandchildren.
 This new approach comes after consultations with Congress about the different courses we could take in Iraq. Many are concerned that the Iraqis are becoming too dependent on the United States and therefore, our policy should focus on protecting Iraq's borders and hunting down Al Qaeda. Their solution is to scale back America's efforts in Baghdad or announce the phased withdrawal of our combat forces. We carefully considered these proposals. And we concluded that to step back now would force a collapse of the Iraqi government, tear the country apart and result in mass killings on an unimaginable scale. Such a scenario would result in our troops being forced to stay in Iraq even longer and confront an enemy that is even more lethal. If we increase our support at this crucial moment, and help the Iraqis break the current cycle of violence, we can hasten the day our troops begin coming home.
 In the days ahead, my national security team will fully brief Congress on our new strategy. If -- if members have improvements that can be made, we will make them. If circumstances change, we will adjust. Honorable people have different views and they will voice their criticisms. It is fair to hold our views up to scrutiny. And all involved have a responsibility to explain how the path they propose would be more likely to succeed. 
 Acting on the good advice of Senator Joe Lieberman and other key members of Congress, we will form a new, bipartisan working group that will help us come together across party lines to win the war on terror. This group will meet regularly with me and my administration. It will help strengthen our relationship with Congress. We can begin by working together to increase the size of the active Army and Marine Corps, so that America has the Armed Forces we need for the 21st century. We also need to examine ways to mobilize talented American civilians to deploy overseas -- where they can help build democratic institutions in communities and nations recovering from war and tyranny.
 In these dangerous times, the United States is blessed to have extraordinary and selfless men and women willing to step forward and defend us. These young Americans understand that our cause in Iraq is noble and necessary, and that the advance of freedom is the calling of our time. They serve far from their families, who make the quiet sacrifices of lonely holidays and empty chairs at the dinner table. They have watched their comrades give their lives to ensure our liberty. We mourn the loss of every fallen American; and we owe it to them to build a future worthy of their sacrifice. 
 Fellow citizens: The year ahead will demand more patience, sacrifice and resolve. It can be tempting to think that America can put aside the burdens of freedom. Yet times of testing reveal the character of a nation. And throughout our history, Americans have always defied the pessimists and seen our faith in freedom redeemed. Now America is engaged in a new struggle that will set the course for a new century. We can and we will prevail. 
 We go forward with trust that the Author of Liberty will guide us through these trying hours. Thank you and good night. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush said that Iraqi and American forces, operating with fewer restrictions, would be able to reduce violence in Baghdad. (Photo by Darko Vojinovic/Associated Press)
 Qaeda terrorists and Sunni insurgents blew up the Golden Mosque of Samarra last year in a calculated effort to disrupt the progress from Iraqi elections, Mr. Bush said. (Photo by Hameed Rasheed/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



233 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: BUSH ADDING 20,000 U.S. TROOPS; SETS GOAL OF SECURING BAGHDAD

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush embraced a major tactical shift on Wednesday evening in the war in Iraq when he declared that the only way to quell sectarian violence there was to send more than 20,000 additional American troops into combat. 
 Yet in defying mounting pressure to begin troop withdrawals, the president reiterated his argument that the consequences of failure in Iraq were so high that the United States could not afford to lose.
In a speech to the nation, Mr. Bush conceded for the first time that there had not been enough American or Iraqi troops in Baghdad to halt the capital's descent over the past year into chaos. In documents released just before the speech, the White House acknowledged that his previous strategy was based on fundamentally flawed assumptions about the power of the shaky Iraqi government.
 Mr. Bush gave no indication that the troop increase would be short-lived, describing his new strategy as an effort to ''change America's course in Iraq,'' and he said that ''we must expect more Iraqi and American casualties'' in the course of more intensive round-the-clock patrols in some of Baghdad's most dangerous neighborhoods. 
 But Mr. Bush rekindled his argument that a withdrawal would doom to failure the American experiment in Iraq, touch off chaos throughout the Middle East, provide a launching pad for attacks in the United States, and embolden Iran to develop nuclear weapons. [Transcript, Page A18.]
 In making that argument, the president rejected strategies advocated by newly empowered Democrats, restive Republicans and the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, describing them as a formula for deepening disaster. ''To step back now would force a collapse of the Iraqi government,'' Mr. Bush said from the White House library, a room that officials said had been chosen to create more of a sense of a conversation with an anxious American public, rather than the formal surroundings of the Oval Office.
 ''Such a scenario would result in our troops being forced to stay in Iraq even longer, and confront an enemy that is even more lethal,'' Mr. Bush said. ''If we increase our support at this crucial moment, and help the Iraqis break the current cycle of violence, we can hasten the day our troops begin coming home.''
 He also offered his most direct acknowledgment of error in an American-led war that has lasted nearly four years and claimed more than 3,000 American lives. ''Where mistakes have been made, the responsibility lies with me,'' he said.
 Yet for the first time, Mr. Bush faces what could become considerable political opposition to pursuing a war in which 132,000 Americans are already committed, even before the increases announced Wednesday. 
 Democrats in Congress are drawing up plans for what, at a minimum, could be a nonbinding resolution expressing opposition to the commitment of more forces to what many of them say they now believe is a losing fight. They will be joined by some Republicans, and may attempt other steps to block Mr. Bush from deepening the American commitment. 
 Not since Richard M. Nixon ordered American troops in Vietnam to invade Cambodia in 1970 has a president taken such a risk with an increasingly unpopular war. ''For the safety of our people, America must succeed in Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said in repeating an argument that he has used for nearly four years -- that a retreat from the country before a decisive victory is won would provide terrorists a place in which to conduct new attacks on the United States and American targets.
 As part of a campaign to market the new strategy, Mr. Bush's aides insisted that the plan was largely created by the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. 
 Yet Mr. Bush sounded less than certain of his support for the prime minister, who many in the White House and the military fear may be intending to extend Shiite power over the Sunnis, or could prove incapable of making good on his promises. ''If the Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose the support of the American people and it will lose the support of the Iraqi people,'' Mr. Bush declared.
 He put it far more bluntly when leaders of Congress visited the White House earlier on Wednesday. ''I said to Maliki this has to work or you're out,'' the president told the Congressional leaders, according to two officials who were in the room. Pressed on why he thought this strategy would succeed where previous efforts had failed, Mr. Bush shot back: ''Because it has to.''
 In his 20-minute address to the nation, Mr. Bush said that for the first time Iraq would take command-and-control authority over all of its own forces, and that while more American ground troops were being put into the field, they would take more of a background role. He said the Iraqi government had committed to a series of ''benchmarks'' -- which included another 8,000 Iraqi troops and policemen in Baghdad, passage of long-delayed legislation to share oil revenues among Iraq's sects and ethnic groups, and a $10 billion jobs and reconstruction program, financed by the Iraqis. 
 Until the summer, Mr. Bush had used the phrase ''stay the course'' to describe his approach in Iraq, and his decision to describe his new strategy as an effort to ''change America's course'' appeared intended to distance himself from that old approach. An earlier plan unveiled in November 2005 had been titled ''Strategy for Victory in Iraq,'' but Mr. Bush used the word ''victory'' sparingly on Wednesday night, and then only to diminish expectations. 
 ''The question is whether our new strategy will bring us closer to success,'' he said. ''I believe that it will,'' saying that if it is successful it would result in a ''functioning democracy'' that ''fights terrorists instead of harboring them.''
 In some of his sharpest words of warning to Iran, Mr. Bush accused the Iranian government of ''providing material support for attacks on American troops'' and vowed to ''seek out and destroy the networks providing advanced weaponry and training to our enemies.''
 He left deliberately vague the question of whether those operations would be limited to Iraq or conducted elsewhere, and said he had ordered the previously reported deployment of a new aircraft carrier strike group to the region, where it is in easy reach of Iranian territory. 
 Mr. Bush also announced that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice would leave Friday for the region to build diplomatic support for the American effort in Iraq.
 Robert M. Gates, who replaced Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense secretary, is among the new members of the Iraq team whom Mr. Bush has brought in to execute the new strategy. 
 In the past week, Mr. Bush has speeded up the removal of the American commander in Iraq, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., who is to become the Army chief of staff, and replaced him with a counterinsurgency specialist, Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus , who has embraced the new plan. A new American ambassador has been nominated to Baghdad as well, to replace Zalmay Khalilzad, a Sunni of Afghan heritage, who has been nominated to represent the United States in the United Nations.
 While Democrats and some Republicans who attacked Mr. Bush's plan in advance of the speech have questioned sending more troops, others question whether the Bush plan is too small -- and falls short of the numbers needed to make a difference in a violent capital of six million. 
 Nonetheless, one of Mr. Bush's top advisers said at the White House on Wednesday that he expected that Senator John McCain, who has championed a significant, long-term increase in troops, would embrace the plan. 
 The adviser cited a section of the Iraq Study Group's report that had said the bipartisan commission could ''support a short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad, or to speed up the training and equipping mission.'' 
 But on the same page, the report warned that ''adding more American troops could conceivably worsen those aspects of the security problem that are fed by the view that the United States presence is intended to be a long-term 'occupation.' '' Similarly, the group urged direct engagement with Iran and Syria; Mr. Bush rejected that approach.
 Mr. Bush, one of his top aides said in an interview on Wednesday, simply concluded that ''the Iraqi government was running out of time'' and would collapse without additional help. Yet at the core of Mr. Bush's new strategy, his own aides said, lies a tension between two objectives: Mr. Bush's commitment to staying in Iraq until the country is a stable, self-sustaining democracy, and his vague threat to Mr. Maliki that the American presence would be cut short if Americans believed that the effort was failing. 
 His aides hinted that the administration had already come up with a ''Plan B'' in case the latest strategy failed, with one saying ''there are other ways to achieve our objective.'' But he would not describe that strategy, or say if it involved withdrawal, containment or the breakup of the country into sectarian entities.
 The five-brigade increase in American forces will be accomplished by speeding up the deployment of four units already scheduled to go to Iraq, and by sending one additional brigade that was not scheduled to go. The total increase of American troops in Iraq amounts to roughly 20,000, including 4,000 marines who will be stationed in Anbar Province, the stronghold of elements of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and the Sunni insurgency. The increase in Iraqi troops and policemen amounts, officials said, to about 8,000. 
 The units heading into Iraq begin with a brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, now in Kuwait, expected in Iraq before the end of the month, followed by a brigade of the First Infantry Division, based at Fort Riley, Kan., probably next month.
 The Army is also planning to announce that the Second Infantry Division, Fourth Brigade, based in Fort Lewis, Wash., and the Third Infantry Division's Second Brigade, based at Fort Stewart, Ga., and the Third Brigade, based at Fort Benning, Ga., should begin preparing to go to Iraq earlier than scheduled. Officials said that the total increase in troops could take three or four months.
 The Bush plan also calls for delaying the departure from Iraq of a Minnesota National Guard brigade by four months, an official said. The unit had planned to leave in the spring and had not been notified that it would be staying longer, Lt. Col. Kevin Olson, a spokesman for the Minnesota Guard, said Wednesday. 
 The president is expected to submit a supplemental budget request that will include $5.6 billion for the new troop commitment and roughly $1.1 billion for new job commitments and aid.

 Approx. U.S. troops in Baghdad: 7,200

Oct.
Approx. U.S. troops in Baghdad: 15,000 to 17,000

(pg. A19)

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush told the nation yesterday that ''failure in Iraq would be a disaster for the United States.'' (Photo by C-Span)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Announcing a New Iraq Policy''Major topics of President Bush's address to the nation last night.TROOP LEVELSMr. Bush announced he would send five additional brigades to Baghdad, an increase of about 16,000 combat troops that would roughly double the number of troops in the capital. The new troops would act in support of Iraqi forces, and would have the authority to clear and secure neighborhoods in both Sunni- and Shiite-majority areas. An additional 4,000 troops would be sent to Anbar Province, which the president described as a ''home base'' for Al Qaeda.OTHER VIEWSDemocratic leaders intend to hold symbolic votes in the House and Senate as early as next week on Mr. Bush's plan, and said in a letter to the president on Friday that the U.S. should move toward a phased withdrawal of troops in the next four to six months.The Iraq Study Group proposed working with the Iraqi government to increase the number and quality of Iraqi Army brigades, embedding more U.S. troops in support of Iraqi forces, and eventually limiting U.S. involvement to rapid-reaction and Special Operations teams.Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki presented a plan in November to shift American troops to the outskirts of Baghdad while the Iraqi government assumed responsibility for security in the capital.Senator John McCain, Republican, supports an increase ''until we can get the situation under control, or until it becomes clear that we can't.''Departing U.S. commanders in Iraq had been wary of a troop increase. Gen. George W. Casey Jr. presented a plan last year for a gradual troop withdrawal, and Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, whose tour ended last month, said an increase would encourage Iraqi forces to shelter behind American troops.ECONOMIC STRATEGYMr. Bush announced plans to double the number of provincial reconstruction teams and to give commanders and civilians more flexibility in spending on local improvements. He also announced that Iraq will allocate $10 billion to assist with reconstruction projects.OTHER VIEWSThe Iraq Study Group proposed increasing U.S. economic assistance to $5 billion per year, with an emphasis on both job creation and on developing capable ministries and institutions.POLITICAL STRATEGY AND DIPLOMACYMr. Bush stressed that regional stability would be necessary for success in Iraq, and warned that the U.S. would ''interrupt the flow of support from Iran and Syria'' to extremists in Iraq. The president said he had ordered an additional carrier strike group to the region and would deploy Patriot missile systems in order to reassure U.S. allies. Mr. Bush also noted that Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice would travel to the Middle East on Friday as part of a broad diplomatic effort to rally support for the Iraqi government.OTHER VIEWSThe Iraq Study Group proposed a regional support group as part of a comprehensive initiative to address major problems in Iraq. The group also called for ''extensive and substantive'' talks with Iran and Syria.Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the new Democratic chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, advocates dividing Iraq into separate Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish regions with a limited central government.IRAQI BENCHMARKSMr. Bush announced that the U.S. would hold the Iraqi government to a series of benchmarks, including the completion of a national oil law, the setting of a date for provincial elections, the influx of more Iraqi brigades to Baghdad, and the reforming of de-Baathification policies. Mr. Bush did not specify what he planned to do if Iraq failed to meet the agreed-upon measures.OTHER VIEWSThe Iraq Study Group proposed a similar series of milestones for Iraqi national reconciliation and self-governance that would be tied to U.S. political, military and economic support. (pg. A19)Chart/Photos: ''Plans for Baghdad''Last night, President Bush announced plans to send additional troops to Iraq, acknowledging that earlier attempts to stabilize Baghdad have failed.OPERATION TOGETHER FORWARDJune 14, 2006Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki announces a new plan to reduce violence in Baghdad. The plan includes increased traffic checkpoints and a 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew.RESULTIn late July, the White House acknowledges that Mr. Maliki's plan has failed to bolster security.REPOSITIONING TROOPSJuly 25, 2006President Bush and Mr. Maliki announce a plan to move at least an additional 4,000 U.S. troops into Baghdad. The plan is described as a repositioning of troops, not a redeployment that would require an increase in overall forces in Iraq.OPERATION TOGETHER FORWARD IIAug. 7, 2006Under a new plan, American and Iraqi forces begin house-to-house clearing operations, handing areas over to the Iraqi police once they are secured.RESULTThe Iraqis do not deliver four of the six Iraqi Army battalions that they had committed to the effort. In late October, the U.S. military command in Iraq acknowledges that the campaign has failed to reduce violence.TROOP INCREASEYesterdayPresident Bush announces that he plans to send five additional brigades, or about 16,000 troops, to Baghdad. The troops will act in support of Iraqi forces, focusing on protecting the Iraqi population. American troops will be embedded with Iraqi units and no neighborhoods will be off limits.July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (92%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



234 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A New Focus On Delta Air As Deal Bait

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY; Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines, in such dire straits a year ago that its chief financial officer called it ''a company I'm not sure we could have given away,'' is suddenly in great demand. 
 US Airways increased its unsolicited bid for Delta by more than 20 percent early yesterday, to about $10.3 billion. Hours later, Northwest Airlines emerged as a potential suitor.
Delta, according to people involved in the talks, is hoping to fend off US Airways, and has been in talks with Northwest for weeks. Both carriers are operating in bankruptcy, with plans to emerge later this year. 
 A Northwest bid would probably be preferable to Delta managers because the two airlines' route networks overlap less than with Delta and US Airways. A combination with Northwest is therefore likely to lead to fewer grounded planes, if any. 
 Delta would not comment on the Northwest talks, a spokeswoman, Betsy Talton, said. Roman Blahoski, a Northwest spokesman, also declined to comment.
 The growing interest in Delta reflects the improving fortunes of the airline industry, which is starting to post rare profits, and also perhaps the start of a new wave of consolidation.
 While the progress of any particular deal is a matter of conjecture, yesterday's events suggested that one or more airline mergers had become likelier than even a week ago. 
 Airlines, recovering from half a decade of huge losses, remain highly vulnerable to the next economic downturn, and many people see consolidation as a way to reduce costs and strengthen the industry's financial condition. United Airlines and Continental have been engaged in preliminary merger talks. And many analysts expect that a big merger could force one or two more.
 US Airways, based in Tempe, Ariz., first offered $8 billion to buy Delta, of Atlanta, in mid-November. But the effort failed to gain backing from Delta creditors, who will control the carrier after bankruptcy. 
 Delta management has issued a stand-alone plan it said was superior to the offer from US Airways. A slow-moving series of meetings followed between creditors and representatives of Delta and US Airways, which served to pick apart competing proposals. And it appeared that the proposed big merger might dissolve.
 That changed on Monday morning, when the Delta creditors' new consultant, Gordon M. Bethune, the 65-year-old former chief executive who turned around Continental Airlines, met with US Airways' chief, W. Douglas Parker, 45.
 They met at the Midtown Manhattan offices of Citigroup, which is advising US Airways, Mr. Parker said. And, through a series of tough questions about the merger proposal, Mr. Bethune made clear that Mr. Parker should increase his bid to overcome creditors' doubts about the risks of the deal, according to Mr. Parker.
 ''He uses a lot of profanity; he asked a lot of questions,'' Mr. Parker said of Mr. Bethune in an interview. ''It was clear they were still wrestling with our proposal. Was there enough reward to warrant the risk? He was very direct.''
 Mr. Bethune did not return calls seeking comment. Daniel H. Golden, a lawyer for the creditors' committee, declined to comment.
 In the meantime, Delta management has been pursuing its plan to emerge from bankruptcy as a stand-alone airline and preparing for a Feb. 7 hearing on the plan. And it announced last week that it had agreed to buy 30 new regional jets, a move that flies in the face of Mr. Parker's plan to cut back the combined carriers under the Delta name.
 ''Those airplanes aren't consistent with our plan,'' Mr. Parker said.
 So, seeing Delta potentially slipping away, he raised his bid, adding $1 billion in cash, for a total of $5 billion, and 11 million US Airways shares, for a total of 89.5 million, valued around $5.3 billion at yesterday's closing price of $58.93 a share. Delta creditors would receive 49 percent of the stock in the combined company.
 The bid will expire Feb. 1 unless creditors come out in support of allowing US Airways to conduct due diligence on Delta, support a filing with antitrust regulators to begin a review of the proposed deal, and call for postponement of the Feb. 7 hearing on Delta's stand-alone plan.
 Delta management valued the stand-alone plan at $9.4 billion to $12 billion, a range US Airways and some analysts said was based on overly optimistic estimates. Using Delta's valuation method, US Airways said its latest offer would be worth $12.7 billion to $15.4 billion. ''The revised offer eliminates any conceivable doubt,'' Mr. Parker said.
 Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights, agreed, saying the Delta management plan was almost certainly dead on arrival. ''The entrance of Gordon Bethune is a major positive for'' US Airways, Mr. King said. 
 Delta has said that US Airways' initial bid would not pass antitrust scrutiny because it added too much debt to the companies, and that it would further strain relations with workers. Delta said that it would review the new offer but argued that it raised the same questions.
 The union representing Delta pilots said it was opposed to the US Airways proposal. And some union officials representing other US Air workers have expressed reservations about the combination because they had yet to enter into new labor contracts reflecting a merger in 2005 with America West. 
 Lee Moak, chairman of the Delta chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association, said the group voted yesterday to commit $15 million more to defeat the US Airways bid. ''We will do everything we can to kill this merger,'' Mr. Moak said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (73%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (73%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007



235 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 16496 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Jan. 12 - Jan. 18

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'THE FEVER' In previews; opens on Jan. 24. Wallace Shawn stars in his own play about a man who wakes up in a war-torn country feeling under the weather (1:40). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'FRANK'S HOME' Previews start tomorrow. Opens on Jan. 30. Richard Nelson's new bio-play about the life and work of Frank Lloyd Wright stars Peter Weller (as Wright) and Harris Yulin (who plays Louis Sullivan) (1:45). Playwrights Horizons Mainstage, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 719-4200.

'THE GAZILLION BUBBLE SHOW' Performances begin on Wednesday. Fan Yan holds the world's record for the largest bubble ever blown, and in an even more amazing feat, he's parlayed this oddball stunt into a bubble-themed, family-friendly show (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'IN THE HEIGHTS' In previews; opens on Feb. 8. A new Off Broadway musical about two days in the life of Washington Heights, presented from the vantage point of a corner bodega (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'KIKI AND HERB' On the heels of a Broadway stint, these cabaret hipsters return to their downtown roots (1:30). Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.

'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' In previews; opens on Feb. 4. F. Murray Abraham plays Shylock in this Theater for a New Audience production. Darko Tresnjak directs (2:20). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200.

'A SPANISH PLAY' In previews; opens on Feb. 1. Zoe Caldwell leads an extraordinary cast (Linda Emond, Denis O'Hare, Larry Pine, Katherine Borowitz) in Yasmina Reza's new backstage play, in which real life and fiction blur (1:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'TRANSLATIONS' In previews; opens on Jan. 25. Brian Friel's drama about a British officer in 19th-century rural Ireland deals with themes of language, imperialism and culture clash. Garry Hynes directs (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)

'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' The exhilarating first two installments of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, these productions pulse with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast that includes Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* ' 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance. With his irresistibly mannered performance as a laconic doctor, Mr. Nighy mops the floor with Ms. Moore. Actually, he mops the floor with Mr. Hare's play (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)

*'THE CLEAN HOUSE' Sarah Ruhl's comedy about the painful but beautiful disorder of life has arrived in New York at last in a gorgeous production directed by Bill Rauch. Blair Brown and Jill Clayburgh delight as sisters with different views on the meaning of cleaning, and Vanessa Aspillaga is equally good as the depressed maid with little affection for her work but a deep conviction that a good joke can be a matter of life and death (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'DAI (ENOUGH)' Iris Bahr's unnerving one-woman show doesn't have much to add to the Middle East debate, but it sure leaves a lasting impression. Ms. Bahr plays an assortment of characters who have the misfortune of being in a Tel Aviv cafe that is about to be visited by the havoc common to such establishments. The attack is rendered in jarring fashion, repeatedly; you watch the play on pins and needles, waiting for the next burst. Gimmicky? Sure. But viscerally effective (1:40). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 253-9983. (Neil Genzlinger)

'EVIL DEAD: THE MUSICAL' This likable horror comedy based on Sam Raimi's gory movies wants to be the next ''Rocky Horror Show.'' To that end, it offers deadpan lyrics, self-referential humor and geysers of stage blood (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anita Gates)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men and two women perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Gates)

'MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS' This musical is too big for its stage, but the young turn-of-the-last-century sweethearts have great chemistry, and there are four terrific songs (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Gates)

'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'REGRETS ONLY' Old acquaintance comes under siege in Paul Rudnick's chiffon-thin comedy about the varieties of love and marriage. But no one who sees this latest offering from one of the funniest quipmeisters alive is going to doubt that Christine Baranski is a one-liner's best friend (2:00). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'RIDDLELIKELOVE (WITH A SIDE OF KETCHUP)' This one-woman show, in which Julie Fitzpatrick tells of her friendship with a deaf woman, is cloying and thin, but the sign-language interpretation provided at each performance gives it an interesting extra dimension, helping to bring the subject to life (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)

'SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER' As the luscious (and lobotomy-threatened) damsel in distress in Tennessee Williams's famously lurid melodrama, Carla Gugino gives a gutsy assurance to a production that otherwise lacks compelling confidence. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes Blythe Danner, in a fascinating but misconceived performance as a smothering mother from hell (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban)

'TWO TRAINS RUNNING' Directed by Lou Bellamy, a rough-edged revival of August Wilson's 1992 play about the stark economics of life and death for African-Americans, set in a dying diner in Pittsburgh in the late 1960s. The pace drags in this production, but it remains a bracing reminder of Mr. Wilson's singular talent for making cold, hard numbers sing hot, molten blues (3:40). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'FLUKE' A meditative collage of enigmatic riffs on ''Moby-Dick'' presented by the rambunctious experimental company Radiohole (1:30). Collapsable Hole, 146 Metropolitan Avenue, at Berry Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 388-2251. (Jason Zinoman)

'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

Long-Running Shows

'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'BUTLEY' In this uneasy revival of Simon Gray's portrait of a toxic English professor, directed by Nicholas Martin, Nathan Lane fires off witticisms as if they were silver bullets with ''Made in Britain'' engraved on them. A less-than-perfect marriage of a first-rate actor with a first-rate play (2:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley)

'AN OAK TREE' Tim Crouch plays a hypnotist in this elusive puzzle of a play about grief and the power of suggestion (1:05). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Zinoman)

'PURITY' The provocateur Thomas Bradshaw's horror show confronts black-on-black racism (1:15). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closes on Sunday. (Zinoman)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin stir up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100; closes on Sunday. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked, not quite simultaneous stories set on three different continents, with dialogue in several languages. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (A. O. Scott)

'BLACK CHRISTMAS' (R, 100 minutes) It's been more than 30 years since the original ''Black Christmas'' revealed how much fun it could be to unleash a psycho in a sorority house. Glen Morgan's disastrous remake not only sidelines the original's hilariously obscene phone calls but also drags its unseen killer, and his psychoses, into the light. Smothering terror beneath a blanket of unnecessary information, the movie is no more than a dismal Christmas card to its predecessor. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn human misery into entertainment. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'BORAT: CULTURAL LEARNINGS OF AMERICA FOR MAKE BENEFIT GLORIOUS NATION OF KAZAKHSTAN' (R, 89 minutes) In this brainy, merciless comedy, a Kazakh journalist named Borat Sagdiyev, a k a the British comic Sacha Baron Cohen, invades America. America laughs, cries, surrenders. (Dargis)

'CASINO ROYALE' (PG-13, 144 minutes) The latest James Bond vehicle finds the British spy leaner, meaner and now played by an attractive piece of blond rough named Daniel Craig. Zap, pow, ka-ching! (Dargis)

'CHARLOTTE'S WEB' (G, 113 minutes) Gary Winick's adaptation of E. B. White's great children's novel is faithful to the wit and feeling of the source. The celebrity-voiced animals are charming, and Julia Roberts is in fine form as the heroic spider, whose writing ability saves the life of a pig. (Scott)

* 'CHILDREN OF MEN' (R, 100 minutes) The end is nigh in this superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. Based on the P. D. James book, the film stars an excellent Clive Owen and features equally sterling support from the actors Michael Caine, Danny Huston and Chiwetel Ejiofior, among others, as well as the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki. (Dargis)

'CODE NAME: THE CLEANER' (PG-13, 91 minutes) Cedric the Entertainer clogs the arteries of what could have been a savvy riff on the ''Bourne'' films with way too much ham, playing a janitor who wakes up with amnesia, a dead man beside him. A missing computer chip fuels the plot, aided by Lucy Liu and Nicollette Sheridan. Though it's all too dumb to amuse grownups, it's harmless fun for tweener types. (Neil Genzlinger)

'COMEDY OF POWER' (No rating, 110 minutes, in French) Isabelle Huppert is brisk and fierce as a French investigative judge going after corrupt fat cats. The director, Claude Chabrol, is more interested in the forms of ruling-class behavior than in the details of high-level criminality, but his detached, complacent style makes for an interesting contrast with Ms. Huppert's conviction. (Scott)

'CURSE OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER' (R, 114 minutes, in Mandarin) The Chinese director Zhang Yimou aims for Shakespeare and winds up with Jacqueline Susann in this Tang dynasty melodrama roiling with incest, fraternal rivalry and madness-inducing fungus. As an emperor and empress fighting for control of their three sons, Chow Yun Fat and Gong Li lend the film a core of marital toxicity that's deliciously unstable. Directing with operatic delirium, Mr. Zhang has created a movie in which the line between tragedy and black comedy has been all but erased. (Catsoulis)

'THE DEAD GIRL' (R, 93 minutes) An impressively well-acted movie, ''The Dead Girl'' has a chip on its shoulder. The relentless emotional violence in it, a compendium of five vignettes related to a young woman whose naked, mutilated corpse is discovered on a barren hillside, is of a level rarely found in movies, even those steeped in gore. There is some gore in ''The Dead Girl,'' but it is eclipsed in intensity by the verbal abuse hurled by its desperately unhappy characters at the people closest to them. (Stephen Holden)

* 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis)

'DHOOM 2' (No rating, 151 minutes, in Hindi) A slick and satisfying example of the new, thoroughly modern Bollywood, this cops-and-robbers tale is animated by old-fashioned star power. Hrithik Roshan plays the ''smartest and coolest thief alive,'' and Aishwarya Rai is the small-time crook who loves him. (Rachel Saltz)

'ERAGON' (PG, 99 minutes) This lad-and-his-dragon fantasy set in a land bristling with Tolkienesque nomenclature and earnest British actors is as lacking in fresh ideas as Tim Allen's manager. Directed by the wonderfully named Stefen Fangmeier, it boasts the usual genre lineup: an evil king (John Malkovich), a whey-faced hero (Edward Speleers) and a serene warrior-maiden (Sienna Guillory), as well as the required rebel hordes and bucolic landscapes. Some of the characters won't be returning for the sequel, but no matter. In all likelihood, neither will the audience. (Catsoulis)

* 'FLUSHED AWAY' (PG, 85 minutes) Sewer rats, singing leeches and whimsical British anarchy -- this computer-animated feature from Aardman Animations (''Wallace and Gromit,'' ''Chicken Run'') is completely delightful. (Scott)

'FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION' (PG-13, 86 minutes) This satire of pre-Oscar-nomination buzz in Hollywood is far and away the broadest comedy Christopher Guest and his improvisatory company have made. It is also the flimsiest, and unlike Mr. Guest's earlier films, it has no airs of being a fake documentary. As farce trumps satire, the humor's subversive edge is lost, along with meaningful character development, with the brilliant exception of Catherine O'Hara. (Holden)

'FREEDOM WRITERS' (PG-13, 123 minutes) Hilary Swank uses her characteristic neediness to fine effect in a true-to-life story about a teacher making a difference in a Southern California high school. The writer and director Richard LaGravenese provides the smartly laid foundation, but it's the kids who give the film its strong emotional tug. (Dargis)

'THE GOOD GERMAN' (R, 102 minutes) In his adaptation of the Joseph Kanon novel, Steven Soderbergh tries to resurrect the magic of classical Hollywood, principally by sucking out all the air, energy and pleasure from his own filmmaking. It's no wonder George Clooney, who stars alongside a vamping Cate Blanchett, looks confused. (Dargis)

'HAPPILY N'EVER AFTER' (PG, 87 minutes) Like Dreamworks's ''Shrek'' comedies, ''Happily'' is a grab-bag parody set in a fantasyland derived from bedtime stories and Disney films. The adopted chambermaid Ella (voiced by Sarah Michelle Gellar, drawn like Winona Ryder) and the poor dishwasher Rick (Freddie Prinze Jr.) battle Ella's wicked stepmother, Frieda (Sigourney Weaver). Despite self-aware touches, this is another tired kidsploitation product in which a wasp-waisted ingenue and a shallow beau drive the plot and live happily ever after. (Matt Zoller Seitz)

'HAPPY FEET' (PG, 100 minutes) The director George Miller gets happy and snappy, then goes dark and deep, in a musical about an animated penguin who was born to dance. Take hankies. (Dargis)

* 'INLAND EMPIRE' (No rating, 179 minutes) David Lynch's extraordinary, savagely uncompromised new film stars a dazzling Laura Dern as an actress who tumbles down rabbit holes inside rabbit holes inside rabbit holes. As cracked as Mad magazine, though generally more difficult to parse, the film has the power of nightmares and is one of the few this year that deserve to be called art. (Dargis)

'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)

* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)

* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott)

'MISS POTTER' (PG, 92 minutes) In ''Miss Potter,'' Renee Zellweger, her face pickled in cheeriness, is Beatrix Potter, the creator of Peter Rabbit, Squirrel Nutkin and Mrs. Tittlemouse, among other beloved characters in children's literature. As portrayed by Ms. Zellweger, Potter is almost as chipper as Julie Andrews's Mary Poppins, a proto-feminist, proto-environmentalist and perfect lady to boot. There was plenty of drama in Potter's life, but the movie turns major conflicts and losses into minor setbacks in a charmed, entirely virtuous life. The movie is far too nice for its own good. (Holden)

'NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM' (PG, 108 minutes) In this chaotic, overstuffed family comedy, Ben Stiller is a night watchman at the American Museum of Natural History, where the exhibits come to life at night and attack him and one another. This computerized spectacle spares no expense, but the storytelling is weak, and the hit-or-miss jokes miss more than hit. (Holden)

'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis)

* 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott)

'THE PAINTED VEIL' (PG-13, 125 minutes) Nicely directed by John Curran, this version of the W. Somerset Maugham novel draws you in by turning a distaff bildungsroman into a fine romance with Naomi Watts and Edward Norton. (Dargis)

'PERFUME: THE STORY OF A MURDERER' (R, 147 minutes) There's no other way to say it: Tom Tykwer's excruciatingly literal-minded adaptation of the best-selling novel about an 18th-century serial killer with an acute sense of smell is a real stinker. (Scott)

'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis)

* 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis)

'ROCKY BALBOA' (PG, 102 minutes) Surprisingly, the sixth installment of this franchise is no embarrassment. Like its forerunners, it goes the distance almost in spite of itself. It's all heart and no credibility, except as a raw-boned fable. From the very beginning, Rocky Balboa was about as lifelike a character as Popeye pumped up with spinach. But that may be the point of a series that peddles the notion that if you dream it hard enough, you can live it. (Holden)

'UNACCOMPANIED MINORS' (PG, 89 minutes) The title doubles as an advisory. Your kids may like it; pick them up when it's over. (Scott)

'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott)

* 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott)

'WE ARE MARSHALL' (PG, 128 minutes) This fact-based story of a West Virginia college town recovering from the death of its entire football team in a 1970 plane crash is a stiff, manipulative dud that gets wrong everything ''Friday Night Lights'' got right. Matthew McConaughey hams it up as the college's goofy new coach, who whips the replacement team into decent shape. (Holden)

Film Series

Sven Nykvist Remembered (Tonight through Sunday) Three films this weekend highlight the achievements of this great Swedish cinematographer, who died in September. ''The Silence'' (1963) is one of several films he shot for the director Ingmar Bergman, this time in brooding black and white; ''An-Margritt'' is a 1969 Norwegian film by Arne Skouen featuring one of Mr. Bergman's favorite performers, Liv Ullmann, as a young woman struggling to survive in a 17th-century mining community; ''Crimes and Misdemeanors'' (1989) finds Woody Allen in a Bergmanesque mood, contemplating the silence of God as Nykvist lights a strangely Nordic New York City. Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (David Kehr)

CRITICS CHOICE: GREAT DOCUMENTARIES (Tomorrow and Sunday) Members of the New York Film Critics Circle introduce some of their favorite nonfiction films. ''The Thin Blue Line,'' presented tomorrow by Mike D'Angelo of Esquire magazine, is the 1993 Errol Morris film that reopened a Dallas murder case, resulting in the exoneration of the man convicted for the crime, told in a slick, semifictional style. Also tomorrow, Stephen Whitty of The Star-Ledger offers ''Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills,'' a look at a multiple killing in the deep South by the directors Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky, who will attend. On Sunday, J. Hoberman of The Village Voice reaches further back into the past for Dziga Vertov's deliriously subjective Soviet propaganda film of 1928, ''The Man with a Movie Camera,'' which will be shown in an archival print from the George Eastman House. (Through Feb. 25.) Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Kehr)

THE 2007 NY JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL (Tomorrow through Thursday) Among this week's many programs: Lisa Azuelos's ''Gorgeous,'' about a group of North African Jewish women who meet to discuss their new lives in Paris; ''Love and Sacrifice,'' a newly restored Yiddish melodrama shot in New York in 1936 by the director George Roland; and ''Our Children,'' a 1948 comedy starring Shimon Dzigan and Israel Shumacher that is said to be the last Yiddish-language film made in Poland. (Through Jan. 25.) Walter Reade Theater 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $10. (Kehr)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

TUNDE ADEBIMPE AND ALIANnA KALABA (Tomorrow) Time was when the members of TV on the Radio, now the most critically adored band in New York, played in tiny clubs, blending electronic noises with Tunde Adebimpe's haunting falsetto. They have since graduated to much bigger gigs, but tomorrow at Tonic, the Lower East Side headquarters of the avant-garde, Mr. Adebimpe collaborates with Alianna Kalaba, the drummer of the Chicago band We Ragazzi. What will they do? Perhaps they don't even know, and that's why it will be good. Also on the bill are Pit Er Pat, Matteah Baim and Bear in Heaven. At 10 p.m., 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; $10. (Ben Sisario)

ANTI-SOCIAL MUSIC (Tomorrow) The final frontier for weird rock is classical music. Anti-Social Music, a collective of New York musicians who play in various pop and new-music bands -- including some big ones, like the Hold Steady -- is one of a handful of groups that boldly go into this realm, playing works for strings, woodwinds and other instruments by its 11 members (six of whom have degrees in music composition, the group's Web site, antisocialmusic.org, declares). Skeptics note: it can get pretty rowdy. At 9 p.m., BAMCafe, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; no cover. (Sisario)

MAX BEMIS (Sunday) Screamed warnings of being at the end of one's rope are standard issue in emo. But Mr. Bemis, the singer of the Los Angeles band Say Anything, isn't kidding: the group's latest release was delayed when he went missing, only to turn up in a mental institution in Houston. His songs bounce manically from exuberant to cynical, tender to bombastic, and, even at their most despairing, have a certain swaggering showmanship. He plays a solo acoustic show with Andy Jackson, the guitarist of the band Hot Rod Circuit. At 7 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $12. (Sisario)

ANDREW BIRD (Wednesday) A talented multi-instrumentalist, Mr. Bird shows off his fiddle and guitar playing in songs that are as wistful as they are fantastical. But his most impressive technique is not on fiddle or guitar, nor on the electronic effects that he uses to make the music breathe; rather, it's his dexterous, expressive whistling, which floats high above in eerily beautiful tones. With John Southworth. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)

CARNIVORE (Tomorrow) For fans of obscure New York metal only: before founding Type O Negative, Peter Steele led Carnivore, one of the most aggressive and, perhaps not coincidentally, offensive bands of the mid-'80s thrash scene. (Typical song title: ''Jesus Hitler.'') The new version of the band does not include any original members besides Mr. Steele. With Krieg, Lair of the Minotaur, A.C., Embalmer, Dimentianon and Annunaki. At 7 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $30. (Sisario)

* COLD WAR KIDS (Wednesday) The craggy guitars and piano, verge-of-a-breakdown vocals and elliptical songwriting of this band from Austin, Tex., put it at the top of the music-blogger food chain last year. Now comes the hard part: maintaining popularity as the Internet eye roves again. This month the band is bouncing back and forth between New York and Los Angeles each week in a ''bicoastal residency.'' At 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; sold out. (Sisario)

ROBERT CRAY (Tuesday) The embodiment of the clean, commercial -- some might say rootless -- style that has defined the blues since the 1980s, Mr. Cray has an elegant touch with his Fender Stratocaster, and sings about desire and infidelity in a cool croon that is closer to pop than to Howlin' Wolf. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $47 in advance, $50 at the door. (Sisario)

dB'S (Tomorrow) In the early 1980s, the dB's, four guys from North Carolina who relocated to New York, were local favorites for their nervy, hummable hybrid of New Wave and the jangly pop-rock of the Byrds and Big Star, with some country thrown in as well. The reunited band -- Peter Holsapple, Chris Stamey, Will Rigby and Gene Holder -- recorded a song for Hurricane Katrina relief and are working on a new album. The two opening acts here are family: Mitch Easter and his band, and the Sneakers, consisting of Mr. Stamey, Mr. Rigby, Mr. Easter and Robert Keely. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $16 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sisario)

MARK EITZEL (Thursday) Depression is Mr. Eitzel's element; as leader of the American Music Club and through a solo career, he has anatomized melancholy down to the molecular level. In a weary voice, with tunes that blur folk songs and torch songs in a smoky haze, he looks at estrangement and betrayal, loneliness and separation, and bad luck. It's easy to believe him when he sings, ''I'm tired to the bone of always telling you goodbye.'' With the Black Swans. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

* FALL OUT BOY (Tuesday) One of the first groups to get wide attention for its popularity on MySpace, Fall Out Boy, from Chicago, is the model second-wave (or is this the third?) emo band: snarky and jumpy, interested in relationships over solitude, and bursting with melodic pop-punk riffs that come down from Green Day and Blink-182. With New Found Glory, Lifetime and Permanent Me. At 6:15 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $35. (Sisario)

PAUL GREEN SCHOOL OF ROCK MUSIC (Tomorrow and Sunday) As seen in the documentary ''Rock School,'' Mr. Green offers an extensive curriculum at his Philadelphia school, teaching youngsters the rock 'n' roll canon, as well as the fundamentals of power chords and budda-budda bass lines. Here his students offer their version of ''Jesus Christ Superstar.'' At 2:30 p.m., Rebel, 251 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 695-2747, rebelnyc.com; $10. (Sisario)

GRUPO NICHE, JIMMY BOSCH (Tomorrow) Grupo Niche, from Colombia, holds on to the high-powered horns-and-percussion salsa forged in the 1970s. Jimmy Bosch is a trombonist who savors the Latin jazz tradition of the descarga, a jam session everyone can dance to. This ''hard salsa'' takes musical chances but never lets go of the beat. At 8 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West and Goulden Avenue, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, lehmancenter.org; $30 to $45. (Pareles)

* HASSAN HAKMOUN (Tomorrow) A leading ambassador of the ecstatic, vaguely bluesy Gnawa music of Morocco, Mr. Hakmoun, who created a sensation in the world-music circuit when he arrived in New York 20 years ago, plays one of his somewhat rare traditional concerts. Playing the sintir (a long-necked, resonant lute), Mr. Hakmoun leads spellbinding trance ceremonies, and with castanets around his ankles, performs acrobatic dances. Also on the bill is Berber music by Abderahim Boutat. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 545-7536,symphonyspace.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $27; $15 for students. (Sisario)

HOLMES BROTHERS (Tuesday) Steeped in blues and gospel, Sherman and Wendell Holmes harmonize and raise the rafters with songs that draw hope from hard times. Their version of gospel is a close neighbor of Southern soul and country. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Pareles)

LITTLE RICHARD (Monday) He may always be most celebrated for bringing scat to rock (''A-wop-bop-a-loo-bop, a-lop-bam-boom!''), but Little Richard's delirious falsetto ''oooh!'' and androgynous showmanship have influenced everybody from Paul McCartney to Prince. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $60 in advance, $64 at the door. (Sisario)

BARRY MANILOW (Tuesday through Thursday) If Velveeta could sing At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $49.50 to $279.50. (Pareles)

LIZ McCOMB (Thursday) A mezzo pop-gospel singer who grew up in Cleveland but has lived in Europe for the last 25 years, Ms. McComb moves from smoothness to Pentecostal abandon; she has been something of an ambassador in France and not that well known in her home country. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Ben Ratliff)

MOS DEF'S BIG BAND (Wednesday) Lincoln Center's American Songbook series, getting gradually more adventurous each year, opens with Mos Def, the talented and always surprising rapper and actor. Here he picks up a musical avocation, crooning with a big band, in music by Miles Davis and others. At 8:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; sold out. (Sisario)

MY BRIGHTEST DIAMOND (Wednesday) In an expressively slippery voice, Shara Worden, who performs as My Brightest Diamond, spins luxurious fantasies that leap in scale from music boxes to colliding heavenly bodies. With Jeremy Denk and Soovin Kim, and Gabriel Kahane. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; $8. (Sisario)

ANDERS PARKER (Wednesday) Mr. Parker, who led the band Varnaline, immerses his songs in the stoic drama of country and folk music, resulting in a melancholy that is sometimes indistinguishable from cynicism. (''The hours I've wasted here I could have wasted anywhere.'') With the 'mericans. At 8 p.m., Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario)

STEVE ROSS (Tonight) In ''Americans in Paris,'' this ever-dapper singer and pianist performs a program of Parisian-scented songs in conjunction with an exhibition of paintings, ''Americans in Paris, 1860-1900,'' on view through Jan. 28. Expect lots of Cole Porter, whose airy spirit Mr. Ross channels with lilting, lighthearted suavity. At 7, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $40. (Stephen Holden)

RON SEXSMITH (Tonight) Mr. Sexsmith seems self-effacing and hesitant at first, with a voice that sidles up to notes like a wallflower trying to slip into a party unnoticed. But behind the outward modesty is a craftsman who stubbornly upholds the verities of 1960s songwriting, placing supple melodies atop unexpected harmonies and offering wistful regret and consolation in equal parts. With Kim Taylor. At 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $17. (Pareles)

SLOAN (Thursday) Like modern metafictions, Sloan's pop-rock songs twist inward on themselves. With their winsome tunes and neo-Beatles intricacies, Sloan's songs are not just about unrequited yearnings, but also about the process of writing pop songs about unrequited yearnings. They're rarely so clever that their heart doesn't come through. With Spiral Beach and the Love Loves. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $20. (Pareles)

TEXT OF LIGHT (Tonight) Lee Ranaldo of Sonic Youth and Alan Licht offer a guitar soundtrack to photographs and films by Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, the Hungarian artist and Bauhaus principal, and also improvise musical accompaniment to avant-garde films by Stan Brakhage and others. The performance is presented by the Whitney Museum in conjunction with an exhibition, ''Albers and Moholy-Nagy: From the Bauhaus to the New World,'' on view until Jan. 21. At 7:30, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org; free with pay-what-you wish admission to the museum, after 6. (Sisario)

WHEATUS (Monday) Seven years after this cheeky Long Island power-pop band scored a minor novelty hit with its Weezeresque ''Teenage Dirtbag,'' it soldiers on. New topics include BMX bikers and even the twin towers, which Brendan B. Brown, the group's leader and songwriter, says reminded him of ''Motown '60s skinny ties.'' With Midstates and Mason Dixon. At 8:30 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $10. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

CLAUDIA ACUNA (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Acuna is a vocalist attracted to lyrical high drama and guided by the pulse and passion of her native Chile. She sounds best when supported by sympathetic musicians like the pianist Jason Lindner, who leads her rhythm section here. (Through next Friday.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Nate Chinen)

BEN ALLISON (Tomorrow) Mr. Allison, a bassist and composer, has a knack for assembling hardy and sophisticated ensembles like this one, with Michael Blake on saxophones, Frank Kimbrough on Wurlitzer keyboard and Michael Sarin on drums. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* KENNY BARRON TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) Kenny Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and rhythmically surefooted piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting; he'll explore at least a few different styles here, with Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. (Through Jan. 21). At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

RICHARD BONA (Tonight) Mr. Bona, the Cameroonian bassist and singer, received a Grammy nomination in the contemporary world music category for his album ''Tiki'' (Decca), which he will revisit here. At 9:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES CARNEY GROUP (Tomorrow and Sunday) James Carney, a smart keyboardist and a broadly imaginative composer, leads a trio with the flexible rhythm team of Chris Lightcap on bass and Mark Ferber on drums. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Biscuit BBQ, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 399-2161, biscuitbbq.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. Sunday at 9 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, bar4.net; suggested cover, $5. (Chinen)

GERALD CLAYTON TRIO (Tomorrow) Gerald Clayton was the popular favorite at last year's Thelonious Monk International Jazz Piano Competition, though he finished second. His eloquent and full-bodied style finds a good showcase in a trio with David Wong on bass and Pete Van Ostrand on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)

COMMON THREAD/BRASS CONSCIOUSNESS (Wednesday) Common Thread is a cadre of incisive players currently or formerly apprenticed to the influential avant-garde saxophonist Steve Coleman: the trumpeters Jonathan Finlayson and Shane Endsley, the trombonist Tim Albright, the bassist Chris Lightcap and the drummer Marcus Gilmore. Brass Consciousness, which plays a later set, adds one more trumpeter, Ralph Alessi. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen)

* 'CUBANA BE, CUBANA BOP' (Tonight and tomorrow night) The precision-honed Afro-Latin Jazz Orchestra, under the direction of the pianist Arturo O'Farrill, presents a tribute to the pioneering Latin jazz of Dizzy Gillespie, who first performed the George Russell composition ''Cubano Be, Cubano Bop'' with his big band in the 1940s. Also on the program are reliable Gillespie flag-wavers from the same era, like ''Manteca.'' At 8, Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; cover, $32.50 to $127.50. (Chinen)

DANCE NOW MUSIC (Tuesday through Thursday) Avant-garde music and movement are equal partners in this off-season Vision Festival series, which runs through next Sunday. Next week's highlights include trios led by the multireedists Joe McPhee (Tuesday) and Cooper-Moore (Wednesday), and a duo by the dancer Julia Wilkins and the alto saxophonist Matana Roberts (Thursday). (Through Jan. 21.) At 7:30 p.m., Teatro La Tea at Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, near Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681, visionfestival.org; $20 a night ($10 for students), or three nights for $40. (Chinen)

SCOTT DUBOIS QUARTET (Wednesday) Scott DuBois, a guitarist equally devoted to intricate compositional forms and spacious free improvisation, celebrates the release of a new album, ''Tempest'' (Soul Note); his former teacher, the saxophonist David Liebman, joins a group with Thomas Morgan on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

ANDREW DURKIN'S INDUSTRIAL JAZZ GROUP/DARCY JAMES ARGUE'S SECRET SOCIETY (Sunday) Two powerful big bands, each guided by a clear vision. The Industrial Jazz Group, based in Los Angeles and led by the pianist Andrew Durkin, offers retro sounds with an ironic touch; the Secret Society, let by the composer Darcy James Argue, is future-minded and dead serious. At 8 p.m., Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505; cover, $12. (Chinen)

HARRIS EISENSTADT LOW TRIO (Sunday) The drummer Harris Eisenstadt features a lower register, and his own tunes, in this experimental trio with Jose Davila on tuba and Ben Gerstein on trombone. At 7 p.m., Jimmy's, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

SONNY FORTUNE QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Since the 1960s, countless saxophonists have adopted the methodology of John Coltrane, but few have captured his restless spirit. Sonny Fortune, the saxophonist of choice for the Coltrane drummer Elvin Jones, is chief among them. At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

AL FOSTER QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The well-traveled Al Foster has a lithe touch as a drummer, ideal for modern jazz and more than suitable for funk; his band consists of the tenor saxophonist Eli Degibri, the pianist Kevin Hays and the bassist Doug Weiss. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

HARRISON ON HARRISON (Tonight) On a recent album, the guitarist Joel Harrison interprets songs by a slightly more famous figure with the same surname, George Harrison. He repeats the same homage here, with David Binney on alto saxophone, Gary Versace on piano, Stephan Crump on bass and Ben Wittman on drums. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, Ext. 344, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

JON HENDRICKS (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Hendricks is the godfather of vocalese, and still irrepressible, though his voice has weathered over the years. On Tuesday he sits in with David Berger's Sultans of Swing; for the rest of the week he leads something called LHR Redux, in reference to his groundbreaking vocal trio Lambert, Hendricks and Ross. (You wonder whether he'll mention that Annie Ross, listed below, has her own gig downtown.) (Through Jan. 20.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN HOLLENBECK'S CLAUDIA QUINTET (Tomorrow) This improvising chamber ensemble pursues texturally oriented and often contrapuntal exploration; Mr. Hollenbeck's drumming is one color on a palette that also includes Chris Speed's clarinet and tenor saxophone, Ted Reichman's accordion, John Hebert's bass and Matt Moran's vibraphone. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* HANK JONES TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Jones, one of the most estimable pianists in postwar jazz, augments his stately trio with a pair of prominent guests: the trumpeter Roy Hargrove and the singer Roberta Gambarini. (Through Jan. 21.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

GEOFFREY KEEZER TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) A versatile post-bop piano trio, led by the articulate Geoffrey Keezer and featuring the bassist Tal Wilkenfeld and the drummer Terreon Gully. At 9:30 and 11:15, AC Pianocraft Showroom, 333 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 254-1840, acpianocraft.com; $20. (Chinen)

DANIEL LEVIN QUARTET (Monday) Daniel Levin, a cellist, makes music full of pregnant pauses and gradual crescendos. He has dynamic cohorts in Rob Brown on alto saxophone, Joe Morris on bass and Matt Moran on drums. At 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

DAVID LIEBMAN (Tonight) An incantatory saxophonist working in the post-Coltrane idiom, Mr. Liebman plays here with the bassist Ronan Guilfoyle and the drummer Tom Rainey. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

CHRIS LIGHTCAP QUINTET (Tonight) A bassist with credentials in both straight-ahead and experimental circles, Chris Lightcap fronts a group that effectively splits the difference: Chris Cheek and Tony Malaby on tenor saxophones, Jacob Sacks on Fender Rhodes piano and Ted Poor on drums. At 9 and 10:30, , Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

RENE MARIE (Tuesday through Thursday) A soulful jazz singer and vibrant performer with a growing book of sturdy original tunes. (Through Jan. 21.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

AARON PARKS QUARTET (Tomorrow) Aaron Parks, a precocious member of Terence Blanchard's groove-oriented band, leads his own working quartet with Mike Moreno on guitar, Derrick Hodge on bass and Kendrick Scott on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)

RE:ACTION (Wednesday) The bassist Sean Conly features his own compositions in this aptly titled band, with Tony Malaby and Michael Attias on saxophones and Take Toriyama on drums. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

ERIC REED QUARTET (Tonight) The pianist Eric Reed applies his trademark sophistication to the sound of a quartet featuring Stacey Dillard on tenor and soprano saxophones. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)

ANNIE ROSS (Tuesday) Ms. Ross has covered every inch of territory as a jazz singer, and yet she has her own style: supple, surefooted and knowing. She performs with a small group that includes Jon Weber on piano and Leroy Williams on drums. At 7 p.m., Metropolitan Room at Gotham, 34 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com; cover, $25, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

ANGELICA SANCHEZ/TONY MALABY/TOM RAINEY (Sunday) A collective trio that treads a middle ground between lyricism and abstraction, with Ms. Sanchez on piano, Mr. Malaby on saxophones and Mr. Rainey on drums. At 8:30 and 10 p.m., Jimmy's, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is that rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre. Her Tuesday night engagement features different players each week; this time around, the cast includes the clarinetist Doug Wieselman and the guitarist Steve Cardenas. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

TERELL STAFFORD (Tomorrow) Mr. Stafford, a bright and assertive trumpeter, previews material from his next album, ''New Beginnings'' (MaxJazz), with a quintet that includes Tim Warfield Jr. on saxophones, Bruce Barth at the piano, Derrick Hodge on bass and Dana Hall on drums. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)

LOREN STILLMAN AND TRIO ALTO (Thursday) ''Trio Alto Volume One'' (Steeplechase), the most recent album by the alto saxophonist Loren Stillman, suggests an explorer with one foot planted in tradition and the other caught in midstride. Mr. Stillman leads a different rhythm section here -- Sean Conly on bass and Take Toriyama on drums -- but his confident and probing approach should come across just fine. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* TERRASSON, OKEGWO, PARKER (Wednesday and Thursday) Throughout the latter half of the 1990s, the pianist Jacky Terrasson led one of jazz's fresher-sounding acoustic piano trios, distinguished not only by his fluid pianism but also by the resonant bass tone of Ugonna Okegwo and the pared-down percussive drive of Leon Parker. Last spring the trio regrouped as a collective, with uneven but deeply promising results. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

J. D. WALTER / REFUGE TRIO (Tomorrow) J. D. Walter's voice is a flexible instrument, given to soaring scat solos and growling burrs. Another expressive vocalist, Theo Bleckmann, leads the Refuge Trio, with Gary Versace on keyboards and John Hollenbeck on drums. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

* 'CONCRETE' (Wednesday and Thursday) Robert Ashley's operas have been compared to James Joyce's writing: the composer examines the ordinary world, and its language, by running it through the filters of his own creativity. ''Concrete,'' here in its world premiere, is billed as ''an old man's musing'' about people he has cared about. Mr. Ashley's orchestra will consist of computer samples that vary at each performance, and the singers will key their pitches and inflections to the sounds, creating music truly born of speech, with a conversational spontaneity. Many of the singers have worked with Mr. Ashley for decades, including Joan La Barbara, Jacqueline Humbert and Sam Ashley, the composer's son. (Through Jan. 21.) At 8 p.m., La MaMa Annex Theater, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $15 and $20. (Anne Midgette)

'THE FIRST EMPEROR' (Tomorrow) The excitement of a world premiere at the Met, combined with widespread interest among the general public in the composer Tan Dun, who won an Oscar for his film score to ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,'' have resulted in a sold-out run for ''The First Emperor.'' Though the story of Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of China, who unified the country through brutality and conquest, is compelling, Mr. Tan's ponderous score is a huge disappointment. There are gripping moments, especially some propulsive orchestra passages that incorporate Chinese instruments. But the opera's lyrical flights are slow-moving, ponderous and sometimes cloying. Mr. Tan has tried to meld Chinese melody and Italianate lyricism. His music, though, seems caught in some nowhere land between ''Crouching Tiger'' and Puccini's ''Turandot.'' Even the great Placido Domingo, bravely taking on the challenging title role, cannot save the show. The colorful production is by the Chinese film director Zhang Yimou (''House of Flying Daggers''). Mr. Tan conducts. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)

* 'MOSTLY OPERETTA' (Tonight, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) Once popular entertainment, today often presented as hackneyed spectacle, operetta deserves to be rehabilitated for the 21st century. At least, this is the premise of an ambitious festival at the Austrian Cultural Forum that presents both the familiar (excerpts from Lehar's ''Merry Widow'') and the less familiar (Lehar's little-known songs), sung by operetta specialists, with innovative, cutting-edge visuals by Victoria Coeln. Tonight's program (in English) is a salute to operettas that appeared on Broadway; Monday and Tuesday's is an all-Lehar program; and Thursday's juxtaposes Lehar and Kalman with less-known composers like Rudolf Friml and Leo Fall. Tonight at 8 (introductory lecture at 7); Monday, Tuesday and Thursday nights at 7; 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette)

NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS (Tonight through Sunday) When this troupe was founded by Albert Bergeret in 1974, it was one of a handful of small companies devoted to the Savoyard repertory in New York. Now it is the only one left, and its performances, with Mr. Bergeret still at the helm, and with casts well drilled in the style, are always a treat. Its current season includes two perennial favorites, ''The Mikado'' and ''Yeomen of the Guard,'' and the company can be counted on to bring their splendid silliness to life. ''The Mikado'' is tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m.; ''Yeomen of the Guard'' is tomorrow night at 8. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $40 to $96. (Allan Kozinn)

* 'OTELLO' (Wednesday) Rossini's 1816 version of ''Otello'' predates Verdi's great opera by more than 70 years. Choosing Shakespeare's complex play as a subject was a risky stroke for Rossini at the time. The Naples opera company that presented it forced the composer to tweak, soften and simplify the story. The first two acts are uneven. But the great third act, dominated by Rossini's noble music for the anguished Desdemona, struck the composer Meyerbeer as ''really godlike.'' The Opera Orchestra of New York is billing its concert performance as the first New York presentation of Rossini's work. In any event, the cast looks promising, with the soprano Ruxandra Donose as Desdemona and the tenor Robert McPherson as Iago. (The tenor Ramon Vargas was to have sung the title role, but dropped out because of illness; he is being replaced by Bruce Ford.) Eve Queler conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $125. (Tommasini)

'THE TENDER LAND' (Tomorrow and Sunday) In 1976, when the enterprising Bronx Opera Company first presented Copland's ''Tender Land,'' the composer participated in rehearsals and attended productions. For its current production, the company is using the effective chamber version of the orchestral score, arranged by Murry Sidlin. Royston Coppenger is the director. Elizabeth W. Scott conducts tomorrow, and Michael Spierman on Sunday. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Lovinger Theater, Lehman College, Bedford Park Boulevard West and Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, bronxopera.org; $15 to $30. (Tommasini)

'LE VILLI' (Tonight through Sunday) This opera, Puccini's first work for the stage, is a short tale of a trusting young woman from a Black Forest town in medieval Germany who is forsaken by her betrothed. When the grieving woman dies, her guilt-stricken fiance is subjected to supernatural justice. Though the score was deeply influenced by operatic styles of the day, Puccini's intensely lyrical and richly harmonic voice comes through. The adventurous Dicapo Opera Theater presents a choreographic production of this seldom-heard work on a double bill with a staged performance of Puccini's major sacred work, the ''Messa di Gloria.'' Francisco Bonnin conducts. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m., Dicapo Opera Theater, at St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-9438, dicapo.com; $47.50. (Tommasini)

'DIE ZAUBERFLOTE' (Tonight) This revival of Julie Taymor's production continues at the Metropolitan Opera, complete with the magical puppets and stage effects that made it an audience hit when it opened in 2004. James Levine conducts a cast that includes Lisa Milne as Pamina, Erika Miklosa as Queen of the Night, Matthew Polenzani as Tamino, Rodion Pogossov as Papageno, Eike Wilm Schulte as the Speaker and Morris Robinson as Sarastro. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $110 to $205 tickets remaining. (Vivien Schweitzer)

Classical Music

ISABEL BAYRAKDARIAN AND RUSSELL BRAUN (Sunday) Patriotism has brought the fine Canadian soprano Isabel Bayrakdarian and the light Canadian baritone Russell Braun together frequently before. But the motivation for this weekend's joint recital is the George London Foundation, which presents the two singers, together with their spouses, the pianists Carolyn Maule and Serouj Kradjian, in a program of Schumann, Schubert, Debussy and Pauline Viardot (whose songs Ms. Bayrakdarian has recorded, very well). At 4 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 877-6347, www.themorgan.org; $45; $30 for Morgan members. (Midgette)

CALEFAX (Sunday) The intimate chamber music hall at the Frick Collection has become a reliable place to discover soloists and ensembles who are new to New York but prove durable additions to the city's musical life. Calefax, a reed quintet from the Netherlands, makes its debut with an era-spanning program that runs from music by Ockeghem (born in 1410) through Sander Germanus (born in 1972). At 5 p.m., 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org; $25. (Kozinn)

CARNEGIE HALL FESTIVAL CHORUS (Tomorrow) Helmuth Rilling leads the Carnegie Hall Festival Chorus and the excellent Orchestra of St. Luke's in a performance of Bach's monumental ''St. Matthew Passion.'' The soloists are the tenor James Taylor, who sings the Evangelist; the bass Klaus Hager, who sings Jesus; the soprano Sibylla Rubens; the mezzo-soprano Ingeborg Danz; the tenor Thomas Cooley; and the bass Michael Nagy. At 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $82. (Schweitzer)

CHAMBERFEST (Tuesday through Thursday) ChamberFest is an appropriate name for this series of concerts, which showcase Juilliard students who have spent their final week of winter break in daily rehearsals and coaching sessions. The program on Tuesday includes Strauss's ''Till Eulenspiegels Lustige Streiche'' and Debussy's String Quartet; Wednesday night's concert includes Ravel's ''Introduction et Allegro'' and Brahms's Clarinet Trio, while on Thursday, works by Prokofiev, Brahms and Walton will be performed. At 8 p.m., Paul Hall, Juilliard School, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza, at 65th Street, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free. (Schweitzer)

* EIGHTH BLACKBIRD (Tonight and tomorrow) This inventive and energetic young new-music ensemble from Chicago has built its audience with eclectic programming and commissioning. It has also impressed listeners by playing complex scores by memory, a feat rarely seen in ensembles playing even much more familiar music. The group's program tonight includes works by Steve Mackey, Jennifer Higdon, Gordon Fitzell and David M. Gordon. Tomorrow it is performing as part of the closing concert of the Chamber Music America national conference. Tonight at 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $10. Tomorrow at 4 p.m., St. Luke's Lutheran Church, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 242-2022, chamber-music.org; free. (Kozinn)

ALLISON ELDREDGE (Tonight) This cellist, a faculty member at the New England Conservatory, performs Beethoven's Sonata in G minor (Op. 5, No. 2); Hindemith's Sonata; Brahms's Sonata in F; and Paganini's virtuoso Variations on One String on a Theme of Paganini. Max Levinson, her husband, is the pianist. At 8, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)

GUARNERI STRING QUARTET (Sunday) In its continuing campaign to make classical music available to all, the indispensable Peoples' Symphony Concerts, which offer leading artists and ensembles at very affordable prices, present the Guarneri String Quartet at Town Hall in a program of works by Haydn, Dohnanyi and Dvorak. At 2 p.m., 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $9 and $11. (Tommasini)

MET ORCHESTRA (Sunday) High in fiber, high in calories and generally high in content, the Met Orchestra's Carnegie Hall concerts are the Danny Meyer meals of classical music. They are long, satisfying and generally delectable, depending on the condition of the chef-conductor, James Levine. The program offers something for every taste, including the expected high-modernist course -- the premiere of ''Theologoumenon'' by Charles Wuorinen -- and the expected star soloist: the brilliant, rigorous violinist Christian Tetzlaff, playing the Beethoven concerto. But the main course is the Brahms Third. At 3 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $50 to $160. (Midgette)

NEW YORK COLLEGIUM (Tonight) Those favoring a reductive sweep of music history called Arnold Schoenberg and his contemporaries the Second Viennese school, the implication being that the thriving music world running roughly from Mozart through Beethoven and Schubert was the First. But what of Viennese music before that? The New York Collegium explores Baroque-era Viennese music, with works by Biber, Schmelzer and others who might prove worth a fresh look. At 8 (preconcert talk at 7), Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 717-9246, nycollegium.org; $30 to $60. (Kozinn)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow and Thursday) Zubin Mehta, music director of the Philharmonic from 1978 to 1991, returns to conduct the orchestra in Bruckner's Symphony No. 7. But the highlight of the evening is likely to be Alisa Weilerstein, a passionate and highly talented 24-year-old cellist, who makes her subscription debut with the orchestra, playing Elgar's intense Cello Concerto. On Thursday Riccardo Muti conducts a program including Scriabin's ''Divin Poeme'' and Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto, with the excellent Russian violinist Vadim Repin as soloist. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $28 to $96. (Schweitzer)

'SONGS OF PEACE AND WAR' (Wednesday) Delving into the song repertory to uncover surprising and pleasing nuggets, the New York Festival of Song has as much to teach singers as audiences. For their second collaboration with singers enrolled at the Juilliard School, the directors Steven Blier and Michael Barrett return to a program that originated in 2003, offering a range of songs, by composers from Shostakovich to Bob Dylan, on themes that remain all too timely. At 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Juilliard School, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, www .nyfos.org; free, but tickets are required. (Midgette)

TRIBUTE TO ARTURO TOSCANINI (Tuesday) The Symphonica Toscanini, founded last year in Rome, with Lorin Maazel as its music director, is introducing itself to New York in a collaboration with Mr. Maazel's other orchestra, the New York Philharmonic. The concert, billed as a tribute to the Italian orchestra's namesake on the 50th anniversary of his death, includes Strauss's ''Don Juan'' and Tchaikovsky's ''Francesca da Rimini,'' as well as arias by Cilea, Puccini and Rossini. Renee Fleming is the soloist. At 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $50 to $175. (Kozinn)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

CLARE BYRNE DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) Clare Byrne, a nicely quirky longtime presence in New York modern dance, describes her ''Rounds, the First Last Dance, or the Last First Dance, or an Ordination'' as calling up ''the doing-ness of dance.'' Uh-oh. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com; $20. (Jennifer Dunning)

CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Thursday) The company opens its winter season with a program of dance by Jacopo Godani of Italy, Edgar Zendejas of Mexico and New York's own Benoit-Swan Pouffer, who directs Cedar Lake. (Through Jan. 27.) At 8 p.m., Cedar Lake Theater, 547 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $30; $20 for 65+ and students with ID. (Dunning)

* Yoshiko Chuma & The School of Hard Knocks (Tuesday through Thursday) In her first appearance at Dance Theater Workshop since the 1980s, Yoshiko Chuma uses 15 musicians and dancers to explore the stories of artists living in Albania, Macedonia, Japan and the United States. Don't miss what should be a layered, evocative depiction of nations struggling amid war. (Through Jan. 20.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $15 and $25. (Claudia La Rocco)

COMPANY EAST (Tonight through Sunday) Hiroshi Jin's Company East makes its United States debut in a dance-theater production of ''Medea'' that incorporates elements of Noh theater, Western modern dance and karate stances. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

COMPLEXIONS CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) This company, founded in 1994 by Dwight Rhoden and Desmond Richardson, is notable for its wonderful dancers and, often, less-than-wonderful choreography. But this season looks promising, with a work by Mr. Rhoden to the music of Marvin Gaye; new pieces by Jodie Gates; and a solo for Mr. Richardson -- one of dance's true stars -- by Taye Diggs. Yes, that Taye Diggs. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $42; $32 for Joyce members. (Roslyn Sulcas)

* DANCE ON CAMERA FESTIVAL (Today and tomorrow) Presented by the Dance Films Association and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, this festival ranges more widely than ever, with nine dance programs created for the camera, documentaries and archival compilations. Other programs, at other locations, include a retrospective of work by Elaine Summers and discussions on editing and creating dance with a narrative. Today at 1, 3:30, 6:15 and 8:30 p.m.; tomorrow at 2 and 4 p.m., Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-3809, dancefilms.org; $10; $5 for 65+ and children 6 through 12. (Dunning)

JEAN ISAACS SAN DIEGO DANCE THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow night) This program includes a new piece by Jeffrey Gerodias, a former Alvin Ailey dancer, and four quartets to music by Steve Reich. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* Japanese Contemporary Dance Showcase (Tuesday through Thursday) If it's January in New York, it must be time for Japanese dance. For this event's 10th anniversary, the Japan Society has relocated to the Joyce. But the eclectic, pop-influenced sampler should be just as strange and beguiling as ever. Two programs feature work by Pappa Tarahumara, Kim Itoh & the Glorious Future, Leni-Basso and Noism07. (Through Jan. 21.) Tuesday through Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $30; $23 for members. (La Rocco)

* LOWER LIGHTS COLLECTIVE (Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday) Members of this multimedia group have worked with some pretty impressive people in dance. And how can you go wrong with a group that describes its collaborative process as ignoring one another while allowing for the subtle influence of what is seen out of the corner of the eye? In its new ''CRAM,'' the group will pour dance; a ''live horror film''; sound and noise installations; a ''living sculpture'' using potatoes as percussion; and an orchestra of instruments made from architectural salvage into every cranny of this space. (Through Jan. 20.) At 8 p.m., Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $15. (Dunning)

NETA DANCE COMPANY (Sunday) Produced by Neta Pulvermacher and Marisa Beatty, this second season of monthly dance-and-talk series, ''The A.W.A.R.D. Show,'' opens with a program featuring dance by Amanda Loulaki, Kiyoko Kashiwagi, Ming-Lung Yang and Mei-Yin Ng. The series, which runs through May 20, concludes with one participant receiving a $10,000 grant. At 7 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; free. (Dunning)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The last four performances of ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' with Wendy Whelan, Nikolaj Hubbe and Jennie Somogyi (Friday); Ashley Bouder, Benjamin Millepied and Amanda Hankes (Saturday matinee); Megan Fairchild, Joaquin De Luz and Ellen Bar (Saturday evening); and Sterling Hyltin, Jared Angle and Teresa Reichlen (Sunday matinee). Next week the company begins its controversial theme programming, beginning on Tuesday with ''Stravinsky and Balanchine: An Eternal Partnership'' (''Agon,'' ''Monumentum/Movements,'' ''Duo Concertant'' and ''Symphony in Three Movements''). The project continues on Wednesday and Thursday with ''Tradition and Innovation'' (George Balanchine's ''Mozartiana'' and ''Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No. 2,'' and Mauro Bigonzetti's ''In Vento''). Who knows? The selections may well encourage audiences to ruminate on these weighty conceits. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $20 to $95. (Dunning)

* PEAK PERFORMANCES @ MONTCLAIR: TRISHA BROWN (Thursday) Ms. Brown, now 70, celebrates her long and influential career in modern dance with a new work, ''I love my robots,'' that suggests that she is as innovative as ever. A collaboration with the visual artist Kenjiro Okazaki and the performance artist Laurie Anderson, ''robots'' will feature what Mr. Okazaki describes as two interactive ''sculptural apparitions.'' The evening also includes performances of Ms. Brown's 1983 ''Set and Reset'' and her 2005 ''how long does the subject linger on the edge of the volume?'' (Through Jan. 21.) At 7:30 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, 1 Normal Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org; $35. (Dunning)

LAURA PETERSON CHOREOGRAPHY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Peterson, who has danced with everyone from Risa Jaroslow to Poppo and the GoGo Boys, describes her new ''I Love Dan Flavin'' as a tongue-in-cheek futuristic dance with fluorescent light and pioneering techno music. (Through Jan. 27.) At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, Ext. 11, dixonplace.org; $12 to $15 or T.D.F. vouchers; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

Martine Pisani (Thursday) Three may be a crowd, but in ''Bande a Part'' (''Band of Outsiders''), four is a solo. The French choreographer Martine Pisani seeks to mold the work of four performers into one solo, a single performer at a time, while the rest of the ensemble looks on. (Through Jan. 21.) At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $15 or T.D.F. vouchers. (La Rocco)

VISION DANCE MUSIC SERIES (Tuesday through Thursday) This six-day festival has two to four shows a night featuring collaborations among dance and music artists like Sally Silvers, Baraka de Soleil and Gloria McLean. (Through Jan. 21.) At 7:30 p.m., Teatro La Tea @ Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681, visionfestival.org; $20 a night; $10 a night for students and 65+; $40 for three nights. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. Having delved into pearls, diamonds and amber, the museum applies its time-tested show-and-tell formula to gold. An astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples, larded with fascinating facts and tales, ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Roberta Smith)

China Institute: 'Shu,' through Feb. 24. This second installation of a two-part show glances back at the period of artistic expansion in the 1970s, and its contraction, after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Qiu Zhijie's photographic ''library,'' which papers the walls of the China Institute's main staircase, makes evident the information explosion in the 80s. Among the thousands of titles are Chinese classics, books on natural sciences and treatises by Plato, Disraeli and Harold Bloom. Such a trove might have been considered a treasure before Tiananmen Square; afterward, such resources became sources of angst. The figure that appears throughout Zhang Xiaogang's 1991 series ''Private Notes,'' for example, looks as if he is losing his mind -- and his head, torso and myriad other body parts -- as he struggles to write letters and decode illegible manuscripts. Without easy access to words, the images imply, there can be no such thing as free expression. 125 East 65th Street, (212) 744-8181, chinainstitute.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody)

Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'DESIGN LIFE NOW: NATIONAL DESIGN TRIENNIAL 2006,' through July 29. This ambitious show illuminates the volatile, contradictory and ever-expanding field, but fails to call it to order. The inclusions cover medical innovation, military hardware, frivolous reiterations of received ideas, sundry Web sites and magazines, haute couture, architecture and more varieties of recycling than you can easily count. The show coalesces into deliberately orchestrated skirmishes between conflicting principles and entities: corporate and private, decorative and essential. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, ndm.si.edu. (Smith)

* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'Spanish Painting from El Greco to Picasso, TIME, TRUTH, AND HISTORY' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. The big point is that Spanish art did not constantly reinvent itself over time. It was a bubble culture, sustained for centuries by its political and religious isolation and its national loner mindset. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

* THE METropolitan museum of art: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920s,' through Feb. 19. This show's 100 paintings and drawings are by 10 artists, among them George Grosz, Christian Schad, Rudolf Schlichter and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble. We look into the faces of forward-looking museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* THE MET: 'LOUIS COMFORT TIFFANY AND LAURELTON HALL -- AN ARTIST'S COUNTRY ESTATE,' through May 20. Laurelton Hall may have burned to the ground in 1957, but this exhibition does an excellent job of reassembling what remains of this extraordinary house-museum and its gardens, which Tiffany created for himself in the early 1900s. The Gilded Age opulence of the place, which occupied 580 acres overlooking Long Island Sound -- and of the Tiffany residences preceding it -- is conveyed most blatantly by the Temple-of-Dendur-size Daffodil Terrace, in wood, marble and glass. The main events are the glass windows, vases and lamps, where Tiffany's genius for color, love of the exotic and reverence for nature coalesce into an unforgettable mystical materialism. (See above.) (Smith)

* MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'SAUL STEINBERG: ILLUMINATIONS,' through March 4. Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker cover positioning Manhattan at the center of the world may be his best-known drawing, but he took on everything with visual puns, manic doodles, grandiloquent calligraphy and other inspired artifice. As this show of more than 100 drawings, collages and constructions goes on, Steinberg's progress is evident: from relatively simple cartoons like ''Feet on Chair'' (1946), in which a fellow reading a newspaper parks his feet on the seat of an ornate Victorian monstrosity, to complex comments on the state of the world, like ''Street War (Cadavre Exquisis)'' (about 1972-74), derived from news clips of postcolonial troubles in the Middle East and Africa. The flow of his work amazes. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Grace Glueck)

* MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'A CITY ON PAPER: SAUL STEINBERG'S NEW YORK,' through March 25. A very lively adjunct to the Morgan show, this smaller display of some 40 drawings focuses on New York. An architect, Steinberg was particularly attracted to edifices like the Chrysler Building, which appears here looming majestically over brownstones and in another incarnation, from a perspective directly below it, looking positively squat. New York people, in Steinberg's eyes, could be monuments, too. You may think you know Steinberg's work, but these shows make it new. 1220 Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Glueck)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Kiki Smith: A Gathering, 1980-2005,' through Feb. 11. Many things fly and float here: men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Holland Cotter)

Galleries: Chelsea

* SERGIO PREGO To take the fullest pleasure in this exhibition, you must stand perfectly still and quiet in front of ''Black Monday'' (2006), a single-channel video of still life photographs of con trolled fireworks explosions taken inside an abandoned factory in Bilbao, Spain. In all, the artist took more than a thousand photographs of 17 different explosions, using 40 cameras. He then scanned them into a computer, cropped them and ran them together to create the video. He also composed what he calls ''a sequencing of sounds,'' a series of repeating ambient electronic noises that serve as the soundtrack. The result is a multifaceted representation of something that is usually invisible to the eye: explosion clouds immobilized in time and space, forming immensely beautiful sculptural shapes. Lehmann Maupin Gallery, 540 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-2923, www.lehmannmaupin.com, through Feb 10. (Benjamin Genocchio)

Last Chance

* HENRY DARGER: THE VIVIAN GIRLS EMERGE Further proof that Henry Darger's epic art did not spring whole from a fevered outsider brain is provided by a cache of his early forays into image collecting and collage. Most spectacular is ''The Battle of Calverhine,'' a leathery, reliclike panorama of carefully knit and hand-tinted found images. It teems with all things Darger (and not a little Pop) and has never been exhibited in this country. Andrew Edlin Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9723; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* CANDIDA HOFER In large color photographs of the different galleries of the Louvre, taken on Tuesdays when the museum is closed, both the long, vaulted spaces and the painting and sculpture they contain speak of different times and styles. Equally affecting, if not a little frightening, is the lavish, timeless grandeur of these vistas. A palace that became a museum, the Louvre is also a precursor of the barrel-vaulted arcades that sprang up in Paris in the first half of the 19th century. Most of them are gone, but the Louvre's arcades live on. Sort of. Sonnabend Gallery, 536 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-1018; closes tomorrow(Smith)

NINA KATCHADOURIAN: 'OFFICE SEMAPHORE' Ms. Katchadourian has borrowed marine flag signaling techniques to create an interactive art project consisting of an old-fashioned tourist telescope installed at the corner of a plaza in the middle of the financial district, its lens trained on the window of an upper-floor office in a nearby skyscraper. Each day the man working in the office, or his assistant, arranges objects on his widow sill. The combination and order of the objects represent a specific message, which viewers down on the plaza can interpret using a key-chart on the telescope. 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, corner of Liberty and William Streets, Lower Manhattan; stairway entrance to the plaza is on William Street, at Cedar Street; www.publicartfund.org; closes on Sunday. (Genocchio)

* The MET: 'SEAN SCULLY: WALL OF LIGHT' The capacious, day-lighted mezzanine galleries at the Met are the perfect setting for Sean Scully's bold and energizing ''Wall of Light'' paintings from the series he started in 1998. These large-scale oils on canvas wow the viewer with their scale, intensity of color and sheer dominance of space. They are complemented by tiny independent watercolors that Mr. Scully sees as ''antidotes'' to the big ones. All have this in common: They are richly painted surfaces of close-laid vertical and horizontal bars (he calls them bricks), whose arrangement suggests constructed walls of stone. Although they appear totally abstract, with their all-over arrangements of bars that superficially vary only in color, size and juxtaposition, they evoke landscapes, people, events, the work of other artists. ''I'm trying to turn stone into light,'' Mr. Scully has said, and the more you look at them, the more filled with light and life they become. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org; closes on Monday. (Glueck)

HELEN MIRRA: BREAK CAMP This show of carefully composed, low-lying sculptures made from cut-up wood pallets has a smooth, almost Zen serenity, but its thoughtful brand of Post-Minimalism seems both precious and overly familiar, creating the impression of an engaging sensibility that could aim much higher. Peter Freeman Inc., 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-5154; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* Museum of Arts & Design: 'Simply DROOG: 10 + 3 YEARS OF CREATING DISCUSSION AND INNOVATION' . Droog Design, a many-headed, loosely affiliated collective of usually, but not entirely, Dutch designers and architects, has probably generated more discussion than innovation in its 13 years of existence. Presented in a free-flowing, Droog-designed layout, this show vigorously continues the process. It includes about 150 mostly domestic objects by scores of designers. Some are great, some are silly, some are Conceptual Art. But there is plenty to sink your teeth into, especially with help from the small free brochure containing label information and rationales for each item. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

* Moma: 'BRICE MARDEN: A RETROSPECTIVE OF PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS' This quietly magnificent 40-year retrospective pays tribute to an artist who helped rebuild painting in the 1970s, working back from the brink of single-panel monochromes to elegant tangles of thick line on vibrant monochrome grounds that encompass a tremendous emotional range and sense of physical energy, and give the lie to the idea that any art can be purely formal or completely abstract. Mr. Marden converted the rule-ridden zone of Minimalist abstraction into a capacious yet disciplined place, pushing it toward landscape, the figure and its roots in Abstract Expressionism and beyond, in non-Western art. And he may have saved the best for last. (212) 708-9400; closes on Monday. (Smith)

* P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'DEFAMATION OF CHARACTER' With 46 artists and a mix of usual and unusual suspects, this exhibition forms a black hole in which Dada, Fluxus, Punk, Pop, Conceptual and Neo-Conceptual mingle like cackling furies, along with Performance art, feminism, abject art and various forms of appropriation. While its dour tone becomes a bit relentless, it is admirably consistent and shows artists grappling with reality, which has its own kind of comfort. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)

P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'THE GOLD STANDARD' Gold is both color and subject in this glittering, pertinent show, installed on creamy yellow walls. Even though a generally dim view of contemporary society prevails, it is scary how good gold makes everything look. (See above.) Closes on Monday (Smith)

Sigmar Polke Painting is man's oldest conjuring trick, and Sigmar Polke is one of its reigning magicians. In this show, new paintings and those from the 1980s, all two-sided and painted with resin, surround a small selection of German Baroque amber (Bernstein is German for amber) jewelry and exquisite tchotchkes. The show simulates a Wunderkammer, a darkened wonder cabinet of the 17th or 18th century. The paintings, made translucent by the resin, nearly defy deciphering. Doodles and abstract splashes of white paint overlay murky washes of glowing resin on both sides of their membranous support, then cast dim shadows on the wall behind, so that the pictures seem suspended in midair, floating. Michael Werner Gallery, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623, www.michaelwerner.net; closes tomorrow (Kimmelman)

Queens Museum of Art: 'Queens International 2006: Everything All at Once' . The 52 artists and two collaboratives in this exhibition are natives of various regions of North America, as well as of Bosnia, China, India, Iran, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Peru and Venezuela. The only common ground, perhaps, is that they all live in Queens. Instead of arranging the work according to medium, ethnicity or generalized themes, the curators follow the edict of the exhibition's subtitle. The show tries to balance the interests of the art crowd and local residents. Sometimes these concerns dovetail nicely, as in Sophia Peer's quick-cut video ''Everyday,'' which shows her aging parents moving around their cramped home in Queens like latter-day, empty-nest Bunkers. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, www.queensmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Martha Schwendener)

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Clive Owen and Julianne Moore in ''Children of Men,'' an apocalyptic thriller set in 2027. Page 33. (Photo by Jaap Buitendijk/Universal Pictures)
DANCE -- Complexions Contemporary Ballet performs at the Joyce Theater this weekend. Page 35. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 ART -- Brice Marden's ''Bear Print'' is part of a retrospective at MoMA that closes on Monday. Page 35. (Photo by Peter Morton Collection/Artists Rights Society [ARS], New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); FAMILY (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); MUSIC (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); BALLET (71%); WRITERS (67%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



236 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: All About Ego, Showbiz And a Little Black Dress

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Blondes don't come any more toxic than Clea, the weapon of mass destruction accessorized with ''it'' bag and alpine heels who lays waste to a seemingly solid marriage in ''The Scene,'' Theresa Rebeck's sharp-witted, sharp-elbowed comedy about the savage economies of sex and show business in contemporary Manhattan. 
 As embodied by the talented young actress Anna Camp, the deceptively ditsy Clea is both thoroughly repellent and a glistening object of male fascination, a trophy wife waiting for her inevitable acquisition and inscription. Her poisonous aura permeates Ms. Rebeck's play much as that gaseous reek spread across the city earlier this week, causing a few swoons.
The hapless urban dweller whom Clea sends into a tailspin in ''The Scene,'' which opened last night at the Second Stage Theater in a high-octane production directed by Rebecca Taichman, is a chronically unemployed actor named Charlie. Played by the endearingly grumpy Tony Shalhoub, star of the television series ''Monk,'' Charlie is idling on the terrace at a party with his friend Lewis (Christopher Evan Welch) in the play's opening scene. They are shirking the obligatory networking duties that often seem to supplant the actual having of fun at many a local gathering when Planet Clea enters their orbit. 
 A recent refugee from Ohio, as she repeatedly and excitedly announces, Clea employs the language and syntax of a tween exchanging breathless gossip in the hallway at junior high, appending question marks and vocal crescendos to the most unprepossessing observations. (''I just got here, what, like, six months ago?''). But her vacuities occasionally have the peculiar ring of profundities (''How can you know so much and so little at the same time?'' Charlie will later observe of her), and the smirks that her nitwit effusions evoke on the faces of both men occasionally twist into leers.
 The official opinion, later retailed to Charlie's wife, Stella (Patricia Heaton), over shots of tequila: Clea's an idiot, a joke. (''She looks good in black and can't speak the English language,'' Stella retorts. ''She'll do just fine in Manhattan.'') But the restive libidinal impulses of men negotiating the encroaching (or settled) disappointments of middle age inspire Lewis, at least, to modify that assessment. Coining a vacuous profundity of his own, he says: ''She wasn't a moron. She's pretty.''
 That kernel of masculine (il)logic is emblematic of the wit and shrewdness of Ms. Rebeck's comedy, which updates a film-noir, femme-fatale story for today's Manhattan, where shadows and smoke have given way to the hard glare emitted by glass honeycombs of luxury condos. (Derek McLane's sets capture the variously glossy and funky flavors of four different urban habitats.) Ms. Rebeck's dialogue bristles with biting observations about the obsessions of aspiring New Yorkers who continually rub up against more successful versions of themselves. (''Rich people's apartments are so strangely comforting,'' Charlie forlornly observes.) 
 An experienced playwright who has also toiled in the television industry, Ms. Rebeck has intimate knowledge of the pathologies bred in smart, seemingly well-adjusted men and women by the surreal polarities of success and failure in the entertainment industries. (The word ''surreal,'' as it happens, has its own viral role in the lexicon of the play.)
 Charlie's and Stella's career tracks have diverged rather painfully in recent years, as it happens. She works 24/7, complaining, when she's not actually at the office, about her high-stress job booking talent on a talk show; he hasn't worked in a long time. In one of the play's most explosively funny scenes, Charlie barges in on Lewis's date with Clea after an ego-shredding lunch with an old friend, who now has the power to offer him a much-needed acting gig on his television pilot. The long monologue of rage, envy and mortification that Charlie unleashes, between generous swigs of vodka, rises to a hilarious climax with this piteous assessment of his ''friend's'' possible pilot: ''It is so bad, there actually is a possibility that they're going to make it.'' 
 Mr. Shalhoub, whose role as the gentle obsessive-compulsive on ''Monk'' doesn't allow much in the way of actorly extroversion, clearly relishes the chance to cut loose. His captivatingly raw performance is rich in physical comedy -- a gymnastic sex scene that practically puts Charlie in traction is priceless -- and in seething arias of vituperation freely expressed. In moments of anguished silence, Mr. Shalhoub also communicates the pathos in the character's susceptibility to the promise of escape from his thwarted life, even if self-assertion comes at the price of self-destruction. 
 As the bewildered Stella, who is powerless to prevent the emotional car wreck careering through her living room, Ms. Heaton (the ''Everybody Loves Raymond'' star) exudes an edgy intensity that rarely lets up. Ms. Camp, her wholesome beauty a perfect decoy for her character's sly manipulations, is a delightfully awful caricature of the night-crawling young women rampaging through bars and restaurants in little black dresses, baiting the variously bruised or bloated egos of men with the promise of some ego-stroking solace. 
 Mr. Welch has the quietest role -- Lewis mostly plays consoler in chief as his friends' lives implode -- but he gives a master class in the art of the baleful glare in one memorable sequence.
 Ms. Camp is the only member of the cast who appeared in the play's world premiere production, also directed by Ms. Taichman, at last year's Humana Festival of New American Plays at the Actors Theater of Louisville. She has raised the comic pitch of the performance a notch, possibly to match the intensity of Mr. Shalhoub and Ms. Heaton.
 Or have they pitched their performances to complement hers? Whatever the dynamic, the result is a less humane production than the one at Louisville, providing for a few narrative speed bumps. 
 But ''The Scene'' certainly makes up in forceful comedy what it may now lack in psychological nuance, and Ms. Rebeck's dark-hued morality tale contains enough fresh insights into the cultural landscape to freshen what is essentially a classic boy-meets-bad-girl story. The doomed Charlie is seen as both a victim of, and a symptom of, a morally corrupt culture.
 ''It's like we don't even know how to have a real desire anymore,'' he observes, flaying himself for his desperation to succeed in a business he has such contempt for. 
 In spheres both professional and sexual, former good guys like Charlie no longer aspire toward the things that bring fulfillment and satisfaction, but are seduced instead by the empty blandishments that have become the brands signifying success and worldly happiness: the hot blonde, the stratospheric paycheck, the limo and the access to the V.I.P. room. If you're walking on a red carpet, does it matter that it paves the way to hell? 

The Scene

By Theresa Rebeck; directed by Rebecca Taichman; sets by Derek McLane; costumes by Jeff Mahshie; lighting by Natasha Katz; sound by Martin Desjardins; production stage manager, Kelly Hance; stage manager, Shanna Spinello; associate artistic director, Christopher Burney; production manager, Jeff Wild. Presented by the Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director; Ellen Richard, executive director. At the Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422. Through Feb. 11. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes.

WITH: Anna Camp (Clea), Patricia Heaton (Stella), Tony Shalhoub (Charlie) and Christopher Evan Welch (Lewis).


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Scene -- Anna Camp as Clea and Tony Shalhoub as Charlie in the Second Stage Theater production of a new play by Theresa Rebeck. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 From left, Patricia Heaton, Christopher Evan Welch and Tony Shalhoub in ''The Scene,'' by Theresa Rebeck. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); FILM (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); FILM GENRES (72%); THEATER (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); REFUGEES (51%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Second Stage Theater

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Theresa Rebeck; Anna Camp; Tony Shalhoub

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



237 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Falls Further, Gratifying Consumers More Than Investors

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Oil prices sank on Thursday to the lowest level in 19 months, providing potential relief to consumers. But investors in energy stocks may wish for a cold spell after they see the fourth-quarter earnings of their stocks in the next few weeks. 
 The prices of big energy companies have mostly been on a charge up the charts the last few years, as oil prices more than tripled since the beginning of the decade, to about $77 a barrel at one point in July. 
But with oil prices sliding in recent weeks -- on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, crude oil for February delivery fell $2.14 a barrel, to $51.88 -- several Wall Street analysts are predicting that the large integrated companies, refiners and smaller independents will all report significant declines in profit. ''It's not going to be very pretty,'' said Fadel Gheit, senior energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''There will be no more record earnings.'' 
 Declining oil prices helped drive up the broader stock market, raising hopes that with inflation fears abating somewhat, the Federal Reserve may even consider lowering interest rates in the coming months. It was a turbulent day for energy traders, with the price of a barrel of oil opening just over $53, climbing at one point beyond $54, and then falling as low as $51.80. Traders who held large positions in oil futures dumped them, while speculators joined in short selling to take advantage of sliding prices. 
 ''Everyone is looking for the bottom,'' said Michael Rose, director of the energy trading desk at Angus Jackson in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ''But where is the bottom? Is it $50 a barrel, 40, 30? Nobody knows.'' 
 The president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Muhammad bin Dhaen al-Hamli of the United Arab Emirates, was said to have told the Emirates news agency that the group would move to prop up prices if necessary. ''OPEC will act to stabilize the market if needed,'' he was quoted as saying. 
 But few American analysts seemed to take his implied warning of possible future production cuts very seriously. ''We're looking at inventories that are very full,'' Mr. Rose said. ''Even if we have a cold snap, we have the reserves.''
 As for the major oil companies, predictions of disappointing earnings are based on a fall in the average spot price for benchmark crude oil to $60.06 a barrel last quarter from $70.56 the quarter before. And that slide came as OPEC announced two production cuts in two months at the end of last year. 
 The price dropped below $52 on Thursday for the first time since May 2005, a move all the more remarkable because it comes as Venezuela gains attention with talk of nationalizing energy and other industries, oil production in Nigeria is threatened by increasing violence, Iranian production is slipping and Russia sporadically cuts the flow to energy to other European nations. 
 Elsewhere, natural gas futures fell more than 6 percent amid an easing of demand and ample supplies.
 Most analysts say oil prices have declined in part because of the uncommonly warm weather until recently in much of the United States and Europe, and amid conservation efforts by business and consumers. 
 Although retail gasoline prices have dropped considerably since the summer, to a nationwide average just under $2.30 a gallon from just over $3, they have barely moved since the beginning of the year as crude oil fell further. Several energy companies have alerted investors that for the time being at least, their feast of riches is over. 
 ConocoPhillips announced last week that its refining and marketing margins for the fourth quarter might be down as much as 25 percent. Chevron, the second-largest American energy company, warned this week that it ''expects results in the fourth quarter to be adversely affected by lower commodity prices, lower downstream margins and lower refinery utilization attributable to planned maintenance and construction activities worldwide.''
 BP has reported that its daily oil production declined in the recent quarter to 3.82 million barrels from 4.02 million barrels. Part of BP's problems come from its inability so far to restart production at its giant Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico, which was damaged by hurricanes in 2005.
 Most of the big producers have been hurt by increased labor and service costs and by declines in oil and gas output in mature fields in North America and the North Sea. Many companies urgently need to modernize and otherwise reinvest in pipeline networks and refineries, and their increasing dependence on finding reserves in unstable areas like Venezuela and Nigeria creates higher security costs.
 In recent years, many of those problems were negated by the rising commodity prices of oil and gas, and by share buybacks which increased the value of their stock. 
 Analysts are divided whether the expected tail-off in energy earnings is temporary or longer-lasting. And while they acknowledge that future oil prices cannot be predicted, they say there is little sign of an immediate rebound, given that American inventories of crude oil are 7 percent higher than the five-year average of 315 million barrels reported by the Energy Department.
 ''I think this is a seasonal pullback,'' said Nicole Decker of Bear Stearns, who predicts a rebound in the spring. She said the current drop has pushed oil prices down to levels roughly equivalent to those at this time last year. 
 Mr. Gheit of Oppenheimer said he expected further pressure on oil prices. ''I see prices drifting lower, barring international crises,'' he said, but then quickly adding, ''I would not rule out $80 oil if we invade Iran.''
 On Wall Street Thursday, ConocoPhillips fell $2.71, or 4.2 percent, to $61.82; Chevron lost 72 cents, or just over 1 percent, ending at $68.69; and BP edged up 12 cents, to $61.59.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernie Ryan of MacFarlane Oil, a local dealer, dragging a hose to deliver home heating fuel in Newton, Mass. (Photo by Michael Fein/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Change in Direction'' show the near-month crude oil futures price, daily closes since July 2006.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); SPOT MARKET (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); EXPORT TRADE (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Finances; Refineries

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%) New York Mercantile Exchange

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



238 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Seven Hours in a Swirl of Jazz With a French Accent

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
The NYC Winter Jazzfest, now in its third year, carries off a small thing on a large scale. A profusion of small things, actually: well over a dozen separate acts in 40-minute sets, spread out over all three stages of the Knitting Factory. In essence the event conspires to produce the sensation, not common enough in New York jazz circles, of plunging into an enveloping atmosphere. All it asks of its patrons is a dash of curiosity, a dose of patience and the will to trudge repeatedly up and down several flights of stairs.
 What it asks of its artists is only slightly more complicated. At its root the Winter Jazzfest is an industry showcase, an opportunity to perform for the sort of person who might have a future booking in mind. So Wednesday night's seven-hour program was timed to coincide with the annual conference of the International Association for Jazz Education. (A separate edition of the festival, again at the Knitting Factory, is scheduled for Jan. 20, during the conference of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters.) 
The audience on Wednesday included a number of nonconference types -- the festival was open to the public and a relative bargain at $25 -- but an official feeling still prevailed. Because it was also planned in conjunction with the French Quarter Jazz Festival, a combined initiative of the jazz education conference, the French Embassy and an organization called CulturesFrance, the festival had a clear Francophonic streak. 
 Brice Rosenbloom, the festival's producer, balanced its competing agendas deftly. Grouping all the evening's artists under the all-purpose banner ''Jazz Alternatives,'' he delivered a solid banquet. If some of the program felt shopworn by New York standards, there was also an occasional whiff of something unfamiliar, imported from overseas. 
 The alto saxophonist Geraldine Laurent delivered the evening's most straightforward jazz set, and one of its pleasant surprises. Backed only by a bassist and a drummer, she played economical arrangements of bebop tunes, carrying the weight of propulsion with an appealingly roomy tone. Her version of Charles Mingus's ''Fables of Faubus'' employed swaying funk as well as rollicking swing.
 Some of the other European artists favored more contemporary grooves. Lucien Dubuis, a Swiss multireedist, covered the extended range of his bass clarinet -- from a low squawk to a piercing shriek -- during a trio set devoted to smirking funk. The pianist Antoine Herve, with Francois Moutin on bass and Louis Moutin on drums, focused on skittering odd-metered exercises. Another trio led by a pianist, Michel Reis, tempered its impressionism with mounting rhythmic suspense.
 Groove was a priority of the New York-based groups, too. The trumpeter Maurice Brown spiked his rousing quintet set with equal intimations of hard bop and R&B, while Gutbucket aimed for a kind of brash, lightheaded punk-jazz. A group called IsWhat?! delved into swaggering hip-hop territory. So Percussion, a post-Steve Reich chamber ensemble, spent a few minutes tending to an airy beat sequence that was like the acoustic translation of something off a Matthew Herbert album. 
 For a regular New York clubgoer, the festival presented some amusing dislocations. It was slightly odd to see Slavic Soul Party, a Balkan brass band that plays weekly at Barbes, unleash its frenzy in a bigger room. A group led by the guitarist Joel Harrison delivered the sort of surging fusion associated with the 55 Bar. And Lionel Loueke, a guitarist and singer, led a working trio that can be heard most often at the Jazz Gallery. 
 Mr. Loueke, with his fluid fingerpicking and percussive vocalizing, cast the festival's most engrossing spell. And his trio, on material like the stutter-stepping ''Benny's Tune,'' conveyed a distinctive interplay. Their stirrings were all the more rewarding for providing refuge from a concurrent performance by Mina Agossi, a singer seemingly intent on channeling all the sultriness of Eartha Kitt but none of her magnetism. 
 At times there were more difficult decisions to make. Two of the most compelling performances happened almost simultaneously: the alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa and the guitarist Liberty Ellman, each with a working group. Where Mr. Mahanthappa went for blowtorch intensity, Mr. Ellman employed a heady polyphonic cohesion. 
 The final group on the program was Wonderful World, a project of the pianist Guillaume de Chassy, the bassist Daniel Yvinec and the video artist Antoine Carlier. Their set -- delayed by the guest singer Mark Murphy, who briefly couldn't be located in the bowels of the club -- ended just shy of 2 a.m.
 Before that, an image by Mr. Carlier flashed on a video screen above the stage. It was a commercial airliner with ''Transatlantic'' printed on its fuselage. It was a convenient symbol for the evening, especially as the plane slowly sank into a bed of clouds. The festival left a similarly hazy impression after so many bustling hours.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Geraldine Laurent, top, and members of Slavic Soul Party at the Knitting Factory on Wednesday as part of the NYC Winter Jazzfest. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (85%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); MUSIC (66%) Music; Reviews; NYC Winter Jazzfest

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (55%)

PERSON: Nate Chinen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



239 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for Farm Bill Cuts, or Not

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
With a costly war in Iraq, mounting budget deficits and record-high crop prices, administration officials said this week that farmers should expect to receive smaller agricultural payments in this year's Farm Bill.
 But wait, say some Congressional leaders, who are clamoring for more dollars for farmers. More money is needed to accelerate research into biofuels like ethanol, which is considered crucial to reducing the country's reliance on imported oil and for buttressing the Midwest economy.
Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa who is the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said this week that energy would be a focus of this year's Farm Bill. On Wednesday, at the committee's first hearing since the November election, Mr. Harkin explored ways to move quickly past corn-based ethanol into ''cellulosic'' ethanol made from nonfood crops like switch grass. Such a move would help avoid the debate over the use of corn for fuel rather than food. Some economists are worried that higher commodity prices could soon lead to higher food prices. 
 ''There ought to be a little bump up'' in farm spending, Mr. Harkin said Wednesday. ''In 2001 and 2002 maybe farmers were in more trouble. But the nation is in trouble today. We now know that the pathway to the future is biofuels. What we really need to do is jumpstart this and push it, so we can cut down on the importation of foreign fuel.''
 Mr. Harkin's position could limit the potential for this year's Farm Bill to enhance the country's position in global trade talks. Farm subsidies have long been a bone of contention in the talks, with the United States, Europe and Japan clinging to farm supports that distort trade. In addition to direct payments, American farmers also receive ''countercyclical'' payments and ''loan deficiency'' payments that are paid when crop prices fall below a certain level. 
 Amid soaring crop prices, fueled in part by global droughts and rising demand for corn-based ethanol, subsidies are expected to drop by $7 billion this year, to about $13.5 billion. Agriculture officials expect demand for corn in particular to continue to be strong as dozens of ethanol plants come online this year. That will mean farm payments are expected to be lower for at least a few years.
 In this new environment, some trade specialists see an opportunity for Congress to cement those savings by lowering the financing structure. That could give the United States greater leverage in negotiations at the World Trade Organization, which remain stalled over agriculture payments. Whether Congress will vote to lower those ''baseline'' levels ''is the question that a lot of discussion and debate will be devoted to over the next 30 to 60 days,'' Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns said.
 Mr. Johanns said the Agriculture Department would propose a leaner farm bill later this month to reflect ''very stark'' differences between the situation facing farmers this year and in 2002, the year of the last bill. Before the 2002 farm bill, American agricultural exports had dropped for five consecutive years. Back then, Congress had a budget surplus and had been making emergency supplemental payments to a struggling farm sector. Congress ultimately allocated $7.4 billion more a year for farm programs, a 75 percent increase over projected spending for the 1996 Farm Bill.
 Today the agriculture sector's debt-to-asset ratio has fallen from 15 percent in 2002 to 11 percent, the best in recorded history, Mr. Johanns said. And the Agriculture Department is projecting $77 billion in farm exports next year, up from about $53.3 billion in 2002.
 More important, with budget deficits and the Iraq war, ''very definitely the budget will impact the writing of this farm bill,'' Mr. Johanns said. ''There is no way around it.''
 Congress is also expected to allocate more for conservation programs and for fruit and vegetable growers -- so-called specialty crops -- that are requesting billions of dollars in indirect payments to help their industries better compete globally.
 But no area is drawing more attention in this year's farm bill debate than energy. Congress is already floating several energy-related proposals that would provide tax credits to spur investment in cellulosic biomass, expand the national ethanol market by raising the renewable-fuel standards and make ethanol pumps more available to drivers.
 Since President Bush declared in last year's State of the Union address that America was ''addicted to oil,'' bipartisan support has surged for renewable fuels like ethanol. 
 Many experts believe that creating cellulosic ethanol from plant waste and other nonfood crops like switch grass will avoid concerns over using a growing amount of the American corn crop -- now 20 percent and climbing -- to make a renewable fuel that can substitute for gasoline. 
 The challenge remains less about technology than about efficiency. Specialists who testified at Wednesday's Senate hearing agreed that a gallon of cellulosic ethanol is still about twice as expensive to produce as a gallon of corn-based ethanol. And they said that making cellulosic ethanol on a commercially viable scale was still at least three to five years away.
 With corn remaining the crop of choice for ethanol production, some livestock producers are already complaining that higher corn prices, which nearly touched $4 a bushel in December, about twice what they were early last year, were increasing the cost of feeding cattle, hogs and chickens. About half of the country's corn is used to feed livestock. Hogs and chickens can consume only a portion of an ethanol byproduct that is meant to substitute for corn.
 The pork industry ''faces significant challenges because of the rapid rise in ethanol demand,'' Gene Gourley, an animal nutritionist from Webster, Iowa, told senators on Wednesday.
 Some in Congress are concerned as well. ''I fear continued price spikes will force some producers out of the business,'' said Saxby Chambliss, a Republican from Georgia and the ranking Republican on the Senate Agriculture Committee.
 Those higher prices could, over time, hit consumers, said Keith Collins, the Agriculture Department's chief economist. He said that an increase of $1 a bushel in the price of corn would increase the consumer price of pork by about 3 percent.
 With these concerns in mind, Mr. Harkin is among those in Congress who view farm bill spending as critical to maintaining the momentum of biofuels, which have reinvigorated rural economies.
 ''The demand for corn and for soybeans is going to be strong over the next few years,'' Mr. Harkin said. ''But it is nice to have a safety net. Those kinds of savings should be used to provide some transitional support for farmers to begin to grow some energy-related crops.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: About 20 percent of the American corn crop is currently used to make ethanol to replace gasoline. (Photo by Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (91%); ETHANOL (91%); BIOMASS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%) Agriculture; Energy and Power; Grain; Corn; Ethanol; Cellulose; Grass; Switch Grass; Law and Legislation; Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: MIKE JOHANNS (58%) Tom (Sen) Harkin; Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



240 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Fall To a 5-Month Low 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
The number of workers filing initial claims for unemployment benefits fell sharply last week, to the lowest level in more than five months. 
 The Labor Department reported Thursday that applications for jobless benefits dropped by 26,000, to 299,000, on a seasonally adjusted basis. It was the first time jobless claims had fallen below the 300,000 level since the week of July 22.
Analysts had expected a decline of 9,000. The larger decrease in applications seemed to be further evidence that the economic slowdown had not begun to affect the labor market seriously beyond industries like housing and auto manufacturing.
 But analysts cautioned against reading too much into the data, noting that jobless claims are difficult to interpret during holiday periods.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, in Valhalla, N.Y., predicted a big increase in claims in coming weeks as retail stores laid off temporary workers hired for the holidays.
 The four-week moving average of jobless claims, which helps smooth out volatility, edged down to 314,750, the lowest level since early November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); RETAILERS (51%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



241 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: In Bangladesh, State of Emergency and Election Delay 

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting from Dhaka, Bangladesh.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
The president of Bangladesh declared a state of emergency on Thursday evening, suspending certain fundamental rights, imposing a nighttime curfew, and effectively postponing elections that were scheduled to be held in less than two weeks. He then resigned as the chief of the caretaker government entrusted to run the vote. 
 An alliance of political parties had promised to boycott the elections, scheduled for Jan. 22. And in the past couple of days, as the nation of 140 million people sank deeper into political violence, virtually all international backing for the vote fell away. 
The president, Iajuddin Ahmed, said in a televised address in Dhaka on Thursday night that it would be impossible to hold elections that would be acceptable to all parties by the scheduled date. He referred specifically to the contention that the voters' list had been stuffed with 14 million fake names, one of the main grounds for the boycott.
 ''It's not possible to hold the elections on schedule,'' Mr. Ahmed said, according to The Associated Press. ''We need a flawless voter list to ensure that the elections are free, fair and credible.'' 
 Mr. Ahmed, who will retain the largely ceremonial presidency, said he would appoint an advisory council to conduct the elections at an unspecified date. The state news agency reported that he saw his resignation as being ''essential to keep the economy going and maintain law and order.''
 He had earlier insisted that the Constitution permitted no postponement of the elections. 
 Emergency rule paves the way for the army to take control of law and order and imposes new restrictions on the news media, measures that have not been applied in Bangladesh since the restoration of democracy 16 years ago. 
 The emergency declaration came a day after the United Nations suspended technical support for the coming elections, saying that they would not be ''considered credible or legitimate.'' Two teams of American election observers, as well as one that was to be dispatched by the European Union, also pulled out. 
 This week, an alliance of political parties, led by the former opposition Awami League, which had already said it would boycott the elections, announced that they would ''resist,'' which most Bangladeshis understood to be a barely concealed threat of violence. 
 The British Foreign Office issued a statement on Thursday urging both parties to compromise in an effort to produce elections that could be seen as ''credible, peaceful and universally accepted.'' Clashes between the police and political activists in recent days presaged further violence in the days before the elections. 
 The United Nations said in a statement on Wednesday, ''The United Nations is concerned that Bangladesh's democratic advances and international standing will be affected if the current crisis continues.''
 The country's two main leaders, Sheik Hasina Wazed, leader of the Awami League, and Khaleda Zia, both former prime ministers, have been battling each other for power since 1991, when they and their supporters restored democracy after nine years of military rule. Since then, they have fought bitterly for control of the government and together they have given their country a singular reputation for political violence.
 Mrs. Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist Party stepped down from power last October, when an interim caretaker government took over, with responsibility for running the elections. 
 The election process then became the heart of the controversy. Sheik Hasina's party accused Mrs. Zia's party of having stacked the election commission with partisans and stuffed the voter list with fake names. It also accused President Ahmed of being biased in favor of Mrs. Zia's alliance. Mrs. Zia's party, in turn, insisted that the elections could not be postponed, because the Constitution stipulated that they be held within 90 days of an interim government taking over. 
 Before the emergency order on Thursday, some of Mr. Ahmed's critics pressed him to be flexible and, for the sake of neutrality, to refer the matter to the Supreme Court. ''The Constitution is not the Koran in that it can't be changed,'' Syed Manzur Elahi, a prominent businessman and a member of two previous caretaker governments, said by telephone Thursday afternoon from Dhaka, the capital. 
 He said he feared for his country's standing in the world. ''As it is, we have an image problem,'' he added. ''This will multiply the problem.'' 
 The most dire warning came from the United Nations, which said Wednesday that any moves toward military rule could cost Bangladesh its handsome earnings from participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Bangladesh regularly contributes hefty numbers of troops.
 The statement read: ''Should the 22 January parliamentary elections proceed without participation of all major political parties, deployment of the armed forces in support of the election process raises questions. This may have implications for Bangladesh's future role in U.N. peacekeeping operations.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of a multiparty alliance at a rally in Dhaka demanded an overhaul of the election commission. International support has fallen away for Bangladeshi elections scheduled to be held in less than two weeks. (Photo by Rafiqur Rahman/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CURFEW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%) Elections; Politics and Government; Curfews; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: Somini Sengupta; Iajuddin (Pres) Ahmed

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (88%) BANGLADESH (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) Bangladesh

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



242 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Cars Clogging New York? Most Are From the City

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
It's a common enough thought among city drivers inching through traffic: Everyone around me came from the suburbs, making my life miserable. But it's wrong, because more than half the drivers who crowd into Manhattan each workday come from the five boroughs.
 That is only one fact about traffic in New York City that may surprise some people. For example, 35 percent of government workers drive to work, many because they have free parking. Also, one in five drivers entering the busiest parts of Manhattan are only passing through, on their way somewhere else.
 Finally, many drivers say that they simply prefer the convenience and solitude of their own vehicles and have found ways to get around the worst congestion.
 By examining a wealth of data collected by government agencies, a detailed and often surprising portrait of traffic in New York City emerges. 
 ''There's a lot of myths, and when you look at the data, the myths go pop, pop, pop, one by one,'' said Bruce Schaller, a transportation consultant who has studied regional traffic patterns. 
 Traffic, and competing proposals for what to do about it, will probably receive more attention in the coming months as the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg creates a plan to accommodate the city's expected growth over the next 25 years of one million more residents, many of them with cars.
 ''The fascinating thing about traffic,'' Mr. Schaller said, ''is there are so many different strands.''
 One of the most prevalent beliefs to crumble beneath the data might be called the suburban myth, the notion that suburbanites make up a majority of the commuters who drive to work in Manhattan. 
 Census data show that more city residents than suburbanites drive to work in Manhattan every day, according to Mr. Schaller. He estimated that 263,000 people in 19 counties in and around New York City drive regularly to jobs in Manhattan below 60th Street. Of those, 53 percent, or 141,000, live in the five boroughs, Mr. Schaller said. The greatest numbers are from Queens, with 51,300, and Brooklyn, with 33,400. About 23,900 auto commuters live in Manhattan, while 17,400 are from the Bronx and 15,200 from Staten Island. The suburban area with the most auto commuters to Manhattan is Nassau County, with 22,091 people driving to work in the borough, followed by Bergen County, with 19,975. 
 When plotted on a map, the data make a striking picture, showing that some of the densest concentrations of auto commuters are from the outer fringes of Queens and Brooklyn, where access to subways is limited.
 ''The concentration of auto commuters is in areas that don't have direct subway service,'' Mr. Schaller said. ''So the travel time advantage of driving is greater than it is in the rest of the city.''
 That applies to Dennis Alicea, of Bayside, Queens. Mr. Alicea, a banker for JPMorgan Chase & Company, drives from Bayside to Manhattan, where he first takes his daughter to school on the East Side. Then he leaves his car at a lot, which charges early arrivals about $10 a day for parking, and takes a bus to his office in Midtown. He said he typically arrives at work about one hour after leaving home. 
 To commute on public transportation, Mr. Alicea, 38, would have to take a bus from his home to the Long Island Rail Road station at Bayside, ride a train to Pennsylvania Station, then take a subway back to the East Side. ''You have to go into a stuffy, overcrowded train with people with attitudes,'' he said. ''I prefer driving for the peace of mind. It's much easier.'' 
 An annual survey conducted by the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, an association of government agencies involved in transportation planning, recorded 810,000 vehicles (not including buses) entering Manhattan below 60th Street on a single weekday in 2003. That figure has increased fairly steadily over the years, largely in line with changes in the city's economy and population. The 2003 count was 6 percent greater than 1993, when 760,000 vehicles were recorded, and 24 percent greater than 1978, when there were 649,000. 
 The number dropped after the terror attack in 2001 but has been rising since. Partial data released from the 2004 count show a total of 815,000 vehicles entering the area of Manhattan covered by the survey. 
 This data help bust another myth. ''A lot of people say, 'It's those Jersey drivers,' '' said Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association, a group that studies development and transportation issues. ''But when you look at the numbers, the Long Island sector is by far the largest sector where cars are coming from into the city.''
 According to the 2003 data, 110,000 vehicles entered Manhattan through the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels the day the survey was taken. An additional 63,000 were recorded driving south on the West Side Highway, and perhaps half of those might be considered to have come from New Jersey, across the George Washington Bridge, Mr. Zupan said. 
 Many other vehicles entering from the north come from a more dispersed area, including the Bronx, several northern counties and Connecticut. The largest number of vehicles, however -- 326,000, or 40 percent of the total -- entered Manhattan over the East River crossings, with their drivers mostly from Queens, Brooklyn and Long Island. 
 Mr. Schaller uses data from a computer model developed by the transportation council to estimate that about 80 percent of the vehicles in the hub-bound tally had destinations within the Manhattan core. 
 The model therefore suggests that almost one-fifth of the vehicles that entered Manhattan in the 2003 count, or about 156,000, were just passing through the borough. For many drivers, Manhattan is simply a place between here and there.
 ''The shortest way, distance-wise, is always to go through Manhattan,'' said Erick Lawson, a commercial diver who lives in Somerset, N.J., and frequently works on underwater construction jobs in Queens or on Long Island. 
 Early in the day, he often enjoys a smooth drive, well before the morning rush, through the Lincoln Tunnel and across 34th Street to the Midtown Tunnel. His homebound trip is a different story. 
 ''It's almost always a disaster,'' Mr. Lawson said, explaining that he frequently drives home across the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and through Staten Island to avoid Midtown. 
 Mr. Zupan pointed to data that show that while the overall number of vehicles entering during a 24-hour period has generally been rising, the number of vehicles entering from 7 to 10 a.m. has remained fairly steady. 
 ''You can't squeeze any more vehicles between 7 and 10 on the bridges and tunnels,'' he said. ''So that's constant and the growth we've seen is in off-peak travel.'' 
 John Lane, 26, a tattoo artist who lives in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, typically waits until after 11 a.m. to drive his 1963 Buick Skylark to work at Cutting Edge Body Arts in the West Village. 
 His routine allows him to skip the morning rush and arrive just as street-cleaning restrictions expire, so it is easy to park. He said his half-hour trip would take about the same time on the subway, but he prefers his car. ''I like to be in my own environment,'' Mr. Lane said. 
 A study conducted last year for the Partnership for New York City, a business group, cited 2000 census data that showed about 35 percent of government workers in Manhattan drive to work, compared with 14 percent for those who work in finance. Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the group, said that many city workers drive because they can park at no charge using parking placards obtained through their agencies. 
 The morning rush is dominated by cars carrying people to their jobs. But later in the day, the mix of vehicles on the streets of Manhattan includes more drivers who venture out for other reasons. 
 Andrea Hirshman lives in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, and she often drives her Mazda minivan into Manhattan to go to the theater, meet friends for dinner, attend events at her son's high school on East 29th Street, or visit her mother in Kips Bay. She lives a short walk from the subway but nearly always prefers to drive. 
 ''In the end you usually find that when you've finished what you're doing you have your car and you can zip home,'' said Ms. Hirschman, 49. ''You have much more mobility and I like it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Traffic congestion is typical along Park Avenue. More than half the people driving to and from work in Manhattan are not from the suburbs. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
A couple made the most of their time together while waiting for a stoplight to change on Canal Street near the Manhattan Bridge. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''Who Drives to Manhattan?''More than half the commuters who drive to jobs in Manhattan live in New York City, many of them on the fringes of Queens and Brooklyn where subway lines are scarce. Government workers are among the most likely to drive to work, often because their jobs come with free parking.Car commuters to jobs in Manhattan by industry sectorTransportation, warehousing, utilities: 36.1%Government: 35.1Construction: 33.3Educational, health/social services: 21.1Wholesale trade
 19.6Manufacturing: 15.2Retail trade: 15.2Arts, entertainment, food services: 14.1Finance: 14.0Information: 13.3Professional services: 11.9Average: 17.5%Note: Data for map are for commuters driving to Manhattan's Central Business District, defined as 60th Street and below. Map boundaries are census areas containing at least 100,000 people.Map of New Jersey and New York highlighting number of commuters to Manhattan by car.(Sources by HDR Decision Economics and Schaller Consulting analysis of 2000 census data)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MAYORS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CENSUS (70%) Roads and Traffic; Parking; Commuting; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) William Neuman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



243 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: In Surprise Move, British Bank Lifts Rate

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Heather Timmons reported from London and Carter Dougherty from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
The Bank of England surprised investors on Thursday and raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent, to head off rising inflation amid a boom in the housing market and strong economic growth. 
 Meanwhile, the European Central Bank, meeting in Frankfurt, left borrowing costs at a five-year high of 3.5 percent. But the bank hinted it could increase rates as early as March to guard against rising prices if Europe's economy continued to expand.
After a two-year slump, growth has been picking up steadily across much of the Continent, led by a recovery in Germany, the euro-zone's largest economy. The British economy has moved ahead even more rapidly, fueled by a housing market that helped the economy expand 2.7 percent in the third quarter, compared with the period a year earlier. 
 Home prices in Britain have surged 15 percent over the last two years, according to the Halifax House Price Index.
 Still, the decision by the Bank of England to raise rates -- bringing them to the same level as in the United States -- surprised investors who had said they believed the bank's most recent increase, which was in November, would be its last for a while. 
 The Bank of England has raised interest rates three times since August.
 One reason for such a view is that oil prices have eased in the last six months. Lower oil prices generally temper inflation by helping to trim prices on a range of consumer purchases, from gasoline to airplane seats. British Airways, for instance, said it was lowering some fuel surcharges as crude oil prices slid. 
 Meanwhile, the British pound has also been enjoying a run-up against the dollar, the euro and other major currencies. In New York trading, the pound was fetching $1.9447 Thursday; in early December, it hit $1.98. Traders expect the pound to cross $2 by the end of the quarter, a mark not seen since 1992. 
 ''It is likely that inflation will rise further above the target in the near term,'' the Bank of England's monetary policy committee said.
 The bank's move alarmed businesses and some economists in Britain, who said it could harm the economy and curb spending. Many British consumers have taken on substantial amounts of debt, including home mortgages and credit card borrowings. 
 ''This is an unnecessary blow,'' said the director general of the British Retail Consortium, Kevin Hawkins.The Bank of England has ''overreacted by stepping up the pace,'' said Holger Schmieding, an economist with Bank of America in London. The worst case scenario, he added, would be for the Bank of England to raise rates another quarter of a point in a few months, and ''realize too late they are overdoing it.''
 The European Central Bank has steadily been lifting rates, and it forecast Thursday that the European economy would expand at a reasonable pace in 2007, led by Germany, which grew in 2006 by 2.5 percent, more than double the rate in 2005. 
 For 2007, the economies of the 13 nations that share the euro are expected to expand at an average rate of about 2.6 percent.
 Although euro-zone inflation has fallen below the bank's goal of less than 2 percent for four consecutive months, the president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, warned the bank would lift rates again in March if companies pass on previous increases in energy prices to their customers, or if the price of oil, which has retreated recently, spikes again.
 ''I would say nothing here that would change expectations by the market that we could do something at the end of the first quarter,'' Mr. Trichet added. ''I would not contradict that.'' 
 The European Central Bank is responsible for setting euro interest rates and has ordered increases over the last year that some politicians have complained could put Europe's economic growth at risk.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, warned the bank would raise rates in March. (Photo by Torsten Silz/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) Interest Rates; Housing ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (73%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%) Bank of England 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%) Heather Timmons; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



244 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: A 2-Month White House Debate On Iraq, Capped by 'the Big Push'

BYLINE: This article is by Jim Rutenberg, David E. Sanger and Michael R. Gordon.; David S. Cloud contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Even before the November elections, President Bush and his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, were informally discussing what Mr. Hadley was calling ''the big push'' -- whether it made sense to make a show of increased American force in Baghdad to take back the city. 
 But when Mr. Hadley traveled to Iraq in late October, the commander there, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., repeated his frequent warning that to send more troops to Iraq could be counterproductive, because it might make the Iraqi government less likely to defend itself. By the time Mr. Bush met Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki in Jordan on Nov. 30, Mr. Maliki was insisting upon taking control over all Iraqi troops and urging the Americans to withdraw to the outskirts of his capital. 
Over the past two months those diametrically opposed options -- adding American troops, or pulling back to let the Iraqi factions fight it out -- marked the boundaries of a vigorous debate inside the Bush administration. At one point, as Mr. Bush, Mr. Hadley, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the newly appointed secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, weighed their options, the president asked his deputies, in effect: ''Why can't we just pull out of Baghdad and let the factions fight it out themselves?''
 Ultimately, the president and his advisers came back to the idea of adding American troops -- the new approach they concluded was the best of a series of difficult choices, according to a senior administration official involved in the process. 
 A narrative pieced together from interviews with participants and from public testimony suggests that through much of the process, generals who had been on the ground in Iraq during the past year had favored that the new strategy begin with a substantially smaller force than the one that President Bush announced to the nation on Wednesday night. In the end, it was Mr. Bush who appeared to drive his commanders along to the conclusion that more troops were needed. 
 In an appearance before Congress on Thursday, Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, confirmed that General Casey had requested only two new American brigades, about 9,000 troops, for Baghdad, along with three Iraqi brigades. The White House gave him five brigades. Gen. John P. Abizaid, who heads the Central Command, was opposed to any increase in American troop levels until mid-November, when he became convinced that the economic commitments by both Iraq and the United States made it worth adding troops. 
 White House officials were clearly sensitive on Thursday about any suggestions that the president countermanded his generals, and said his new plan had their full support. They said the generals sought and received assurances that the Iraqis would undertake political initiatives and end the practice of releasing militia figures who were friends of the government and captured by American or Iraqi forces. 
 In public comments before the elections, Mr. Bush resisted calls for troop increases from some of his own supporters, saying his generals saw no such need. During an interview session with conservative columnists in September, Mr. Bush said: ''If General Casey feels like he needs more troops, we'll send them,'' according to a transcript posted by The National Review. Asked by an interviewer, ''What if he's wrong?'' Mr. Bush shot back, ''Then I picked the wrong general.'' 
 Still far ahead of Election Day, Mr. Bush had decided to oust Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. Mr. Rumsfeld was seen by people inside and outside the administration as opposed to a major change. ''It was clear Rumsfeld was committed to the strategy that he had employed from the beginning,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said. Several officials inside and outside the administration said Mr. Rumsfeld's departure on Nov. 8 helped to empower Mr. Hadley, along with his deputy at the National Security Council, Jack D. Crouch, as they ran the review process inside the White House. Both said they considered many options. But Mr. Hadley was clearly focused on troop levels early on, suggesting in a Nov. 8 memorandum that the president should ask the Pentagon and General Casey to recommend whether more forces were needed in Baghdad. 
 Mr. Hadley believed from the start of the review that the administration's approach through much of 2006 -- that political reconciliation would lead to stability -- was not working. ''You have this Catch-22 element,'' Mr. Hadley said in a conversation in his office before he took his late-October trip to Baghdad. ''You can't have security without political and economic progress, but it's hard to have political and economic progress without security.''
 One senior official involved in the discussions said that Mr. Bush's instinct toward the start of the review process -- and that of others -- was to consider a withdrawal from Baghdad, allow Iraqi-vs.-Iraqi fighting to settle itself, and dedicate United States forces to focus on pursuing Qaeda fighters. ''As you peel that back and look at it, it just doesn't war-game out for you,'' said the official. ''You're supposed to go flying through Baghdad looking for Al Qaeda, and when you see ethnic cleansing going on look the other way?'' 
 In the end, the official said, Mr. Hadley's teams concluded that an American withdrawal from Baghdad would ''crater the government.'' 
 Another option discussed was to try to steer the Iraqi government toward a political realignment that would essentially depose Mr. Maliki, and put a stronger figure in place. By elimination, those discussions led Mr. Bush's top advisers back to the idea of a troop increase. According to an account by one senior official, General Pace traveled to Crawford, Tex., to meet with Mr. Bush after Christmas and took with him a recommendation calling for two more American brigades in Baghdad, with three more American brigades on call, along with two additional American battalions for Anbar.
 According to a senior administration official, Vice President Dick Cheney was among those who wanted a bigger force. Ultimately, Mr. Bush concluded that General Pace's initial request was too small and should be augmented by three more American brigades for Baghdad. General Pace said that General Abizaid, who is retiring this year, had opposed the idea of a troop increase. But General Abizaid came around, General Pace said, when he saw that the additional American combat forces would be accompanied by a ''political and economic surge.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



245 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Golden State Gamble

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
A few days ago. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger unveiled an ambitious plan to bring universal health insurance to California. And I'm of two minds about it. 
 On one side, it's very encouraging to see another Republican governor endorse the principle that all Americans are entitled to essential health care. Not long ago we were wondering whether the Bush administration would succeed in dismantling Social Security. Now we're discussing proposals for universal health care. What a difference two years makes!
And if California -- America's biggest state, with a higher-than-average percentage of uninsured residents -- can achieve universal coverage, so can the nation as a whole. 
 On the other side, Mr. Schwarzenegger's plan has serious flaws. Maybe those flaws could be fixed once the principle of universal coverage was established -- but there's also the chance that we would end up stuck with those flaws, the way we ended up stuck with a dysfunctional system of insurance tied to employment.
 Furthermore, in the end health care should be a federal responsibility. State-level plans should be seen as pilot projects, not substitutes for a national system. Otherwise, some states just won't do the right thing. Remember, almost 25 percent of Texans are uninsured. 
 To understand both what's right and what's wrong with Mr. Schwarzenegger's plan, let's compare what he's proposing with the plan he rejected. Last summer, the California Legislature passed a bill that would have created a single-payer health insurance system for the state -- that is, a system similar to Medicare, under which residents would have paid fees into a state fund, which would then have provided insurance to everyone. 
 But the governor vetoed that bill, which would have bypassed private insurance companies. He appears to sincerely want universal coverage, but he also wants to keep insurance companies in the loop. As a result, he came up with a plan that, like the failed Clinton health care plan of the early 1990s, is best described as a Rube Goldberg device -- a complicated, indirect way of achieving what a single-payer system would accomplish simply and directly. 
 There are three main reasons why many Americans lack health insurance. Some healthy people decide to save money and take their chances (and end up being treated in emergency rooms, at the public's expense, if their luck runs out); some people are too poor to afford coverage; some people can't get coverage, at least without paying exorbitant rates, because of pre-existing conditions. 
 Single-payer insurance solves all three problems at a stroke. The Schwarzenegger plan, by contrast, is a series of patches. It forces everyone to buy health insurance, whether they think they need it or not; it provides financial aid to low-income families, to help them bear the cost; and it imposes ''community rating'' on insurance companies, basically requiring them to sell insurance to everyone at the same price.
 As a result, the plan requires a much more intrusive government role than a single-payer system. Instead of reducing paperwork, the plan adds three new bureaucracies: one to police individuals to make sure they buy insurance, one to determine if they're poor enough to receive aid, and one to police insurers to make sure they don't discriminate against the unwell.
 The plan's supporters say that it would save money all the same. Those who are currently uninsured would receive preventive care, which is often cheaper than waiting until they show up in emergency rooms. Insurers would spend less money trying to weed out high-risk clients and more money actually paying for health care: the plan would require that insurers spend at least 85 percent of premiums on health care, considerably more than most of them do now.
 Still, why all the complexity? The smart, well-intentioned economists who devised the plan think they're being more politically realistic than single-payer advocates -- that it's necessary to placate the insurers. But that's what Bill and Hillary Clinton thought, too -- only to find that their plan's complexity confused the public, while the insurance industry went all-out to defeat it anyway.
 So am I for or against the Schwarzenegger plan? That's a tough question. As a practical matter, however, I suspect that the real question is what to do after the plan founders from its own complexity. And the answer is, damn the insurers -- full speed ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (62%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



246 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Shiite Radicalism Could Fuel Wider Violence, Official Warns

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
The nation's top intelligence official said Thursday that the spiraling violence in Iraq, along with Iran's ascendancy in the Middle East, had led to a rebirth of Shiite Islamic radicalism that could fuel sectarian violence and destabilize nations across the region. 
 In his annual presentation on the global threats facing the United States, the departing director of national intelligence, John D. Negroponte, spoke of the ''shadow'' that Iran was casting across the Middle East and warned members of Congress that Iran could be emboldened to dispatch Hezbollah operatives to attack American targets. 
Intelligence officials have long assumed that Iran's primary goal in Iraq was establishing a weak, but viable, state dominated by Shiites. But Mr. Negroponte suggested Thursday that Iran's steady arms shipments into Iraq, which American military officials say they have documented, and the political manipulation of Iraqi Shiite politicians could signal that Iran is trying to worsen the sectarian war and anarchy there, rather than seeking relative stability. 
 In a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, Mr. Negroponte also testified that Al Qaeda's ''resilient'' senior leadership continues to play a central planning role from remote hideouts in Pakistan. This conclusion about Al Qaeda reflects a shift in thinking among intelligence officials, who as recently as last summer had assessed that terrorist leaders like Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahri had become largely isolated from their network of supporters, reducing their role to being more inspirational than operational. 
 As have previous years' assessments, Mr. Negroponte said Al Qaeda remained the organization most capable of carrying out another devastating attack on American soil. But Thursday's testimony from Mr. Negroponte and other top intelligence officials showed a mounting concern about the threat of militant Shiite groups. 
 Mr. Negroponte cited Iran's burgeoning nuclear weapons program, its flood of oil revenue and Hezbollah's perceived victories against the Israeli Army last summer as signs that both Iran and its client terrorist organization could be interested in moving more aggressively around the globe. 
 ''As a result of last summer's hostilities, Hezbollah's self-confidence and hostility toward the United States as a supporter of Israel could cause the group to increase its contingency planning against United States' interests,'' Mr. Negroponte said.
 He offered no evidence to lawmakers that Hezbollah was planning any attacks.
 But committee Democrats, along with some of the Republican minority, chose to spend most of their time with the intelligence officials asking pointed questions about the new strategy for Iraq laid out by President Bush on Wednesday night.
 Echoing their colleagues at other hearings throughout the day, the lawmakers expressed deep skepticism that increasing the American troop presence in Iraq could halt the steadily escalating violence there. 
 ''I don't get the feasibility, I don't get the achievability, I don't get the sustainability,'' said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland. 
 The intelligence officials defended the new Iraq strategy, and Mr. Negroponte said it had a good chance of succeeding despite Iraq's ''precarious'' state.
 The Central Intelligence Agency director, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, said that so far the Iraqi government had fallen short in its efforts to halt sectarian violence. ''The track record of this government isn't one that would give you great confidence,'' General Hayden said. 
 The other intelligence officials who testified at the hearing were Lt. Gen. Michael D. Maples of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Robert S. Mueller III of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Randall M. Fort, who leads the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the State Department. 
 The officials agreed that the Iraq war had helped fuel Islamic radicalism around the globe and had most likely bolstered the recruiting efforts of Al Qaeda. 
 The takeover of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979 and the bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983 made Shiite radicalism a primary concern of American officials during the 1980s and much of the 1990s. It was not until the rise of Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda network in the mid-1990s that parallel concerns about Sunni extremism grew among intelligence officials and terrorism experts.
 But intelligence officials point to last February's bombing of the Golden Mosque in Samarra, a sacred Shiite shrine, as a watershed moment that stoked Shiite anger throughout the Middle East and set off a wave of reprisals against Sunnis inside Iraq.
 Mr. Negroponte said Thursday that governments across the region were concerned that the violence in Iraq could spill across the country's borders and embolden ethnic minorities to carry out attacks against majority sects. 
 He also warned of the successes that a resurgent Taliban is having in Afghanistan in its attempts to destabilize the government of President Hamid Karzai. 
 The intelligence chief said the Taliban ''probably'' does not directly threaten the viability of Mr. Karzai's government. At the same time, he said the Taliban is achieving more limited goals of impeding economic development in southern and eastern Afghanistan and undermining popular support for the government in Kabul.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John D. Negroponte, the intelligence chief, center, with C.I.A. Director Michael V. Hayden, left, at the Senate Intelligence Committee yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%) Islam; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); HEZBOLLAH (57%)

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (91%); MICHAEL HAYDEN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%) Mark Mazzetti; John D (Dir) Negroponte

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) Iraq; Middle East ; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



247 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Bush Threatens Veto of Medicare Drug Bill, but a Senator Is Seeking a Middle Ground

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush threatened on Thursday to veto legislation that would require the government to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to obtain lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. 
 But chances for passage of some version of the legislation increased when a pivotal figure, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said Congress should repeal a provision of the 2003 Medicare law that prohibits such negotiations.
The chairman, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said he did not favor price controls, but did believe that Medicare should be able to negotiate prices in ''discrete areas where seniors need our help the most.'' 
 House Democrats would go further, requiring the secretary of health and human services to negotiate the prices that may be charged for most drugs covered by Medicare.
 The House is scheduled to vote Friday on that proposal. While the Democratic bill is expected to pass, the White House announced the veto threat on Thursday in an effort to hold down the number of votes and to prevent the measure from gaining any more momentum.
 ''Government interference impedes competition, limits access to lifesaving drugs, reduces convenience for beneficiaries and ultimately increases costs to taxpayers, beneficiaries and all American citizens alike,'' the White House said in a written statement on the House bill.
 Mr. Baucus said he was seeking a middle ground between Republicans, who strongly support the existing ban on federal price negotiations, and House Democratic leaders, who want to require the secretary to negotiate.
 ''The total prohibition on negotiation should be eliminated,'' Mr. Baucus said after listening to two and a half hours of testimony from experts at a Finance Committee hearing. Mr. Baucus is acutely sensitive to public concern about drug prices because he is up for re-election in 2008.
 The debate over Medicare drug prices epitomizes the profound differences between the parties over the proper role of government in the nation's health care system. Democrats would prefer that government play a stronger role in guaranteeing access to care at lower prices. Many Republicans, on the other hand, say the market would work better if government got out of the way. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the Democratic proposals were ''a stalking horse for price controls.'' In seeking a larger federal role, he said, they remind him of the Clinton administration's ill-fated plan for universal insurance coverage.
 ''We have enough votes to sustain a veto,'' Mr. Grassley said. 
 Mr. Baucus and other Senate Democrats said the government should negotiate drug prices in a few, carefully selected areas where competition had not driven down prices. 
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said Mr. Baucus's position was highly significant. ''It paves the way for the possibility'' of giving the government the authority to negotiate, she said.
 On Wednesday, Ms. Snowe and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a bill that would repeal the ban on drug price negotiations. The bill would require Medicare to help negotiate contracts for a drug if the federal government had invested a substantial amount of money in its development.
 It would also require Medicare to negotiate contracts when a brand-name drug was available from only one manufacturer and no substitute or ''therapeutic equivalent'' was available. 
 Mr. Baucus said, ''For certain unique drugs, it seems that the prices are way too high.''
 But Richard G. Frank, a professor of health economics at Harvard, said that some of these drugs ''really make a difference in people's lives.'' The drugs may be expensive, Dr. Frank said, but imposing cost controls may pose ''particular risks to precisely the research and development that should be most encouraged.''
 The Congressional Research Service said that if the government negotiated lower drug prices for Medicare, pharmaceutical companies might respond by increasing prices for other buyers.
 ''While drug prices paid by Medicare beneficiaries may fall, overall drug prices may increase for other consumers, specifically for the under-65 population,'' the research agency said.
 The White House and drug manufacturers say Medicare is such a large buyer of prescription drugs that it could, in many cases, dictate prices. 
 Ms. Snowe and Mr. Wyden rejected that argument. Their bill says the secretary cannot set prices or establish a uniform list of covered drugs, known as a formulary.
 Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the chief sponsor of the bill requiring federal price negotiations, said Thursday, ''The purchasing power of more than 40 million Medicare beneficiaries will allow the secretary to achieve lower prescription drug prices.''
 But the Congressional Budget Office said the bill would have only ''a negligible effect on federal spending.'' Under the bill, it said, the government could not encourage Medicare beneficiaries to use particular drugs and therefore ''would lack the leverage to obtain significant discounts in negotiations with drug manufacturers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); VETO (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); STALKING (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%) Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Vetoes (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MAX BAUCUS (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); RON WYDEN (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Max (Sen) Baucus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



248 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: New York Loses Out to Denver in Quest for the '08 Democratic Convention 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and JOHN M. BRODER; Kirk Johnson reported from Denver, and John M. Broder from Washington. Dennis Carroll contributed reporting from Denver, and Diane Cardwell from New York

DATELINE: DENVER, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
The Democratic Party chose Denver over New York on Thursday as the site for its next national convention, capping months of debate about which city had better logistics, deeper pockets and a more compelling backdrop to frame the party's message.
 ''If we're going to have a national party, we're going to have to have Westerners vote for us on a consistent basis,'' the Democratic national chairman, Howard Dean, said in a telephone news conference. ''At the end of the day,'' Mr. Dean added, ''that's what tipped it to Denver.'' 
Denver economic development officials said that by one important measure, the convention, to be held Aug. 25-28, 2008, would be the biggest gathering in the city's history, with 35,000 people spending hundreds of millions of dollars on food, drink and places to sleep. 
 No national political convention has been held in Denver in nearly a century, since Democrats gathered here in 1908 and bestowed their presidential nomination on William Jennings Bryan, who went on to lose the election to William Howard Taft. But Western Democrats -- led by Senator Ken Salazar of Colorado, Mayor John W. Hickenlooper of Denver and the new Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada -- argued throughout their party's selection process that the shifting demographics of the region, where Democrats have made big gains, was a strong suit in Denver's bid.
 Yet if Democrats are stronger in the West, they are also probably more iconoclastic and diverse than ever, political experts say. That could make the party's Western venture less predictable, if not downright disharmonious. Many Western Democrats, like Senator Jon Tester of Montana, oppose tough restrictions on gun ownership; others, like Colorado's new governor, Bill Ritter, have voiced personal opposition to abortion.
 Five of the eight states in the interior West now have Democratic governors. The party picked up about 25 state legislative seats in November's elections as well, gaining ground in Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, Arizona, Colorado and Idaho, while suffering a net loss of seats to the Republicans only in Montana. The United States Senate swung to Democratic control partly on the shoulders of Mr. Tester, who defeated Senator Conrad Burns.
 ''The last few election cycles helped get the attention'' of the Democratic National Committee, the party's Colorado chairwoman, Pat Waak, said at a news conference here. ''It is a new Democrat that is out there, epitomized by what is happening in the West.''
 The Republicans, who will meet in Minneapolis-St. Paul to select their party's nominee the week after the Democratic convention, are expected to make a similar declaration: that the assumptions of the old political map are dead, meaning the traditionally Democratic upper Midwest has become a battleground too. Colorado last went for a Democratic presidential nominee in 1992, choosing Bill Clinton, while Minnesota last went Republican in 1972, for Richard M. Nixon.
 Supporters of Denver's bid said money and labor had been the two stickiest points in making the city's case. A host city needs to raise about $55 million to draw a national party convention, a tough proposition in a state with only 4.7 million people. And for a while, it appeared that concerns about the treatment of labor unions could also derail the city's hopes; Pepsi Center, the site of the convention, normally uses nonunion labor.
 Mr. Dean said in his news conference that the labor issues had not been fully resolved, even though he had dealt directly with John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Anna Berger, chairwoman of a rival labor group, the Change to Win Coalition. ''There are always labor issues with every convention,'' Mr. Dean said. ''We believe that these issues will be resolved.''
 Governor Ritter too said the labor matter was still being addressed, though he declined to provide details.
 In New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who in recent weeks had appeared to back away from his city's bid because of the costs of acting as host, said that he was disappointed with the outcome but that New York had other priorities, including raising money for the World Trade Center Memorial and for new antipoverty programs.
 ''Those are our priorities, a lot more than bringing a convention here,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters at a news conference in Brooklyn. ''I talked to a number of people, and I think generally most people agreed with me that it would be problematic to raise money now in this city. And, you know, Minneapolis and Denver will have to do it, but they haven't had conventions and it's important to them and I think they'll be able to do it.''
 At least one business owner here said he had known that the convention was coming. How? Because of a shirt.
 Steven Weill, who owns Rockmount Ranch Wear in downtown Denver -- shirts with snaps, dudes in chaps -- said someone in the ''inner circle'' of the selection process, whom he declined to identify, called several weeks ago to place an order. Denver, Mr. Weill decided then, was in.


GRAPHIC: Photos: As Mayor John W. Hickenlooper of Denver announced the choice, the word was also flashed by a news ticker near the reflected State Capitol. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); HISTORY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); FIREARMS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: JOHN HICKENLOOPER (88%); BILL RITTER (78%); KENT CONRAD (58%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JON TESTER (58%) Kirk Johnson; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Denver (Colo); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



249 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: New U.N. Chief Steps Gingerly Into the City

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail:haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Nobody mentioned parking tickets.
 Get a bunch of New Yorkers together with the city's No. 1 diplomat, and you figure that someone is bound to grouse that foreign consulates respect traffic laws about as much as Donald Trump and Rosie O'Donnell reflect quiet dignity. The diplomats-gone-wild parking complaint is a New York favorite.
But the subject never arose the other morning when Ban Ki-moon, the brand-new secretary general of the United Nations, broke bread with some prominent businesspeople and public figures. It's just as well. Diplomats and parking violations are truly old hat as a conversation piece. 
 Since a 2002 change in the rules, the number of summonses issued to foreign consulates and missions has shrunk by more than 90 percent. And when new tickets are handed out, very few go unpaid (although some diplo-deadbeats still refuse to settle their pre-2002 parking debt, put by the city's Finance Department at $18 million).
 Even if summonses are no longer a pressing topic, Mr. Ban had transportation on his mind during a breakfast with business leaders at the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
 He said he would encourage diplomats to follow the lead of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and take the subway -- never mind that he himself was driven to the Grand Hyatt. He also understood that some in New York ''have felt frustrations caused by some traffic jams or some behaviors by diplomats,'' he said in slightly imperfect English.
 All the same, he said, people ''should feel proud to have the United Nations headquarters in New York.'' Its presence here, he said, is a reason that the city can pound its chest as the self-proclaimed ''capital of the world.''
 The breakfast was something of a New York coming-out for Mr. Ban, 62, a South Korean career government official who replaced Kofi Annan on Jan. 1.
 This venture beyond the confines of his headquarters building was not exactly a visit to the neighborhood. He had a friendly -- not to mention cosseted -- audience, gathered by the Association for a Better New York and the Business Council for the United Nations. The once-independent council has been absorbed into the United Nations Association of the USA, a support group for the world organization.
 ''The United Nations and business need each other,'' Mr. Ban said. Some might say the same holds true for the United Nations and New York. A 2004 study by the city's Economic Development Corporation calculated that the organization generates 18,000 jobs and gives the local economy a $2.5 billion jolt.
 Through much of his talk, Mr. Ban tried a light touch. His jokes were hardly of the rolling-on-the-floor variety. But he showed flashes of being more than a staid career diplomat, and has some people wondering if the new secretary general intends to be more secretary than general.
 TAKE his family name. It is Ban, he said, not Moon, as some seem to think. And it is pronounced ''bahn,'' not ban, as in prohibition -- even if ''there are so many things to ban,'' he said, like weapons proliferation and disease.
 A question from William H. Luers, president of the United Nations Association, led Mr. Ban to acknowledge the obvious: that his organization is far from universally beloved in this city. That is true for reasons going well beyond parking tickets and traffic jams, from United Nations policies on Israel and Darfur to the oil-for-food scandal under Mr. Annan.
 Mayors periodically try scoring political points by thumping the United Nations, even urging it to get out of town. Mr. Bloomberg, however, is not in that camp. Neither is former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who said at the breakfast that he spoke up for the United Nations when some said its headquarters ''should be leveled and made a parking lot.''
 Mr. Dinkins got a laugh of his own with a nod to local political realities. ''I'll be for you or against you, whichever will help,'' he told Mr. Ban.
 For his part, the secretary general noted that he was ''not a stranger to New York.'' He was in the city for a while in 1975, representing the South Korean government, and happened to be back on Sept. 11, 2001, for United Nations-related work. So he was here at the depth of New York's worst fiscal crisis and at the bloodiest moment in its history.
 ''I have seen the city in its most challenging times,'' he said.
 That he has. New Yorkers can only hope this is nothing more than a coincidence, not a sign that the seemingly unassuming Mr. Ban is something of a Jonah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING OFFENSES (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (79%); DONALD TRUMP (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



250 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 965 words

 BODY:

EYES ON EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS -- Employment contracts like the one that gave Robert L. Nardelli a $210 million exit package from Home Depot have been blamed for virtually guaranteeing huge payouts even when an executive fails. [Page C1.] 


JURY ORDERS INSURER TO PAY -- A federal jury ordered State Farm insurance to pay a $2.5 million penalty for refusing to cover damages to a Mississippi couple's house that was destroyed in Hurricane Katrina, throwing into question settlement talks intended to resolve hundreds of lawsuits filed after the 2005 storm. [C1.]

I.R.S. DEALS ARE CRITICIZED -- Top officials at the Internal Revenue Service are pushing auditors to prematurely close tax audits of big companies with agreements to have them pay only a small fraction of the additional taxes that could be collected, according to dozens of I.R.S. employees who say that the policy is costing the government billions of dollars. [C1.]

BRIGHTER SKIES FOR AIRLINES -- W. Douglas Parker, below, the chief executive of US Airways, with a sunny disposition and a $10.3 billion takeover proposal for Delta Air Lines, has helped make the airline industry feel better about itself again. Dreary laments about sky-high fuel costs and fractious labor relations are being drowned out by the sweet murmurings of speculation as the industry regains a little glamour on Wall Street. [C1.]

CLASS-ACTION STATUS FOR BIAS SUIT -- A judge granted class-action status to a lawsuit filed on behalf of more than 700 female workers at Costco Wholesale claiming that the retailer had discriminated against women seeking jobs as managers. [C9.]

SMALLER PAYMENTS FOR FARMERS -- With a costly war in Iraq, mounting budget deficits and record-high crop prices, administration officials said that farmers should expect to receive smaller agricultural payments in this year's Farm Bill. But some lawmakers, many from farm states, say more money is needed to expand the production of biofuels. [C2]

GUILTY PLEA IN TAX SHELTER CASE -- A former accountant pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators as part of a widening criminal inquiry into questionable tax shelters. [C2.]

REDEFINING CONSUMER GADGETS -- Apple's new iPhone appears to be the clearest statement yet of what Steven P. Jobs's impact has been in the world of consumer electronics. It is not that he invents new technologies; he refines existing ones. [C3.]

OIL PRICES AT 19-MONTH LOW -- Oil prices sank to the lowest level in 19 months, providing potential relief to consumers. [C3.]

FED POLICY MAKER TO RETIRE -- The president of the Boston Federal Reserve Bank, Cathy E. Minehan, said that she would retire in 2007, adding to a list of vacancies among top Fed policy makers. [C3.]

VW EXECUTIVE STEPS DOWN -- Wolfgang Bernhard, the executive who pared costs at Volkswagen but angered its unions and chairman, will leave as part of a broad shake-up of its managing board. [C4.]

XBOX IN THE LEAD -- The Xbox 360 outsold the Wii, which outsold the PlayStation 3 during the crucial holiday season. [C4.]

DETECTIVE TO PLEAD GUILTY -- A former Hewlett-Packard private investigator is expected to plead guilty to federal charges that he posed as a reporter to get phone records for the company's internal investigation of boardroom leaks. [C7.]

RUSSIAN BILLIONAIRE DETAINED -- Mikhail Prokhorov, a billionaire often described as Russia's most-eligible bachelor, was detained during an investigation into a suspected international prostitution ring operating at an upscale ski resort, a French prosecutor said. [A6.]

BUSH THREATENS TO VETO DRUG BILL -- President Bush threatened to veto legislation that would require the government to negotiate with drug companies to obtain lower prices for Medicare beneficiaries. [A17.]

TOYOTAS IN LEADING ROLES -- Toyota is joining forced with the Speed Channel cable network to produce an unusual program in which the Toyota FJ Cruiser plays a starring role. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

'DE-BRANDING' CINGULAR -- One of the biggest ''de-brandings'' in advertising history is to begin Monday when AT&T, now the sole owner of Cingular Wireless, starts changing all Cingular marketing to adopt the AT&T name. [C6.]

BRISTOL-MYERS MAKES DEALS -- Four months after the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb all but announced that it was for sale, no suitor has emerged publicly. Instead, the company has entered several comparatively small deals, including one yesterday in which it announced a partnership with the British company AstraZeneca to develop two diabetes compounds. Market Place. [C3.]

MTV EXECUTIVE TO LEAVE -- In another management change at Viacom, Michael Wolf, the president and chief operating officer of the company's MTV Networks, is leaving. [C6.]

BANK OF ENGLAND RAISES RATES -- The Bank of England surprised investors by raising interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent, to head off rising inflation amid a boom in the housing market. [C7.]

DROP IN OIL PRICES LIFTS SHARES -- Investors regained some of their swagger, sending stocks higher after oil prices plunged and a drop in unemployment claims indicated that the economy was not slowing too quickly. [C9.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

Advanced Micro Devices warned that fourth-quarter revenue would miss estimates. (REUTERS)

Six Flags, the theme-park operator, struggling with falling attendance and a large debt load, said that it would sell 7 of its 30 North American parks for $312 million. (AP)

AirTran Holdings made a sweetened offer of about $345 million in cash and stock directly to shareholders of the Midwest Air Group, which rebuffed an earlier bid. (AP)

Samsung Electronics reported an 8.5 percent drop in its quarterly profit, hurt by lackluster shipments of flash memory chips. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Bristol-Myers Squibb shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LITIGATION (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); GUILTY PLEAS (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (85%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); VERDICTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); TAX AUDITS (74%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); BIOMASS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); JUDGES (70%); AUDITS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); GENDER EQUALITY (69%); BIOFUELS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (81%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (60%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); COST (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (79%); BOB NARDELLI (73%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



251 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Dominates World Politics, Not Markets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
As Washington squares off over Iraq, with President Bush warning of disaster if the United States withdraws and Democrats saying that another 20,000 troops will not reverse what has gone wrong, two questions come to mind:
 What if they are both right?
And why do investors appear to think both are wrong? 
 If both Mr. Bush and his Democratic critics are right, the issue now, as in the later stages of the Vietnam War, is not whether the United States will lose, but when, and at what ultimate cost. 
 That cost in lives and dollars will be measurable, but the longer-term damage to the world economy and to the stability and growth of the Middle East is far more difficult to assess.
 The second question, however, is the more interesting one, in large part because arguments about the economy and Iraq might as well be taking place in separate universes.
 As the new year begins on Wall Street, there has been a lot of market talk about the outlook for corporate profits -- good, if not as good as in recent years -- and about surprisingly strong world economies. 
 The Bank of England surprised investors yesterday by raising interest rates there, and Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, dropped another hint that he was not through with that bank's series of tightenings. A couple of months ago, futures market traders were confident the Federal Reserve was through raising rates; now they seem less certain.
 The risk that is endlessly debated concerns the American housing market and the impact it will have on spending. Will mortgage defaults skyrocket, or has the market hit a very soft bottom? At the moment, the consensus seems to lean to the optimistic side, but no one appears to think the ultimate answer has much to do with success or failure in Iraq.
 Financial markets around the world have done quite nicely during this war, and so far in 2007 the most notable market move has been a fall in the price of oil, which is not exactly an indication of worry about Mideast turmoil. Even Mr. Bush's saber-rattling toward Iran did not seem to concern oil traders.
 It was not always such. As the Vietnam War was grinding to its long end, financial markets around the world plunged. Commodity prices soared and Western economies went into recession. Defeat in a war seemed to signal the end of the American century, and to be somehow tied to a decline in American economic success. 
 But that analysis proved to be wrong. Notwithstanding all the talk of a domino effect, a Communist victory in Vietnam did not lead to the spread of Communism in Southeast Asia, nor did it prevent the collapse of the Soviet empire. And while the heirs of Ho Chi Minh still rule the land, they are as eager as any other government to produce cheap products for sale in Europe and the United States. Economic realities turned out to be more important than political ones.
 One reason Vietnam turned out to be so unimportant was that the calculations on why it was important were wrong. Vietnam exports nothing that the rest of the world desperately needs, let alone anything for which alternative sources are unavailable.
 It would be comforting to think Iraq was similarly overestimated in importance. But it does have oil, and chaos that continues to reduce Iraqi oil exports, let alone leads to the wider Middle Eastern instability that President Bush warned of Wednesday night, could devastate Western economies that have not developed alternative sources of energy.
 In the aftermath of the Soviet collapse, President Bush's father talked of a ''new world order'' in which there was but one superpower. International companies seemed to be able to go where they wished, with almost every country clamoring for investment.
 A decade and a half later, that is changing, and the war in Iraq is a major reason. A newly confident and powerful Russia is showing Europe the power of being able to close natural gas pipelines, and it has gotten the international oil companies to express gratitude even as it dictates harsher terms for deals signed years ago.
 At bottom, investors now act as if they believe that Iraq will be like Vietnam in a very important way: In the long run, it will have little real significance for the world economy. Let's hope that assessment is correct.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyndon B. Johnson grappled with the issues of the Vietnam War. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FUTURES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



252 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting Issue, U.N. Chief Clarifies Death-Penalty Stance

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Ban Ki-moon, the new secretary general, sought Thursday to change the impression he left in his first public utterance as United Nations head last week about his position on the death penalty.
 ''I recognize the growing trend in international law and in national practice towards a phasing out of the death penalty,'' Mr. Ban said in a statement at a news conference on Thursday, his first since taking office Jan. 1. ''I encourage that trend.''
 Mr. Ban, the mild-spoken former foreign minister of South Korea, made unaccustomed waves last Tuesday when he declined to criticize the death penalty applied to Saddam Hussein. 
 His comment appeared to contradict the longtime United Nations stance against the death penalty and put him at unwanted odds with his predecessor, Kofi Annan, who frequently cited his opposition to capital punishment on human rights grounds.
 After clarifying his position on Thursday, Mr. Ban told reporters, ''Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for letting me get that off my chest.''
 But in another instance of his early actions raising doubts, Mr. Ban was asked about reports that he had not conducted formal job interviews with some of his appointees to high-ranking management positions. He has said that tightening the United Nations' much criticized management would be a priority of his administration.
 He said that these were ''unsubstantiated misperceptions,'' and that he had relied on his own associations and conversations with the candidates and on discussions about their qualifications with others.
 ''I sincerely hope that instead of judging by what you heard from different sources that you will judge my appointments on the basis of merit and on the basis of their performance,'' he said.
 The three people mentioned were Asha-Rose Mtengeti-Migiro, the foreign minister of Tanzania, whom Mr. Ban chose as deputy secretary general; Alicia Barcena Ibarra of Mexico, Mr. Annan's chief of staff, who becomes under secretary general for management; and John Holmes, the British ambassador to France, who becomes under secretary for humanitarian affairs.
 Mr. Ban said he would be demanding ''performance targets'' of senior officials, which would be reviewed at the end of the year to measure their achievement.
 Asked if he would use a scheduled visit to the White House next week to ask President Bush to close the United States detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, he said he agreed with his predecessor, Mr. Annan, that it should be shut down. 
 He added that he believed Mr. Bush himself shared that objective. Mr. Ban declined to give his reaction to President Bush's announcement of new troop levels in Iraq. 
 ''Broadly speaking, however,'' he said, ''the United Nations would welcome genuine efforts to improve security for ordinary Iraqis as well as to stabilize the country through a combination of security, political and economic means.''
 The United Nations presence in Iraq was sharply cut back in 2003 after the bombing of its headquarters in Baghdad, which killed 22 people, including the mission chief, Sergio Vieira de Mello.
 Since then, the United Nations has provided assistance in drafting a constitution and organizing elections, two functions Mr. Ban referred to in answering a question about whether he planned to expand the current mission.
 ''We will continue to participate in that process as much as we can, but our participation and contribution at this time is largely dictated by the security situations on the ground,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ban Ki-moon, at his first news briefing as secretary general at United Nations headquarters yesterday, endorsed ending the death penalty. (Photo by Justin Lane/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); TERRORISM (59%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (51%) Capital Punishment; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (96%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (68%) Saddam Hussein; Ban Ki-Moon (Sec Gen); Warren Hoge

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CUBA (87%); FRANCE (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



253 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: In Baghdad, Bush Policy Is Met With Resentment

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and SABRINA TAVERNISE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Iraq's Shiite-led government offered only a grudging endorsement on Thursday of President Bush's proposal to deploy more than 20,000 additional troops in an effort to curb sectarian violence and regain control of Baghdad. The tepid response immediately raised questions about whether the government would make a good-faith effort to prosecute the new war plan. 
 The Iraqi leader, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, failed to appear at a news conference and avoided any public comment. He left the government's response to an official spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, who gave what amounted to a backhanded approval of the troop increase and emphasized that Iraqis, not Americans, would set the future course in the war.
Mr. Dabbagh said that the government's objective was to secure the eventual withdrawal of American troops, and that for that to be possible there had to be security for Iraqis. ''If this can be achieved by increasing either Iraqi or multinational forces,'' he added, ''the government, for sure, will not stand against it.'' 
 Mr. Dabbagh suggested that much about the Bush plan depended on how circumstances in Iraq would evolve over the coming months -- an echo, in its way, of senior Bush administration officials. They have implied that they might halt the month-by-month inflow of additional troops if they think Mr. Maliki is failing to meet the political and military benchmarks Mr. Bush identified as the Iraqi government's part in making the new war plan work.
 ''The plan can be developed according to the needs,'' Mr. Dabbagh said. Then he added tartly, ''What is suitable for our conditions in Iraq is what we decide, not what others decide for us.''
 The spokesman's remarks, and a similarly dyspeptic tone that was adopted by Shiite politicians with close ties to Mr. Maliki, pointed to the double-bind Mr. Bush finds himself in. Faced with low levels of public support for his new military push and a Democratic leadership in Congress that has said it will fight him over it, he also confronts the uncomfortable prospect of foot-dragging in Baghdad over the troop increases and the benchmarks he has set for the Iraqis.
 While senior officials in Washington have presented the new war plan as an American adaptation of proposals that were first put to Mr. Bush by Mr. Maliki when the two men met in the Jordanian capital of Amman in November, the picture that is emerging in Baghdad is quite different. What Mr. Maliki wanted, his officials say, was in at least one crucial respect the opposite of what Mr. Bush decided: a lowering of the American profile in the war, not the increase Mr. Bush has ordered.
 These Iraqi officials say Mr. Maliki, in the wake of Mr. Bush's setback in the Democratic sweep in November's midterm elections, demanded that American troops be pulled back to the periphery of Baghdad and that the war in the capital, at least, be handed to Iraqi troops. The demand was part of a broader impatience among the ruling Shiites to be relieved from American oversight so as to be able to fight and govern according to the dictates of Shiite politics, not according to strictures from Washington.
 What transpired, in Mr. Bush's speech on Wednesday night, appears to have been a hybrid: a plan that aims at marrying the Maliki government's urgency for a broader license to act with Mr. Bush's determination to make what American officials here see as a last-chance push for success in Iraq on American terms. And that, as Mr. Bush made clear on Wednesday, implies objectives that will be difficult -- many Iraqis say impossible -- to square with Mr. Maliki's goals.
 The differences seemed clear on Thursday as Iraqis responded to Mr. Bush's speech. In the streets of Baghdad, reactions followed, broadly, the familiar pattern in a city that is more and more divided on sectarian lines. Many Shiites said Iraq's own security forces, which are predominantly Shiite, should be left to do the job of stabilizing the city, while many Sunnis, shocked by the violence of Shiite death squads in recent months, said they would welcome the Americans if they could rein the sectarian killing in.
 Mr. Dabbagh, the government spokesman, emphasized the parts of the Bush plan that best suited the Maliki government's political ambitions. He said the ''good thing in this plan is that it determines that responsibility should be transferred from the Americans to the Iraqis.'' This was a prime point with Mr. Bush, too, when he said that the role of American troops under the new plan would be to ''help the Iraqis'' secure neighborhoods in Baghdad, protect the local population and maintain security in areas that American and Iraqi forces have cleared.
 Within hours of Mr. Bush's speech, American commanders were meeting with their Iraqi counterparts in Baghdad to work out the details of a new command arrangement that would give Mr. Maliki a direct role in overseeing the new crackdown. The Iraqis named a commander for the operation, Lt. Gen. Aboud Gambar, a Shiite from southern Iraq who was a top general in Saddam Hussein's army until the American-led invasion in 2003.
 General Gambar will report directly to Mr. Maliki, outside the chain of command that runs through the Defense Ministry, which the Maliki government has long viewed as a bastion of American influence, and, because the defense minister is a Sunni, of resistance to Shiite control. General Gambar will have two deputies, one for the heavily Shiite east part of Baghdad, another for the mostly Sunni west part, and they will oversee nine new military districts, each assigned an Iraqi brigade.
 As details of the Bush plan became known on Wednesday, Iraqi officials said that the new arrangements would give Iraqis operational control of the new push in Baghdad. But Mr. Dabbagh and others were quick to pull back on Thursday, acknowledging that Baghdad would remain under American operational control at least until later this year. American officials noted that American officers would be assigned to General Gambar's headquarters, that an American battalion would be twinned with each Iraqi brigade and that every Iraqi unit, down to the company level, would have American military advisers.
 If this fell a long way short of the plan for full Iraqi control in Baghdad that Mr. Maliki set out in November, his officials were at pains to say that the prime minister would decide the issue of most concern to the Iraqi leader: whether, and when, Iraqi and American forces would be allowed to move in force into Sadr City. That Shiite working-class district in northeast Baghdad is the stronghold of the Mahdi Army, the most powerful of the Shiite militias, and the main power base of Moktada al-Sadr, the Mahdi Army leader, whose parliamentary bloc sustains Mr. Maliki in office.
 ''It's been agreed that in order to succeed they have to consult,'' Mr. Dabbagh said -- a bland requirement as he stated it -- but some distance from the formula put forward at Washington briefings on the new plan. Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, at a news conference on Wednesday, said that American and Iraqi troops would be free to go into ''all parts of Baghdad, including Sadr City'' and that one benchmark in the plan was that there would be no ''political interference'' with military operations or attempts to protect death squad leaders.
 That appeared to be an allusion to the past American experience with Mr. Maliki, who has consistently refused to sanction major offensives in Sadr City. On at least one occasion, he intervened to secure the release of a man captured by American troops and identified by American commanders as a death squad leader with links to Mr. Sadr. Mr. Maliki's argument has been that the solution to the problem of militias, including Mr. Sadr's, must be political, not military, but he has simultaneously postponed any action on a new law to disarm and demobilize the militias.
 One of Mr. Maliki's political allies, Sheik Khalid al-Attiya, who is deputy speaker of the Iraqi Parliament, said Thursday that he expected the benchmarks set by Mr. Bush to take 6 to 12 months to be met. With American commanders in Baghdad saying they hope to have the main parts of the city stabilized by late summer -- allowing American troops to be pulled back to bases outside the city as Mr. Maliki has demanded -- the Americans seem likely to run out of patience with Mr. Maliki long before Mr. Attiya's timetable plays out.
 A Shiite political leader who has worked closely with the Americans in the past said the Bush benchmarks appeared to have been drawn up in the expectation that Mr. Maliki would not meet them. ''He cannot deliver the disarming of the militias,'' the politician said, asking that he not be named because he did not want to be seen as publicly criticizing the prime minister. ''He cannot deliver a good program for the economy and reconstruction. He cannot deliver on services. This is a matter of fact. There is a common understanding on the American side and the Iraqi side.''
 Views such as these -- increasingly common among the political class in Baghdad -- are often accompanied by predictions that Mr. Maliki will be forced out as the crisis over the militias builds. The Shiite politician who described him as incapable of disarming militias suggested he might resign; others have pointed to an American effort in recent weeks to line up a ''moderate front'' of Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish political leaders outside the government, and said that the front might be a vehicle for mounting a parliamentary coup against Mr. Maliki, with behind-the-scenes American support.

Hussein's Will Sought No Mercy
 CAIRO, Egypt, Jan. 11 (AP) -- Hours before Saddam Hussein's execution, the ousted Iraqi dictator asked his lawyers not to appeal for his life and accused the United States and Iran of collaborating to hang him, according to a copy of his will.
 Mr. Hussein gave his chief lawyer, Khalil al-Dulaimi, the right to ''decide whatever is related to me except appealing for the life of Saddam Hussein to any of the presidents, kings, Arabs or foreigners,'' reads a copy of the will obtained by The Associated Press.
 He also asked to be buried in either Ouja, his birthplace, or in Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, where many of the country's Sunni Arab insurgents are fighting, depending on his daughter Raghad's decision. He was buried in Ouja.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Iraqi government's response to plans by President Bush to deploy additional troops referred incorrectly to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's absence from the government's news conference. Mr. Maliki was never scheduled to speak; it was not that he ''failed to appear.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Each United States soldier in Ramadi, in western Iraq, must fill one sandbag before dinner, to be used as part of their defense against attacks. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images)
 Iraq's prime minister sent a spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, yesterday to address President Bush's latest policy. (Photo by Ahmad al-Rubaye/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%) John F Burns; Sabrina Tavernise; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); AMMAN, JORDAN (65%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); JORDAN (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



254 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; An Updraft For the Airlines; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Clouds? What Clouds? Chief of US Airways Is Into Silver Linings

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
A good mood can be infectious, and W. Douglas Parker, chief executive of US Airways, with a sunny disposition and a $10.5 billion takeover proposal for Delta Air Lines, has helped make the airline industry feel better about itself again.
 Gone for the moment are dreary laments about sky-high fuel costs, about fractious labor relations that can bring airlines to a virtual halt, and about the inevitable economic downturn that could very well plunge one or more of the thinly capitalized domestic carriers back into bankruptcy.
Indeed, the usual downer talk about airlines is being drowned out by the sweet murmurings of speculation, as an industry that for many reasons should be loathed by investors regains a little glamour on Wall Street. 
 Will Mr. Parker succeed in buying Delta and in carving out his promised $1.65 billion in cost savings, or will someone else pay even more? Will United Airlines and Continental Airlines, fearful of being left behind, also merge, and force a wholesale streamlining of the industry that might help smooth out the wrenching ups and downs of the past? 
 Mr. Parker, more than any other industry player, sparked this turnaround in sentiment with what appears to be a startlingly successful merger of the old US Airways, a carrier that was in bankruptcy twice since 2001, and his America West Airlines, a much smaller company that itself badly needed a cash infusion.
 He raised $866 million from outside investors, and brought the airlines together in time to catch an updraft in ticket pricing that has restored the industry to rare profitability. 
 US Airways' market capitalization now stands at $5.4 billion. Since the merger, its new shares have tripled in value from a first-day close of $20.21 on Sept. 29, 2005, to $61.20 on Thursday.
 ''We are the first post-Sept. 11 success story,'' said Jack Stephan, a captain and head of the union chapter that represents pilots from the old US Airways side. 
 It has not hurt, in navigating the merger, that ''Doug Parker is charming,'' Mr. Stephan added.
 Mr. Parker, 45 and boyish -- pilots and others call him Doogie, after the television teenage doctor ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' -- has, with a combination of self-deprecation and a quiet determination about the economics of mergers, made investors see airlines as a troubled industry that can be profitable instead of just a troubled industry.
 Delta is still in bankruptcy, recovering from years of missteps like entering into a costly pilots' contract just before the last downturn, and flying big planes on routes better served by smaller craft.
 But the price offered by US Airways puts Delta within $3 billion of the market value of Southwest, the lone big airline that has bragging rights for consistent profitability. A lot must keep going right for Delta, and much of the rest of the industry, to justify investors' confidence.
 ''Currently, the market is priced for perfection,'' said Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights. ''Investors have Doug Parker to thank.''
 Mr. Parker, in an interview at US Airways headquarters here, said the success of his initial merger -- and the market's embrace of the proposed Delta combination -- had nothing to do with superior management skills and everything to do with the savings from combining two airlines.
 ''We'd like to attribute it to management, but it's due to the merger,'' he said. When congratulated for sounding modest while arguing for the Delta combination, he smiled and declared, ''Just the sweet spot I was trying to hit.''
 In pursuing Delta before the earlier merger is completely integrated, Mr. Parker is trying to take advantage of Delta's stay in bankruptcy, where a company can jettison assets and obligations and reshape its operations more easily than outside bankruptcy. He is also moving on to the new target before negotiating more expensive labor contracts with US Airways workers, who gave up a lot to keep the airline in business.
 On the US Airways-America West merger, ''Doug threw the Hail Mary pass,'' the chief executive of a much larger airline said, admiringly. ''He's smart enough to know, 'I've got this really low cost structure, which is temporary. Because when these people storm the barracks, I'm going to have to appease them after what they've been through.' ''
 The merger of US Airways and America West remains a work in progress. The reservations systems operate separately, for the most part. The company still lacks an operating certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration to run the airlines as a single operation, so pilots and flight attendants remain bound to their old airlines (the certificate is expected this year). 
 And some of the merger steps have not gone well. An effort to combine the two carriers' Web sites led to weeks of malfunctions last year.
 But reducing the overlap in corporate staffs and grounding about 60 planes resulted in huge savings. At the same time, because many airlines were shrinking their fleets, US Airways was able to raise fares domestically by about 15 percent last year without a drop in traffic.
 For the first nine months of 2006, US Airways reported net income of $292 million on revenue of $8.77 billion. 
 The Delta proposal is also based on grounding planes -- about 10 percent of the combined fleet -- while maintaining the same level of traffic. The carriers' operations overlap through much of the Eastern states.
 Pilots and flight attendants at US Airways want higher pay in their new contracts to reflect the airline's success. ''Just because the company is making money doesn't make me happy,'' said Mike Flores, head of the chapter of the Association of Flight Attendants that represents workers at the old US Airways. ''I need to make money, too.''
 Lucy Mosby, a flight attendant in Charlotte, N.C., said she was paid $36,000 last year by US Airways. After two bankruptcies that involved worker concessions, ''I feel like I'm where I was when I started'' eight years ago, she said. ''I just picked up a part-time job. I do sales at Crate & Barrel.''
 To date, Mr. Parker has kept unions at US Airways from outright opposing the Delta takeover. He tells workers that the combination would make the companies more profitable, and thus more stable for employees.
 ''Given the track record of Parker and his team, I'd think he'd have a good idea of what's going to happen,'' said Gary Richardson, who heads the chapter of the Association of Flight Attendants representing workers from the old America West. 
 While Mr. Richardson is frustrated by the slow pace of negotiations, and wants a big pay increase for historically low-paid flight attendants at the airline, he remains a Parker admirer. ''He's a great guy,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''An incredible man.''
 Mr. Parker joined the airline industry right out of college, working first in finance at American Airlines and then Northwest Airlines before joining America West, where he was promoted to chief executive just 10 days before Sept. 11, 2001. The airline was nearly out of cash and survived only by securing the first government loan guarantee.
 Mr. Parker nonetheless went looking for acquisitions. He was outbid by Southwest for some assets of ATA Airlines. That left America West free to pursue much larger US Airways, which was teetering near liquidation, in 2005. 
 Though little known outside the industry, he was able to persuade investors that his young management team could run the merged airlines. 
 That takeover battle was so busy, he said, he wasn'table to run regularly. During this effort, he is making time to run to stay healthy.
 The good will he enjoys among many workers, including union officials, is in part because of the upward swing that America West and US Airways enjoyed shortly after he became chief executive.
 But it is also because of his manner. He steers away from management-speak, uses plain language and often discusses a situation from the other person's perspective. And he laughs easily at himself.
 His wife, Gwen, is a former flight attendant and union activist at American. And, as Mr. Parker said in an interview last year, if he comes home complaining that workers need to make concessions, ''it's not going to make for a nice evening at home.''
 Among airline executives, said Mr. Stephan, the pilots' union official, ''Doug is probably the closest thing to an airline guy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Douglas Parker, chief executive of US Airways, has helped the airline industry feel better about itself again. (Photo by Mark Peterman for The New York Times)Graph shows airline share prices since 2005. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MERGERS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



255 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: German Leader's Status Grows as Voice of Europe 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BERLIN, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
When Angela Merkel was sworn in 14 months ago as Germany's chancellor, the first woman to hold the post, she seemed less a phenomenon than a fluke -- squeaking into office amid predictions that her government would be hobbled by internal problems and might soon collapse.
 Now, with Britain and France in political flux and with Mrs. Merkel having forged a surprisingly warm relationship with President Bush, the 52-year-old chancellor has emerged as the leading political actor in Europe -- not to mention the go-to person in Europe for Washington.
It is no accident that when Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice wraps up a tour of the Middle East next week, her first stop will be Berlin, where she will brief Mrs. Merkel on efforts to revive the peace efforts in that region.
 On a visit to Washington last week, Mrs. Merkel won a pledge from Mr. Bush to focus more on the so-called quartet -- the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -- to promote peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. 
 ''This enables the European Union, as a whole, to take on responsibility, and we want to take on responsibility for the Middle East process,'' Mrs. Merkel said in an interview here Thursday.
 Mrs. Merkel's foray into the Middle East is one of several high-visibility initiatives by the chancellor as she assumes the rotating presidencies of the European Union and the Group of 8 industrial nations.
 At the top of her agenda, analysts here say, is reinvigorating the Atlantic alliance. Her first foreign trip after assuming the dual presidencies was to the White House, where she proposed creating a trans-Atlantic economic zone and pressed Mr. Bush on climate-change policies.
 ''I consider it my job to express to America what's in the interest of Europe,'' Mrs. Merkel said. ''And for me, the trans-Atlantic partnership, in general, is in the European interest. Europeans know that we cannot accomplish things without America,'' she continued, ''and on the other side, America must also know that Europe is needed in many areas.''
 Mrs. Merkel is getting a respectful hearing in Washington in part because she is the only leader of a big-three European nation likely to be around at the end of this year. Tony Blair of Britain and Jacques Chirac of France are in the waning months of their lengthy tenures.
 ''She's the big player in Europe right now,'' said Kurt Volker, the Bush administration's principal deputy assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs.
 The Bush administration, Mr. Volker said, views Mrs. Merkel as the ''anchor point'' for its dealings with the European Union on a host of issues, from constraining Iran's nuclear ambitions to responding to Russia's recent showdown with Belarus over natural gas shipments.
 After the rupture between the United States and much of Europe over the Iraq war, the Bush administration is also clearly relieved to find a German leader with whom it can have a civil relationship. Mrs. Merkel's predecessor, Gerhard Schroder, a strong opponent of the war, and Mr. Bush had little to say to each other after it began.
 Mr. Bush, who has met with Mrs. Merkel six times, regularly refers to her upbringing in the former East Germany, which they both affirm has given her a particular appreciation of freedom.
 To some extent, analysts say, Mrs. Merkel's strength is a corollary of Mr. Bush's weakness. There is a precedent for a German leader to act boldly during a time of trouble in the United States.
 ''Thirty-five years ago, Willy Brandt reacted to Watergate and Vietnam by taking the initiative with his Ostpolitik,'' said John C. Kornblum, a former American ambassador to Germany. ''Thirty-five years later, Merkel is doing the same thing with her own form of Westpolitik.''
 Mr. Volker, however, cautioned against concluding that Mrs. Merkel's rising influence would iron out all the differences between the United States and Europe. ''We have to be careful not to think this is a magic bullet,'' he said. ''There are limits to what anybody can do.''
 Indeed, Mrs. Merkel's boldest trans-Atlantic initiative -- for an economic zone comprising Europe and the United States -- has aroused little excitement in Washington, where the Bush administration is focused on salvaging the current Doha round of the global trade negotiations.
 Mrs. Merkel is also unlikely to change the stance of Germany or France on the Iraq war. She declined to comment on Mr. Bush's plan to commit more than 20,000 additional American troops to Iraq. ''Next time,'' she said with a smile, switching momentarily from German to English. 
 In general, Mrs. Merkel deflected questions about her enhanced status. Even the site of the meeting with a small group of correspondents -- a cramped conference room down the hall from her cavernous office facing the domed Reichstag building -- seemed calculated to avoid pretense.
 But she left no doubt she would push her ideas aggressively. Her trans-Atlantic economic proposal, which aims to harmonize American and European business regulations, is a case in point. ''In a world with rising economies like China, like India, like Latin America, we face completely different competition,'' she said. ''That suggests bundling our power, not falling back on protectionism, but bundling our power.''
 Mrs. Merkel expressed confidence that the United States had become more open-minded about policies to confront climate change, an issue she has put high on the Group of 8 agenda. Mr. Bush, in remarks after meeting Mrs. Merkel, said it was time to move beyond ''old, stale debates of the past.''
 Mrs. Merkel said: ''I see a greater readiness than in previous years to confront climate and climate change. And I see good possibilities for cooperation in the area of energy efficiency,'' as well as in biofuels.
 American officials said they admired Mrs. Merkel's stern warning to Russia concerning its recent standoff with Belarus over natural gas shipments. Mrs. Merkel has taken a more neutral line toward Russia than did Mr. Schroder, who took pride in his friendship with President Vladimir V. Putin.
 Asked if she seconded Mr. Schroder's assessment of Mr. Putin as a flawless democrat, she said: ''I have not yet said that, and would also not say it now. I use the phrase strategic partnership with Russia.''
 With Germany growing at its fastest clip in six years, Mrs. Merkel's government looks secure. The question, analysts here say, is whether she will have staying power on the global stage. Mrs. Merkel professes not to be worried. ''Fear,'' she said, ''is not a good political adviser.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: When Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany met with President Bush in Washington last week she tried to refocus Middle East peace efforts. (Photo by Evan F. Sisley/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%); TONY BLAIR (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%) Mark Landler; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) Europe; Great Britain; France; Germany

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007



256 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Loosen Up. Have Butter Pecan With Bordeaux

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
Andrew Sia wanted to find a sommelier who would lecture to his wine tasting club, but was not sure he could afford it. Then there was the matter of the ice cream.
 In addition to enjoying wine, Mr. Sia, 34, fancies making his own frozen sorbets and ice creams. Though it seemed to him a natural fit to pair the two, he suspected a wine consultant might not agree.
''Our first concern was that it was going to be stuffy,'' Mr. Sia said. ''We wanted this to be more of a party.''
 Hesitantly, he and his wife, Evangeline, approached Nancy's Wines for Food, a wine shop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. After meeting Jason Spingarn at Nancy's Wines, they quickly relaxed. Mr. Spingarn's easygoing demeanor was a relief, Mr. Sia said, and Mr. Spingarn immediately warmed to the challenge of a wine-ice cream matchup. Better yet, it would cost only $375 for 15 people -- far less than they had thought. 
 They tasted some wines and Mr. Spingarn eventually chose nine red, white, dessert and sparkling bottles for an October tasting at their TriBeCa loft. Mr. Spingarn would bring, for example, a German gewurztraminer to pair with Mr. Sia's pear-ginger sorbet and a New Zealand sauvignon blanc to go with his golden kiwi sorbet.
 ''I thought since Jason was on, we should do it,'' Mr. Sia said. ''How many times do you have a wine tasting with ice cream. He convinced me it was possible.'' 
 Wine tastings are not new, but they are changing drastically. Twenty years ago, a tasting was typically formal and the wines were masked, with tasters challenged to identify and assess them. But as wine has gone mainstream and the thirst for knowledge has expanded beyond the snobby set, tastings have loosened up. Wine is now considered a social event, something to center an evening on.
 ''Something weird happened and wine entered the popular culture in a very big way when 'Sex and the City' showed how chic it was to drink wine,'' said Sergio Esposito, founder and managing partner of Italian Wine Merchants.
 The change in tastings has paralleled a rise in wine consumption. About 33 percent of Americans now drink wine, up from 27 percent in 1992, according to the Gallup Organization. 
 Wine drinkers have increasingly sought ways to better understand what they drink. Web sites, books, classes and schools promise to transform everyday drinkers into aficionados without the fear of looking stupid. Restaurants, wine shops, moonlighting sommeliers and private wine consultants are leading classes and even holding events in private homes, making wine more accessible in a less threatening environment. 
 At Italian Wine Merchants, public wine tastings became so popular in 2001 that Mr. Esposito had trouble speaking above the din. Instead of the 20 to 50 serious wine enthusiasts he usually had, his tastings were regularly drawing a mix of collectors and people who were more interested in socializing and getting a date. He finally dropped them four years ago to focus exclusively on private events.
 Other stores and consultants have different agendas. For wine shops, private wine tastings are a good way to bring in customers and lift their bottom line since they typically pour only their own wine, in the hope the tasters will buy what they sample. As for consultants, it is a good way to attract corporate clients through good word of mouth.
 While private tastings require more commitment than dropping into your local shop for a slug of vino and a bit of chat, they can be almost anything -- a freewheeling introductory lecture at a party or a sampling of vintage Barolos. Prices range from $250 for a simple tasting to $5,000 for a catered sit-down dinner, and usually include the wine.
 As with its retail shop, Italian Wine Merchants limits the focus of its private events to the grapes, wines and wineries of Italy. Food is always included -- no surprise, seeing as the co-owner of the shop is the well-known New York chef Mario Batali -- with selections that go beyond humdrum cheese and crackers. The fare can include black-olive-encrusted lamb chops with string beans and roasted vegetables and linguini with clams. Prices are $1,500 to $17,500 depending on the size of the party. 
 A wine party is easy to have because the hosts do not have to do anything, unless they want to put out crackers or bread to absorb the alcohol. At Mr. Sia's tasting, guests brought a selection of cheeses, cured meats and bread. Mr. Spingarn brought glasses, tasting notes and the wine. 
 ''The only thing I had to do was clean the house and make ice cream,'' Mr. Sia said.
 Even those knowledgeable about wine can learn something at a tasting. Over the last two and a half years, Richard D. Parsons, chief of Time Warner, has turned to Italian Wine Merchants to be the host of private tastings for more than 30 friends, family and work colleagues. The theme might be an exploration of new wines and regions, perhaps a range of Amarones from Italy's best producers in the Veneto region, like Giuseppe Quintarelli and Romano Dal Forno. 
 Mr. Parsons is clearly knowledgeable when it comes to wine: Among his pursuits, he owns the Il Palazzone winery in Tuscany. And his tastings often include samplings of Brunello di Montalcino from his own property. 
 At private tastings, ''one has the opportunity to learn more specifics about a wine, its terroir, its winemaker and the vintage,'' Mr. Parsons wrote in an e-mail message. ''The dialogue is more intimate and most importantly, the wines can be tailored to my interests at that time.'' 
 Private tastings also often offer a chance to sample wines that might otherwise be budget-breakers or impossible to find. At Seastar Restaurant and Raw Bar in Bellevue, Wash., Erik Liedholm, the wine director, pours only ''the gold standard'' of wines at his classes. He says he wants his students to learn what really good wine tastes like so they have something to compare other wines against. At a recent tasting, he poured a cabernet sauvignon from the cult winery Leonetti Cellar that costs up to $120 -- if you can get it.
 Three years ago, Mr. Liedholm held tastings for customers eager to learn more. He initially started with the basics, but quickly noticed that his students were becoming increasingly sophisticated and asking probing questions. He fine-tuned the program and now discusses Washington State's wine regions and brings in local winemakers. The classes are $220 a quarter.
 Residents of Washington, D.C., can even hire a TV wine personality to lead an in-home tasting. Mark Phillips, executive director for the Wine Tasting Association, offers sit-down and blind tastings for as little as $15 a person. Mr. Phillips, who served as host last March on the PBS show ''Enjoying Wine With Mark Phillips,'' tries to break stereotypes -- perhaps throwing in a box wine to show people how good the wines have become. As with many wine consultants, he aims to show people a good time and teach them something in the process.
 It is important for a tasting to match the expertise and personality of those attending. Otherwise, they might grow bored or feel out of place. Acknowledging that, William Tisherman, the founder of Wine for All in Katonah, N. Y., tries to make wine more understandable. He has planned his tastings to include jokes and prizes, like cork key rings and soap bubbles in plastic miniature champagne bottles. He charges $40 to $75 a person and provides the wine. 
 ''I usually don't like to go off on a laundry list of flavors, like at most tastings,'' said Mr. Tisherman, the former editor of Wine Enthusiast magazine. ''I'm trying to put information in bite-sized pieces and make sure they're quick.''
 The most successful tastings are focused and informative, organizers say, without becoming bogged down in too much detail. For most, the event is primarily about having fun with family and friends.
 ''After a while, I'm not needed anymore,'' said Mr. Spingarn, recalling Mr. Sia's event. ''I stayed till 2 a.m. until all the ice cream was eaten and wine was drunk. That was a great wine tasting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, guests sample wine at a tasting at a salon in TriBeCa. The quest for knowledge about wine has grown. Successful wine tastings are focused and informative, organizers say, without becoming bogged down in too much detail. For many people, the event is primarily about having fun. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); FROZEN DESSERTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Kristina Shevory

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



257 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: China's 'Leninist Corporatism'

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL. 
Complete links are at nytimes.com/business. E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN Will Hutton started research on his book about China, he believed the country was on its way to creating a new kind of capitalism, one that could thrive without democracy or ''European enlightenment values.''
 He has changed his mind. In his new book, ''The Writing Is on the Wall,'' excerpted this week in The Guardian, he writes that ''the Chinese Communist party has become one of the most corrupt organizations the world has ever witnessed,'' and that China is ruled by a ''Leninist corporatism'' that threatens to unravel all the economic progress the country has made (guardian.co.uk).
China's ''giddy accomplishments'' over the last quarter-century are used to buttress the arguments of those in the West who say China's success can be attributed to its embrace of capitalism, as well as those who say that China is building ''a very particular economic model around what it describes as a socialist market economy.'' 
 Both arguments are wrong, Mr. Hutton now asserts. 
 The ''Leninist corporatism'' he describes is ''unstable, monumentally inefficient, dependent upon the expropriation of peasant savings on a grand scale, colossally unequal and ultimately unsustainable.'' 
 All of which will be to China's grave peril unless things change, he argues. The current economic structures can not be sustained, but neither can China afford to allow the government to be undermined -- because there is a very real danger that an even more oppressive government would take its place. If there is any hope, he writes, it lies in the current leadership changing, that is, embracing Western notions of democracy. 
 Mr. Hutton took part in a written debate with the economist Meghnad Desai run by Britain's Prospect magazine (prospect-magazine.co.uk).
 Mr. Desai wrote that Mr. Hutton had it right before he did his research. Capitalism ''has no unique path, nor does it require a liberal democratic infrastructure to flourish,'' he wrote. ''Japan's economic rise took place without a fully liberal infrastructure, and most European states, including Britain and Germany, were capitalist before they were democratic.''
 On the China-focused blog Peking Duck, ''Lisa'' wrote that Mr. Hutton, at least in the Guardian excerpts, ignores the fact that ''certain traditional Chinese values might be advantageous or even virtuous in the modern world'' (pekingduck.org).
 MILITARY JUSTICE -- This month, the blog Defense Tech reported that the addition of five words to a military-spending bill passed in October means that about 100,000 employees of American military contractors working in Iraq will now be governed by the Code of Military Justice (defensetech.org).
 The change, reported by Peter Warren Singer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, closed a legal loophole that, critics have complained, led to military personnel being harshly punished while civilian workers who committed the same acts were not punished at all. 
 The loophole drew outrage in 2004, when the Abu Ghraib scandal came to light. Military guards who abused prisoners faced criminal charges, but interrogators working for private contractors were not prosecuted. The code had previously applied to civilians only during a declared war, but the new law applies it to all personnel accompanying the military during a ''declared war or contingency operation.'' 
 INVESTING 101 -- Morningstar, the independent service that tracks mutual funds, offers an ''Investing Classroom'' for individual investors. It consists of 172 short courses on trading stocks, bonds and funds, as well as managing a portfolio (morningstar.com/Cover/Classroom.html).
 A CAPITAL IDEA -- Got an idea for a Web product? Bubbleprice is a tool that will calculate how much start-up capital the idea will be able to draw, based on your choices in a series of drop-down menus. For example, using the drop-down menus to create a business called VideoSpace, a ''roll-your-own peer-to-peer social network,'' would draw $1.2 million. DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (84%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (83%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BONDS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (62%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (62%); LEGISLATION (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); APPROPRIATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); CORRUPTION (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); United States Armament and Defense; Defense Contracts; Terrorism; Venture Capital ; Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; United States International Relations; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: Defensetech.org; Morningstar.com; Bubbleprice (Co)

PERSON: Will Hutton; Meghnad Desai; Peter Warren Singer; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%) China; Iraq; China

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



258 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: In Gadgets, Excitement Is in the Price 

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN. 
Email: yourmoney at nytimes.com

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Slumped on a bench at the end of the third day of the Consumer Electronics Show here, Ben Leet stared at a Sharp 108-inch flat-panel TV, the biggest television ever made, as he pondered what was remarkable about the thousands of products he saw. 
 ''Well, this thing is wow,'' said Mr. Leet, a senior consultant at DTC Worldwide, a British market research firm. ''Each year the TVs get better.''
Still, the size was really just an incremental expansion over last year. And Mr. Leet was hard pressed to come up with anything along the miles of displays of TVs, set-top boxes, DVD machines, appliances, and the like, that could be called startling or life changing. Indeed, no new feature-rich product stole the Consumer Electronics Show -- it seemed not to be aimed at ''first adopters,'' the guys down the street with the latest gadgets, but at the soccer moms with an eye for a bargain. ''It is going mainstream,'' Mr. Leet said.
 For consumer electronics makers, the faster pace of price-cutting seemed to be even more of an obsession than a revolutionary new device. 
 Certainly, Apple sucked the life out of the annual electronics party this week with an announcement at its own show in San Francisco of a sleek multidimensional cellphone that first adopters are sure to drool over. But, at least by one measure, the electronics industry has a lot to celebrate.
 Last year, manufacturers sold a record $146 billion worth of goods at wholesale in the United States. Sales in 2006 increased 13 percent from 2005, twice the average rate of growth. 
 ''That has not happened in the past 20 years,'' said Sean Wargo, an economist with the Consumer Electronics Association.
 The industry sold 160 percent more liquid-crystal-display TVs and 154 percent more global positioning satellite navigation systems.
 At the same time, however, prices for many products fell faster last year than the typical pace of decline. Big-screen plasma TVs dropped 32 percent, according to the association's economists. Competition pushed the average notebook computer price down 35 percent. The price of video players for cars fell 65 percent.
 Even as executives of the big manufacturers here insisted that the big drops would not happen again this year, consumers can expect to see more of the same. Demand remains strong, and the relentless competition is creating a paradise for shoppers, who have packed their homes with an average of 25 consumer electronic devices, twice as many as just a decade ago.
 In big-screen TVs, for example, ''As much as I say they won't fall as much,'' said Robert Scaglione, the senior vice president for marketing at Sharp's North American operations, ''I can only hope they won't.''
 Sharp Electronics is one of several TV makers adding capacity this year. Its new factories are more efficient. Sharp can produce six 52-inch flat-panels for L.C.D. televisions with the same amount of effort it took to produce just two of them in its older plant. Sharp said production of all sizes of flat-panels would double this year and then triple in 2008.
 Manufacturers, especially the smaller contract companies in Taiwan and China that make the panels for the lesser-known brands like Polaroid or Maxent, need to keep those factories running at full capacity and will cut prices to do so. 
 Vincent F. Sollitto Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Syntax-Brillian, takes advantage of that trend. In a luxury suite at the Las Vegas Hilton next to the convention center where the annual show was held, he explained how sales of the Olevia brand TVs doubled in 2006.
 ''A year ago, we were nobody,'' Mr. Sollitto said. But the company priced the TV sets 20 percent below those of the major manufacturers and, for a few days after Thanksgiving, outsold Sony three to one in Circuit City Stores. ''That's what we can do,'' he said. 
 ''We will be prepared for what is coming and that is very aggressive price reductions throughout the year,'' he said.
 It is a similar story for computers, a category that only 18 months ago many industry analysts considered to be a sleeper. But sales of notebook computers grew 64 percent last year. Craig Marking, a product manager for Toshiba, said Microsoft's release of a new operating system, Vista, will continue to stimulate demand. ''It creates the opportunity for higher average selling prices,'' he added. 
 He reasons that because Vista turns the PC into a multimedia entertainment device, the computer needs more memory and more sophisticated disk drives. 
 Once a putty-colored box for an office desk, the personal computer has been redesigned and is more often a sleek notebook, sometimes enrobed in shiny embossed carbon fiber. All those frills are supposed to entice consumers to pay more.
 But executives at a scrappy PC maker, Acer of Taiwan, do not think that will happen. They took market share away from Toshiba and Dell in 2006 and they want to get more this year. ''We sold 1.6 million last year; We will sell 3.2 million this year,'' said Rudi Schmidleithner, president of Acer's American operations. 
 Acer's strategy is to put the latest technology in a PC, for example, installing devices that enable the highest speeds over a wireless network. But instead of considering the computer a niche product for the top of the market and getting fat profit margins, it then prices the products for the mainstream and makes money on volume. ''We do not need the highest margins to run our business model,'' Mr. Schmidleithner said.
 That strategy ruins it for everyone else because the others have to lower prices if they do not want to lose market share. ''Part of Dell's problem is Acer,'' Mr. Schmidleithner suggested. Those discounts, of course, put a smile on the faces of consumers. 
 Navigation systems, meanwhile, that use information from global positioning satellites were another fast-selling product category last year. That came as a bit of a surprise as well because most of the direction-giving devices intended for cars sell for $600 to $1,200.
 Change is a afoot here, too. The barriers to entry are low. A G.P.S. device is a few generic semiconductors, a small L.C.D. screen and software. Garmin, an industry leader, has a gross profit margin of 50 percent. 
 Not surprisingly, more companies at the show were displaying navigation systems. Samsung Electronics, which claims just bested Sony as the No. 1 HDTV maker, has set its sights on this market. Increased competition can mean only one thing: prices are coming down. 
 The show was not about prices, of course, no matter how much they were discussed in meetings between retailers and manufacturers. The Consumer Electronics Show was supposed to be a showcase for retailers looking for the latest high-tech products that will lure consumers to the store. Watch for Powerline plugs that will use a home's existing wires to move digital content, including HDTV programs or movies, around the house. Loads of hand-held video players are coming, along with new digital cameras that offer even more automated functions to improve pictures. (Kodak hinted at a mode to remove the glow-eye from pet pictures.) 
 Some of those technologies will never catch on. At the show, the big debate continued to be about whether HD-DVD or Blu-ray would triumph as the standard for high-definition DVD players. LG Electronics offered a solution to reassure the hesitant consumer: a device that would play both kinds of discs.
 But at $1,200, the Super Multi Blue is only for that first adopter. (The first adopters would be better off buying a Toshiba HD-DVD player for $600 and a Sony PlayStation 3, which contains a Blu-ray drive, for $670 because then they get two players and a game machine.) Jun Dong-soo, the senior vice president for digital devices at Samsung, scoffed at LG's effort: ''Without an affordable price, I don't want to launch a dual format player.'' 
 The fear of making the wrong bet on technology, by the consumer and the manufacturer, led Whirlpool to come up with an innovative alternative to another LG product: the TV in the refrigerator door. What happens when the TV breaks or becomes obsolete? From a tiny meeting room tucked far in the back of one of the exhibition halls, the company showed consumer electronics makers a socket built into the top of a refrigerator's door from which any kind of device -- a TV, a tablet PC, a battery charger, a DVD player -- could be hung. 
 Whirlpool doesn't plan on charging consumers any more for a refrigerator with the special socket, which it calls Central Park. That way more consumers will buy it and the larger installed base will entice electronics makers, which will further increase demand for Central Park. 
 Matthew Newton, an innovation consultant at Whirlpool, said, ''We'd like to move as quickly as possible to get it into the mainstream market.'' It was a sentiment heard a lot at the show. 
 The follow-up: As the holiday shopping season began, Your Money outlined some online tools that can be used to find the best deals when retailers drop prices suddenly.
 As you well know, the prices continue to drop after the holidays. Take advantage of price-protection guarantees of the companies. They typically last for 30 days during which time the retailer will pay you the difference. But only if you notice the lower price and contact them.
 The Web site Refundplease.com helps you automatically track price changes at Amazon.com. There is the problem of making direct contact with Amazon's customer service. With a bit of sleuthing, Tim Noah, a writer for the online magazine Slate, found Amazon's customer service phone number. It is (800) 201-7575.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sharp's 108-inch flat-panel TV, above, is the biggest ever made. Whirlpool put a TV on a refrigerator door, and an auto in-dash navigation and entertainment system was displayed at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. (Photo by Steve Marcus/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 The Sony Reader, for storing and reading digital books, was on display at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week. (Photo by Rick Wilking/Reuters)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (93%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (61%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%) Electronics; Trade Shows and Fairs; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Electronics Show; Sales

PERSON: Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



259 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Last Month Surprised With Big Rise

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Retail sales were surprisingly strong last month as consumers snapped up large-screen TVs and other electronic products, a sign of economic resilience that poured cold water on the idea of interest rates dropping anytime soon.
 Retail sales rose by a larger-than-expected 0.9 percent in December and were even stronger than anticipated when autos were stripped out, suggesting consumers were willing to spend despite slowing housing markets, a Commerce Department report showed on Friday.
The seasonally adjusted December gain in retail sales, which covers the holiday shopping season, was the largest since July. Analysts polled by Reuters were expecting a 0.6 percent rise. 
 A 1 percent jump in sales aside from autos, considered a more reliable indicator of core household spending, was ahead of the 0.5 percent gain analysts were expecting. It was the sharpest climb since January of last year.
 Electronics and appliance stores posted a 3 percent gain in sales, propelled by high-end items like video game systems and plasma televisions.
 But November's sales data were revised down to a 0.6 percent gain over all from a previously reported 1 percent increase, and, with autos excluded, the gain was 0.7 percent, down from an earlier reported 1.1 percent.
 Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial, said that consumers were holding on despite the beating they are getting from home values and an inability to extract home equity values.
 Analysts said warm weather, lower gasoline prices and low unemployment spurred consumer enthusiasm.
 Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C., said: ''It seems that everything we heard about flat-screen television sets is certainly true. The possibility of a Fed rate cut in the first quarter has melted away along with everything else on the East Coast.''
 Another report released on Friday emphasized that some inflation risks remain. Prices of imported goods jumped a stronger-than-expected 1.1 percent in December, with much of the increase from higher petroleum costs. When oil was excluded, import prices rose a strong 0.4 percent.
 Retail sales for all of 2006 advanced by 6 percent from 2005, the smallest year-over-year gain since a 4.3 percent increase in 2003, the government said.
 Sales at auto and parts dealers were up 0.3 percent in December after a revised unchanged reading in November, which was originally reported as a 0.9 percent gain.
 Sales at gasoline stations rose 3.8 percent, while sales at furniture and home furnishing stores also increased.
 Sales at building material and garden supplies stores declined 1.1 percent, reflecting the housing slowdown.
 In a third report, the government reported that business inventories rose a higher-than-expected 0.4 percent in November as sales were up 0.5 percent.
 Total business inventories at manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers rose in November to a seasonally adjusted $1.368 trillion, the Commerce Department said.
 The rise in unsold stocks on hand was higher than the 0.3 percent increase expected from U.S. economists polled by Reuters ahead of the report.
 In November, total business sales rose to $1.051 trillion. According to the report, manufacturer's inventories rose 0.2 percent, to $481.9 billion, and wholesales' inventories rose 1.3 percent, to $396.7 billion.
 At auto and auto parts plants, however, they fell 1.3 percent, to $157.2 billion.
 November retail inventories were down 0.3 percent, to $489.6 billion.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks total retail and food services since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (79%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (79%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES & PARTS WHOLESALERS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); GAS STATIONS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); WHOLESALERS (67%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (53%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Weather ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



260 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; On Religion; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Black Churches Hungering for Musical Talent

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
In the early summer of 2005, the Rev. Douglas Slaughter went searching for a church musician to hire. He had all too much experience in such quests and their futility. During a dozen years as pastor of Second Baptist Church in Aiken, S.C., Mr. Slaughter had already gone through the recruitment routine four times.
 There was nothing the matter with his church. Second Baptist has 600 members and a $700,000 annual budget; it operates an elementary school, builds affordable homes and maintains a retreat site. And the musicians whom Mr. Slaughter had attracted in the past were amply talented, down to their bloodlines. One was the sister of the soprano Jessye Norman, another the sister of the jazz trombonist Wycliffe Gordon. 
The problem was keeping them full time on a church staff, serving essentially in a ministerial capacity, when they had so many other professional options like touring with jazz ensembles or directing summer concert series.
 Younger musicians, meanwhile, were products of the hip-hop era, far less fluent than their elders with not only the classic gospel of Thomas Dorsey but also the contemporary style introduced by James Cleveland and Edwin Hawkins in the 1960s.
 As Mr. Slaughter proceeded with his hunt over the succeeding 15 months -- buttonholing other pastors at the National Baptist Convention's annual meeting, using a church-music consultant to screen applicants, interviewing and auditioning about a dozen candidates without success -- he came to realize that what felt like his peculiar problem was actually endemic to the African-American church.
 ''Everywhere I went, it became part of the conversation,'' Mr. Slaughter recalled in a telephone interview. ''You can find people who will play. But to really put church first, to have that sense of calling, that sense of ministry -- that was the challenge. And when you don't have that, you can hear it in the worship experience.''
 Music has been an essential element of African-American religion from its very beginning, when slaves combined the call-and-response songs of their lost homelands with the Christian hymns they absorbed in bondage. The result was both a body of liberation music for themselves and a profound influence on popular music in the United States and beyond.
 With emancipation from slavery and the establishment of the major black Christian denominations, African-American churches relied on a steady stream of musical and religious talent.
 In the last generation, however, a variety of economic and artistic factors have interrupted this supply line. The emergence of rap music, which does not require a practitioner to sing or play any instrument, has reduced the number of African-American children skilled with keyboards and conversant with the gospel canon. Instrumental-music programs in public schools, which not only trained young people but also provided weekday employment to many church musicians, have been eviscerated by budget cuts and other classroom pursuits. 
 Meanwhile, the commercial market for gospel musicians has made the five-figure salaries and 24/7 hours of midsize churches seem unappealing, though many megachurches pay upward of $100,000.
 ''Musicians are going to the highest bidder because they can,'' said L. Stanley Davis, a former instructor in gospel music at DePaul and Northwestern Universities in metropolitan Chicago and a board member for the Stellar Awards, gospel's equivalent of the Grammys. ''The years when we celebrated ministers of music who served for 35 or 40 years are gone. For many, it was a commitment. It was a way of life. But for musicians 40 or younger, it's employment.''
 Anthony Heilbut, author of the definitive book ''The Gospel Sound: Good News and Bad Times,'' spoke of the oddly parallel evolution of hip-hop, with its materialistic worldview, and evangelical Christianity's increasingly popular strain of ''name it and claim it'' theology, which views wealth as a reward for righteousness.
 ''The music, the rituals, the protocols, the decorum of the black church, all of this has changed,'' Mr. Heilbut said. ''Modern church theology and hip-hop mesh uncomfortably well because both of them place a premium on Jesus and bling.
 ''And if you want to reach your audience, you have to give them the current sound. What you grew up with is what they'd call Old School. And that term itself is an extension of hip-hop. It's a patronizing term.''
 The effort to reconcile gospel and hip-hop has led, for example, to the veteran singer Shirley Caesar's recording several songs with Tonex, who is 30. In the aftermath of his arrest and indictment in 2002 on charges of soliciting a minor for child pornography, R. Kelly put out a putatively ''inspirational'' CD, ''Happy People/U Saved Me.'' Many churches have begun employing ''praise teams'' to lead the congregation in relatively simplistic, repetitive choruses.
 For pastors like Mr. Slaughter, the pursuit of traditional church music and musicians means taking their sales pitch to such events as the Hampton University Ministers' Conference and the Gospel Music Workshop convention. It means competing against the pop industry, megachurches and even Japan's two academies of gospel music, which hire top American performers for teaching residencies.
 In the end, Mr. Slaughter lucked out. Or, as a pastor might prefer to put it, providence interceded. Three months ago, he enticed Eli Wilson Jr., an accomplished musician who had been a consultant to Second Baptist, to sign on as music minister. The two men have known each other for nearly a quarter-century, since both were on the staff of St. Paul Community Baptist Church in Brooklyn.
 Mr. Wilson started playing piano at age 6 in the church his father pastored in New Orleans. Now, at 58, he embodies a breed that is rapidly vanishing.
 ''When I was coming up, the emphasis was on using music to develop and grow people, spiritually,'' he said. ''Right now, it's all about the tightness of the band and spotlighting the best voices. So instead of looking for people who have a heart for ministry, you look for the best musicians. And for them, it's just another gig.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); RELIGION (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SLAVERY (66%) Music; Blacks; Religion and Churches; Rap Music; Education and Schools; Musical Instruments; Music

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



261 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Bruno Invested Campaign Cash In Firms He Did Business With

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Over the past six years, State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader, has invested hundreds of thousands of dollars from two campaign accounts that he controls in at least four Albany-area companies, which have all had personal business dealings with him, a review of state campaign finance records shows.
 The investments, though legal, were unusual even for New York, whose election laws are considered relatively lax. While some campaign committees have reported earning interest or dividends from mutual funds, Mr. Bruno, a Republican, appears to be one of only a few lawmakers to use excess campaign funds to make loans to private companies or to buy individual stocks, according to a review of state records.
Mr. Bruno's purchase of stock in a start-up company with volatile prices led him to lose money contributed by supporters. And campaign finance experts say such investments pose the potential for abuse, because it is hard to monitor whether candidates are receiving beneficial treatment from companies. 
 State campaign finance rules are vague about which details candidates must disclose about investments by their campaign committees. The State Board of Elections does not include investment records in the reports it makes public.
 Complicating Mr. Bruno's case is the fact that he had personally invested in two of the companies that his campaign accounts bought stock in, and he had financial dealings with the chairman of two others. The accounts Mr. Bruno used in the investments were held by his re-election committee and the State Senate Republicans' campaign committee. 
 Last year, the senator's re-election committee reported losing almost $99,000 on an investment in 2000 in Plug Power Inc., a maker of fuel cells based in Latham, N.Y., in which he also personally owned stock, his financial disclosure reports show. In July 2001, a year after he and his committee bought their shares in Plug Power, Mr. Bruno helped secure $500,000 in state money for a research project involving Plug Power, which has also received state contracts and other government aid.
 Also in 2001, Mr. Bruno's two committees loaned roughly $200,000 to the Capital Center Credit Corporation, a privately held financial services company in Albany whose chairman, Timothy M. McGinn, was a client of Mr. Bruno's consulting business, according to published reports. Mr. McGinn's firm repaid the loan at an interest rate of 9 percent to 10 percent over about three years.
 Mr. Bruno has acknowledged that his consulting business has been under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation since at least early last year. Mr. McGinn said in a recent interview that his firm is cooperating with investigators in that inquiry. 
 Mr. Bruno's use of campaign money as an investment tool adds a new dimension to a spate of recent reports that he and other lawmakers steered millions in public money to pet causes, including several profit-making companies. Mr. Bruno and other lawmakers have said the grants were economic development incentives intended to help small firms expand.
 John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, offered a more pragmatic rationale for the campaign committees' investments, saying they were an attempt to get a better rate of return than what banks were offering. He said the fact that they lost money on some of the investments shows that no favoritism was involved, and he defended the unconventional investments as legitimate and ''not uncommon.''
 But some campaign finance analysts say the practice is problematic. Because the law permits virtually all manner of investments and does not specify what information about them must be disclosed, they say, there is little to prevent a company from setting an exorbitant rate of return and using it to funnel cash into a campaign.
 ''You would have no way of knowing that unless there was a regulatory action, like an audit, because it's not required to be disclosed to the public,'' said Lawrence A. Mandelker, an election lawyer who was a campaign treasurer for former Mayor Edward I. Koch. ''That's a shortcoming in the law.''
 Revelations about Mr. Bruno's campaign investments come as other aspects of his financial dealings are under investigation by a federal grand jury in Albany. The senator has said that federal authorities are examining his business relationships over the past five or six years.
 Some of those relationships straddled his personal and public lives. The senator, for example, has held personal investments in, or did business with, companies and businessmen who have also received state assistance, sometimes with Mr. Bruno's help.
 The two campaign accounts Mr. Bruno controls together had about $3 million on hand at the end of 2006, but the totals have fluctuated widely over the years. Mr. Bruno, who has been in office for 30 years, has not faced a serious opponent since the early 1990s. He has not spent heavily on his re-election campaigns in many years and has often had large amounts of campaign cash on hand.
 Many state legislators, who face re-election every two years, keep their cash in bank accounts where it is readily accessible. It is less common for candidates to invest in mutual funds, and rarer still for them to become equity investors in companies by making loans or direct purchases of stock, according to an analysis of state campaign records. Interest income, dividends and losses are the only data about campaign committee investments that the State Board of Elections makes available to the public. 
 Lee Daghlian, a spokesman for the elections board, said that committees must also file a document explicitly identifying the investments they make, but that those documents are kept in paper files and are not included in the data available on the board's Web site. He said it was not possible yesterday to determine whether other candidates had made investments similar to Mr. Bruno's.
 Mr. McArdle said Mr. Bruno decided in 2000 to have his re-election committee buy $107,000 of stock in Plug Power and $24,000 of stock in a related firm, Mechanical Technology Inc. That was about the same time Mr. Bruno made personal investments in both companies, according to his legislative financial disclosure statements.
 After Plug Power went public in 1999 its stock skyrocketed, reaching $150 a share before beginning a long decline in 2000; today it trades at less than $4. Mechanical Technology's stock suffered a similarly steep decline in those years. Mr. Bruno personally lost $36,700 and his committee lost $117,800 in the two stocks when the shares were sold in 2005, Mr. McArdle said. Despite the dismal outcome, he asserted that the investments were viewed at the time as smart alternatives to the meager returns being offered by banks.
 ''Back then, there was a thought that these types of investments were worth making because the analysts were saying these would be good in the long run,'' he said. ''Everybody was investing in them.''
 The $500,000 in public money that Mr. Bruno helped win in 2001 was for a fuel cell research project involving Plug Power and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, which is in Mr. Bruno's district. In an interview last month, Cynthia Mahoney White, a spokeswoman for Plug Power, said Mr. Bruno ''has been very supportive of us,'' although she said the company knew nothing about his investments in Plug Power.
 In 2001, Mr. Bruno arranged for both campaign committees to lend money to Capital Center Credit, which specialized in providing financing for the installation of security equipment sold by the Integrated Alarm Services Group, another company run by Mr. McGinn. Mr. McArdle said the loans were repaid on a monthly basis, at an interest rate of slightly more than 9 percent, until 2003, when Capital Center's debt was assumed by Integrated Alarm and was repaid at a new interest rate of 10 percent. The loans were paid in full in late 2004.
 Mr. McGinn is a principal in McGinn, Smith & Company, an investment firm that recently received a subpoena from the grand jury investigating Mr. Bruno's business activities. The Village Voice reported in 1997 that McGinn, Smith was once a client of Mr. Bruno's private consulting business. In 1999, Mr. Bruno disclosed making a profit from the sale of stock he owned in the Pointe Financial Corporation, a Florida-based bank holding company for which Mr. McGinn was vice chairman and an investor.
 Mr. McGinn did not return a call to his office seeking comment. Mr. McArdle said Mr. Bruno directed the investment in Mr. McGinn's company not out of any favoritism, but because ''interest rates at that time were around 1 or 2 percent, and this promised a much better rate of return.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Joseph L. Bruno sold shares of Plug Power Inc., a maker of fuel cells based in Latham, N.Y., at a loss. (Photographs by Tim Roske/Associated Press)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ETHICS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); STARTUPS (69%); FUEL CELL MFG (68%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (63%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) Ethics; Elections; Finances; Legislatures and Parliaments

COMPANY: PLUG POWER INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Plug Power Inc; Capital Center Credit Corp

TICKER: PLUG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3699 ELECTRICAL MACHINERY EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, NEC (82%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (82%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (82%)

PERSON: Mike Mcintire; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Timothy M McGinn

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



262 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1236 words

PERSON: NYAMKO SABUNI 

HEADLINE: Sweden's Lightning Rod in a Storm Over Assimilation

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL; Ivar Ekman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM 

 BODY:
NYAMKO SABUNI would stand out anyway, being tiny, dark-skinned and obviously foreign in a place where those things are still anomalies. But as the recently appointed minister for integration and gender equality, she tends to draw more attention for her unusually blunt pronouncements about the place of immigrants in Swedish society. 
 As an opposition politician, Ms. Sabuni proposed banning the veil for girls under the age of 15. She proposed that schoolgirls undergo compulsory medical examinations to check for evidence of genital mutilation. She denounced what she called the ''honor culture'' of some immigrant groups, proposed outlawing arranged marriages and called for an end to state financing of religious schools.
Even as furious immigrant and minority groups demand that she be removed from her post, Ms. Sabuni, 37, insists that she is not as extreme as people make her out to be. Given that Sweden is governed by a coalition in which parliamentary votes cannot always be counted on, it is unlikely, anyway, that most of her ideas could plausibly translate into actual law. Nonetheless, she stands by her basic premise: that immigrants must try harder to fit in to their adopted country. 
 ''A lot of people misread their rights,'' she said recently. ''They think that freedom of religion means that they can do anything in the name of religion, or that human rights means that they can act however they want against others.'' Not true, she said. ''If they want to live here, have kids, have grandchildren, they must make an effort to adapt to the society where they live.'' 
 Ms. Sabuni comes across as a dervish, all business and kinetic energy. Barely taller than five feet, she strode to lunch in a private dining room in Sweden's handsome main government office building. She was interviewed in English and answered back in rapid, precisely enunciated Swedish, explaining in perfect English that ''I would prefer to speak in a language that I speak fluently.'' 
 The daughter of a frequently jailed opposition politician in Congo, then Zaire, who fled to Sweden as a political refugee, Ms. Sabuni has a past so singular for Sweden that she arguably represents a minority of one. The story of how she arrived here with her parents and five of her siblings at the age of 12, learned Swedish, thrived in school and in college and ultimately got elected to Parliament and elevated to the cabinet is almost American in its can-do trajectory. 
 IF there is such a thing as a Swedish dream, Ms. Sabuni embodies it. Never, she says, has she let herself feel like a victim or felt anything but accepted. Even putting aside her native French and Swahili for Swedish proved fairly easy, she insists. 
 She holds firm to that view even though, before entering Parliament, she was regularly turned away from the jobs for which she applied, she said, getting work only through contacts or by being recruited. But she refuses to dwell on it. ''You can end up in a negative spiral where you attribute everything that goes wrong to discrimination,'' she said. 
 Ms. Sabuni has certainly been helped in her career by the Scandinavian-style feminism of her husband, Carl Bergquist, whom she began dating when she was 24 and he was 47. His regular hours at a travel agency allow him to devote himself to the housework and their children, 5-year-old twins, leaving Ms. Sabuni free to train her disciplined mind on her work. 
 The path of a migrant to Sweden is not so easy and clear as it was when the Sabunis arrived in 1981, their relocation arranged by Amnesty International. About 12 percent of the population of nine million is now foreign-born; Muslims account for some 450,000. 
 Swedes are far less likely to welcome new arrivals now. Newcomers, who often live in rundown immigrant neighborhoods, are less likely to learn Swedish and more likely to go to all-immigrant schools and to remain unemployed and poor. 
 Sweden's experience has been mirrored across Europe, where governments with histories of tolerance are struggling to find a way to absorb growing immigrant populations, particularly Muslims. Some countries, like Denmark, have passed tough anti-immigrant laws; others, like Britain, are rethinking the live-and-let-live policies they now believe have failed.
 Luciano Astudillo, a member of Parliament and the spokesman for immigration issues for the opposition Social Democrats here, said Sweden must move quickly to address its problems. Even though he believes that Ms. Sabuni's fiery statements while in the opposition were delivered more for political consumption than as serious propositions, Mr. Astudillo said that she had proved nothing but divisive. 
 ''She has used very simplistic and general language when talking about problems,'' he said. ''She has often been the person who stressed the divisions instead of finding what brings us together.'' 
 But Ms. Sabuni, who grew up nonreligious although her mother is Muslim and her father Christian, says that on the contrary, she is eager to start a coherent dialogue. Muslims in particular have marginalized themselves by conveying an impression of intolerance and aversion to change, she said. 
 ''Practicing Muslims who live by the word of the Koran and the Koranic books -- of course they limit their own opportunities,'' she said. ''A lot of people who live like me, or practicing Muslims who respect that religion is a private matter, have had it easier than those who think religion should be part of a larger society. 
 Ms. Subuni said many say, '' 'I need to pray five times a day because my religion says so.' '' But she added: ''Which employer will accept that? Or, 'My child shouldn't take part in music class, because my religion questions this.' O.K., then we have a problem.'' 
 AS the minister for gender equality, she is particularly troubled at evidence that young Muslim girls are wearing the veil. ''I would like to know what is happening in our society that makes families want to put a veil'' on our children, she said. ''Maybe we don't need a law. Maybe we need something else so that people don't feel so insecure that they need to manifest their religion by using their children.'' 
 Such talk infuriates Sweden's Muslim groups, who say that Ms. Sabuni is unfairly singling them out while avoiding pressing issues like unemployment. And, they say, she has essentially betrayed her past. 
 ''I'm happy that she's a foreigner, and I'm happy about the color of her skin, but I think maybe she has lost the connection to the immigrant communities,'' said Helena Benaouda, chairwoman of the Muslim Council of Sweden, the country's largest Muslim group. ''Maybe she has thought too much about herself and her political career, and she should try to remember that she's not representing just herself.'' 
 But Ms. Sabuni said that she was indeed sympathetic and that she fully understood that both sides -- Sweden, and its immigrants -- had to change. ''We have a society that has failed to adapt to new times,'' she said. ''We don't offer people their rights, but we are also unclear about their obligations. So people end up in a kind of no man's land, where they are neither Swedes, nor Turks nor Congolese.'' 
 She said she would identify herself as ''Afro-Swedish, maybe.'' But, she added, ''I feel cosmopolitan. As long as I have my parents, my siblings, my family with me, I think I could fit in almost anywhere.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Dean Cox for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); REFUGEES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); CHILDREN (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (74%); RELIGION (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); MARRIAGE (55%) Immigration and Refugees; Women; Politics and Government; Blacks

Sarah Lyall; Nyamko Sabuni

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) SWEDEN (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Sweden; Congo (Formerly Zaire); Sweden

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



263 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Other Losing War

BYLINE: By ORLANDO PATTERSON. 
Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, is a guest columnist.

DATELINE: KINGSTON, JAMAICA 

 BODY:
Preoccupation with Iraq has drawn attention from another unwinnable American war that has been far more destructive of life both at home and abroad and has caused far greater collateral damage in other countries, in addition to spreading contempt for American foreign engagements. This is the failed war on drugs.
 It was Nixon who, in 1971, first declared war on drugs. As with Iraq, the strategy is flawed in its conception and execution, made worse by a refusal to change course in the face of failure. It strongly emphasizes eradicating the source of drugs, interdiction of traffic and draconian punishment for offenders. It neglects what nearly every expert believes -- and European experience has shown -- to be the only successful strategy: a demand-side emphasis on preventive programs and rehabilitation of addicts. The present administration's claims of a shift to preventive measures is belied by the budget of its drug control office, which allocates a 94 percent share to disrupting the supply, mainly through environmentally hazardous spraying in Latin America and the Caribbean that alienates local farmers. 
The domestic results are tragic: an enormous increase in the incarceration of young, disproportionately minority Americans, resulting in the waste of human resources and the creation of a prison culture that converts nonviolent addicts into hardened criminals, without any impact on drug use. Within a year of release, 43.5 percent of drug offenders are rearrested. Recent surveys indicate a steady increase in the use of illicit drugs: more than 40 percent of Americans over 12 have used them at some point. Nearly all Caribbean societies are involved with narcotrafficking and, in the case of Jamaica, large-scale production and export of marijuana. In 2001, illicit drug shipments in the region were worth more money than the top five legitimate exports combined. The results have been devastating. Political corruption and payment in arms threatens the sovereignty and stability of many states. In 1985, the chief minister and minister of commerce of the Turks and Caicos Islands were arrested in Miami and imprisoned in America for drug offenses.
 Drug addiction and violent crime are now endemic in Jamaica, Puerto Rico and even small islands like St. Kitts. The corruption of the police and other security forces has reached a crisis point in Jamaica, where an officer can earn the equivalent of half a year's salary by simply looking the other way. Last year, 1,300 people were murdered here, in a population of only three million -- and that was an improvement on the previous year.
 Dr. Peter Phillips, Jamaica's very competent minister of national security, estimates that 60 percent of the murders are drug related. Calling cocaine trafficking and use the ''taproot'' of a ''web of criminality,'' he said drugs sustain a ''self-perpetuating culture of extreme violence'' extending to many areas of the society.
 The drug culture is highly transnational and organized, exemplified by the Jamaican ''posses'' that terrorized America in the 1980s with some 4,900 murders. Traffickers increasingly operate offshore, taking advantage of better arms, faster boats and more efficient tracking equipment than those available to local security forces.
 Phillips is puzzled by America's inflexible emphasis on eradication and interdiction and its refusal to provide help where it is most needed, like the rebuilding of corrupted police forces. He provided a telling example of the futility of current approaches. With Americans and Jamaicans working closely together recently, the percentage of transshipments of Colombian cocaine to the U.S. that went through Jamaica was reduced from 20 to 2. But this had no effect on the amount of cocaine entering America -- the traffickers simply changed routes -- and it increased violent crime in Jamaica. Drug dons became more murderous in turf wars, as there was less cocaine and money to go around. 
 America's unwillingness to recognize the socioeconomic context of the drug crisis at home and abroad, to see that being surrounded by failing states threatens its security, to provide aid where it is most effective, and to acknowledge that the root cause of this hemispheric disaster is not supply but its own citizens' insatiable demand for illicit drugs, is as incomprehensible as the quagmire in Iraq.
 A Ford White House aide mentioned in last Saturday's column should have been Robert Goldwin, not Goldman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TRENDS (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); BUDGETS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); PRISONS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); COCAINE (72%); CANNABIS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); ARRESTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Orlando Patterson

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); JAMAICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



264 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Cuts 'Tortilla Tax'

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
The price of tortillas here soared 25 percent in the past week, and Mexico said Friday that it would end tariffs on hundreds of thousands of tons of corn imports to help keep them affordable. 
 The economy minister, Eduardo Sojo, did not say when the move would take effect, but said he would take similar steps later if needed.
Corn prices have been driven in part by high demand in the United States for ethanol fuel, though the Mexican government has also blamed speculation and hoarding by unscrupulous traders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CORN MARKETS (88%); BIOFUELS (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); ALCOHOLS (85%); ETHANOL (51%) Tortillas; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Customs (Tariff); Corn; International Trade and World Market

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (72%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



265 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Propose Cut in Student Loan Rates 

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
House Democrats on Friday unveiled a bill that would cut interest rates on federally subsidized loans to college students by half over the next five years. 
 They said they would finance the $6 billion measure by increasing costs that lenders pay to the government and reducing the largest lenders' government-guaranteed profits.
The bill, one of half a dozen that the new House majority had placed on its 100-hour agenda, underscores the Democrats' all-out effort to consolidate gains made in November among middle-class voters. 
 ''How to pay for a college education has become a primary concern for students and families across this country, a concern that Congress must urgently address as part of our goal of strengthening America's middle class,'' said Representative George Miller, chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. 
 The measure is expected to pass in the House, where it is scheduled for a vote on Wednesday. Its future in the Senate is less certain, although the concept behind it is supported by Democratic leaders there, including Edward M. Kennedy, chairman of the education committee, who is planning to introduce a similar bill. 
 House Republicans, who in trying to contain college costs have focused in recent years on restraining tuition increases, complained Friday of being shut out of the process of writing the new bill and said they would offer amendments before Wednesday's vote.
 ''I'm hopeful we can work in a bipartisan way to build upon it, including with reforms that actually make college more affordable and more accessible for low- and middle-income students,'' said Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on Mr. Miller's committee. 
 That theme was echoed at the White House. Blain Rethmeier, a spokesman, said the Bush administration would support efforts in Congress to ease students' burden, but added that ''colleges have the central role to play in ensuring access to affordable higher education.''
 Student debt has grown exponentially in recent years, in tandem with college costs that routinely outpace inflation. The average college student now graduates with nearly $18,000 in debt. The Democratic proposal would benefit many such students: the 5.5 million a year who receive subsidized Stafford loans.
 The measure unveiled Friday would make good only in part on Democrats' campaign promise to halve the interest rates on student loans. Democrats had never said that the cut would not fully take effect until 2012 or that the pledge applied only to subsidized Stafford loans.
 Unlike Pell grants, which go to students with family incomes under $40,000, Stafford loans are also tapped by middle-income students. Some 75 percent of students holding Stafford loans come from families with household incomes under $67,000, just above the median income for a family of four, which is $65,000, said Luke Swarthout, advocate for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group Higher Education Project.
 The bill would cut the interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates -- loans to graduate students would not be affected -- to 3.4 percent from the current rate of 6.8 percent, in stages. The first reductions would affect new loans made after July 1.
 According to the Project on Student Debt, a nonprofit group, the bill would save a student who graduates from college with $20,000 in debt about $4,000 over the 10-year life of a loan.
 Under the program of subsidized Stafford loans, the government guarantees lenders a rate of return that can be higher than the interest rate paid by the student. In trying to finance their proposal, House Democrats decided that for the largest lenders, the bill would lower that rate by 0.1 percentage point. It would also raise fees that lenders pay to the government, and cut payments that lenders receive if a student defaults.
 While applauded by student advocacy groups, the bill drew immediate criticism from the student loan industry, which complained that it had already absorbed $12 billion in reduced payments from the government as part of a larger, Republican-led deficit reduction effort last year.
 ''What we're really seeing is Peter being robbed to pay Paul,'' said Tom Joyce, a spokesman for Sallie Mae, the nation's largest holder of student loans. ''When you continue to cut and cut again, eventually who you're hurting is not the banks but the students and the parents themselves,'' said Mr. Joyce, suggesting that such reductions would ultimately impair services to borrowers.
 Mr. Swarthout, of the Higher Education Project, called the bill ''a good first step to making college more affordable.'' He added, ''It will save millions of students thousands of dollars on their debt.'' He said that by showcasing the issue in its first days in power, the new Congress was sending a strong signal to student borrowers, and creating high expectations among them for further aid.
 ''You cannot put college affordability as a top agenda item and then walk away after cutting interest rates,'' he said.
 While Democrats in the Senate have embraced the goals of halving interest rates, action there will not be as swift as in the House. Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kennedy, said committee hearings would most likely begin on Jan. 25.
 Mr. Kennedy's bill would phase in similar cuts in interest rates not only in subsidized Stafford loans but also in another loan program . It is broader than the House bill in other ways as well, raising Pell grants to a maximum of $5,100 a year, from $4,050.
 Katherine McLane, a spokeswoman for Education Secretary Margaret Spellings, said Ms. Spellings supported an increase in the Pell grants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); LEGISLATION (79%); TUITION FEES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Credit; Law and Legislation; Finances

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); BUCK MCKEON (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (54%) Diana Jean Schemo

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



266 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Banks Gone Wild

BYLINE: By Joe Lee and Thomas Parrish. 
Joe Lee is a federal bankruptcy judge. Thomas Parrish is the author of ''Roosevelt and Marshall.''

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, KY. 

 BODY:
''I OWE about $12,000 in unsecured debt, and my payments just keep going up,'' a troubled citizen signing himself T. P. recently informed a personal-finance columnist. He always paid more than the minimum amount due on his credit card bill, but ''still the balance never goes down,'' T .P. wrote. ''Is there any way to get the interest rate down?''
 The interest rate that so oppressed T. P.? A towering 29.99 percent. At this rate, the columnist said, if T. P. continued to pay little more than the monthly minimum, it could take him more than 30 years to pay off his balance -- even if he never went shopping again. 
Trying to fight off a collection agency while paying little or nothing on his credit card debt, another desperate borrower, R. Z., appealed to this same columnist. How could he prevent interest charges and late fees from mounting? He couldn't, replied the columnist, as long as he legally owed the money. 
 Consumers like T. P. and R. Z. find themselves caught in the complexities of today's bankruptcy laws. And their predicament is increasingly common. 
 Thirty years ago, the unlucky R. Z. would probably have struck many of his acquaintances as something of a deadbeat: Hadn't he voluntarily run up a debt and then tried to slip out of the deal? T. P., on the other hand, would have received sympathy as the victim of a heartless usurer (if interest rates equal to one-third of the principal had been legal in those days).
 But in today's strange alternative universe of credit card banks, the term ''deadbeat'' refers not to the improvident borrower but to the solid citizen who prides himself on paying off his balance every month. As anybody with a mailbox knows, credit card issuers make unrelenting efforts to lure accounts from one another as well as to establish new accounts. And what these lenders seek are ''revolvers,'' people like R. Z. and T. P., who are likely to pay little more than the monthly minimum -- and who eventually find themselves in thrall to mushrooming interest payments, abundantly garnished with late fees.
 As for the morality involved in lending money at exorbitant rates, the word ''usury'' itself has taken on a quaint, archaic sound, like ''jousting'' or ''necromancy.'' What happened?
 In 1978, the United States Supreme Court delivered a landmark decision that freed banks to charge the interest rates allowed in their home states to customers across the country. This decision, at a time of high inflation, unleashed a national credit storm: states scrambled to relax usury laws in order to attract banks, while banks rushed to establish affiliates in states that weakened or abolished such laws. R. Z. and T. P. are the natural products of this unhappy change. One obvious recourse for people like them is to file for bankruptcy. There's the stigma to consider, of course. But making such a move would allow R. Z. to end the harassment by the collection agency and both men to make fresh starts free of unsecured debts. 
 Unsurprisingly, in the 25 years since the credit explosion began, personal bankruptcy filings have risen sharply. Bank advocates have argued that this reflected debtors' increasing abuse of the protections granted by the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. Personal bankruptcies, said the industry, were costing every household a hidden tax of $400 a year, in the form of rising prices and higher interest rates. It mounted a campaign against what banks called an ''epidemic'' of defaults by debtors. 
 In 2005, these suffering financial institutions succeeded in securing the adoption of new federal legislation, the marvelously named Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act. Nobody who favored this bill chose to see that the bankruptcy epidemic had been produced in large measure by the banks, or that the real hidden costs were the usurious interest rates these banks charged borrowers. 
 Two simple comparisons demonstrate the point: From 1980 to 2004, personal bankruptcy filings increased 443.45 percent, which is certainly impressive. But over the same time, consumer credit debt rose a bit more, by 501.29 percent. In 1980, less than one personal bankruptcy case was filed for each $1 million in consumer credit outstanding; the figure was slightly smaller in 2004. 
 Bankruptcies tend to rise as amounts of credit rise. No mystery there, and certainly no epidemic. It all suggests that the bankruptcy code was performing remarkably well.
 But the banks got what they wanted from Washington. Since the law has been on the books, people like R. Z. and T. P. have continued to receive all kinds of credit offers (no limits there), but they may have a much harder time now fending off disaster through bankruptcy protection. 
 A group of credit-counseling firms that provide bankruptcy screening -- a step the new law requires -- report that 97 percent of the clients could not repay any debts at all, and 79 percent sought relief for reasons beyond their control, like job loss and large medical expenses and, notably, rising credit card fees and predatory lending practices.
 A boomerang effect has appeared, too. The new law contains a provision forcing many debtors into Chapter 13 compulsory repayment plans. The bill's backers expected this fresh squeeze on debtors to produce more cash for the banks, but the trend appears to be downward. 
 In adopting the provision, Congress disregarded the advice of every disinterested group that has looked at the question, including three presidential commissions, the Congressional Budget Office and the Government Accountability Office. It also ignored a past House Judiciary Committee report, which declared that such compulsion might well amount to the imposition of involuntary servitude. 
 So the lending goes on. People classed as the ''working poor,'' now beginning to be tapped by the credit card vendors, no doubt constitute a rich supply of coveted potential revolvers -- fresh customers for the banks to draw into the credit maze, with its minimums and its unending late fees. In signing the 2005 act, President Bush declared that it would make more credit available to poor people. Unquestionably so. And 30 percent interest was just what they needed, wasn't it?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); BANKING LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (67%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Credit and Money Cards; Banks and Banking; Bankruptcies; Consumer Protection; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Joe Lee; Thomas Parrish; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



267 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Asia: China: Alarming Resurgence Of Syphilis 

BYLINE: REUTERS

 BODY:
Syphilis, all but eliminated in China between 1960 and the early 1980s, when China opened its international borders, has returned with a vengeance and urgent intervention is needed to curb the epidemic, say researchers in China and the United States. In a study to be published today in The Lancet, they said the total incidence of syphilis in China increased to 6.5 cases for every 100,000 people in 1999, from fewer than 0.2 cases for every 100,000 in 1993. ''The data demonstrates a syphilis epidemic of such scope and magnitude that it will require terrific effort to intervene,'' said the lead researcher, Myron S. Cohen, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The study linked the re-emergence to economic reforms and globalization, a ''climate that favors prostitution due to a substantial majority of men and a large migrant population of male workers,'' and changing sexual attitudes. The researchers based their report on data from China's National Center for Sexually Transmitted Disease Control. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); MEN (85%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Venereal Diseases; Syphilis; Research; Epidemics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



268 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Official Sees Opening for Revival of Trade Talks

BYLINE: By JOHN ZAROCOSTAS

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Friday that she was optimistic the collapsed Doha trade negotiations could be restarted, but added that there were still obstacles to a revival of the talks. 
 ''I am more optimistic than I have been in many months that we are on a path that could help reach a successful conclusion of the Doha round,'' Ms. Schwab said after a three-hour meeting with the head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy.
 But she added that ''ultimately it will be substance that dictates when there's a breakthrough.'' 
 The next few weeks are considered critical to whether the new political impetus could be maintained. 
 Mr. Lamy, who will meet with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain in London on Tuesday as part of his step-by-step diplomacy, is also expected to visit India. In the next few weeks, he is scheduled to visit a group of African countries and make stops in Brussels and Washington. The meetings of about 25 trade ministers in late January during the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, are also considered crucial.
 Ms. Schwab distanced herself on Friday from the upbeat assessment of Peter Mandelson, the European trade commissioner, who said the talks were approaching ''the endgame.'' She reiterated that an agreement on important issues, like agricultural market access, would dictate whether a deal could be hammered out.
 In recent weeks, diplomatic activity and support for a deal at high levels in capitals around the world have lifted hopes that the talks could be revived. The talks, which were started in Doha, Qatar, in November 2001, collapsed in late July because of major differences over agricultural subsidies and tariffs primarily among countries like the United States, the European Union, Japan, India, Australia and Brazil.
 President Bush and Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, meeting Monday in Washington, instructed their negotiators to push ahead with the talks.
 Many developing countries are apprehensive, about the latest push by the United States and Europe.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Saturday about a meeting between the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, and the head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, misstated the date of Mr. Lamy's discussion with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain about the restart of global trade negotiations. It had already been held, on Jan. 9; it was not scheduled for Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, head of the W.T.O, and Susan C. Schwab, America's trade representative, in Geneva yesterday. (Photo by Denis Balibouse/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (90%); PETER MANDELSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); TONY BLAIR (53%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (50%) Susan C Schwab; Pascal Lamy; Peter Mandelson; John Zarocostas

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); INDIA (92%); QATAR (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



269 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Abu Dhabi Is to Gain A Louvre Of Its Own

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
After months of rumors and a week of protests, the French government has finally confirmed that in exchange for a sum said to be $800 million to $1 billion, it will rent the name, art treasures and expertise of the Louvre to a new museum to be built in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates.
 A formal agreement is expected to be signed later this month, with the new ''Louvre'' -- one of five museums planned for a multibillion-dollar tourist development on Saadiyat Island, off Abu Dhabi -- to open in 2012. 
Critics of the plan -- some 2,400 signers of a petition accusing France of ''selling its soul'' in hopes of scuttling the deal -- have been dismissed as ''grumpy spirits'' by the French culture minister, Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres. The decision, he said, has been made.
 Such is the power of the French government. It owns most major French museums and, by all accounts, President Jacques Chirac has concluded that this is one global market where France can compete effectively. On matters of state, the Louvre's opinion, reportedly unenthusiastic in this case, carries little weight.
 So, in one fell swoop, France has changed direction and is heading down a path it once disdained, a path pioneered in the 1990s by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, which has satellites in Venice, Berlin and Bilbao, Spain, and is planning another, also in Abu Dhabi, to be designed by Frank Gehry.
 But the French operation in the United Arab Emirates is to be far more lucrative than anything the Guggenheim has conceived to date.
 ''It is a way of enhancing our country's image,'' Mr. Donnedieu de Vabres said on Thursday, adding that the deal was a ''win-win'' situation because the revenues received from Abu Dhabi would be invested in French museums.
 Still, that the decision has shocked many in the French art world is unsurprising. For them, one appeal of government ownership of cultural institutions is that it shields the arts from commercial interests. Indeed, a common mantra here -- one long echoed by government officials -- is that creative works should not be sold like consumer goods.
 The first shot of criticism was fired last month by three leading lights of the French art world -- including Francoise Cachin, a former director of French museums -- who complained loudly not only about the Abu Dhabi project, but also about the Louvre's current three-year loan agreement with the High Museum in Atlanta and a plan for the Georges Pompidou Center to open an annex in Shanghai.
 Their protest that France was ''selling'' its museums, chiefly by renting rather than lending artworks, prompted an Internet site (www.latribunedelart.com) to organize the petition endorsing their position. Among those who have signed are numerous current and former directors and curators of leading museums, including the Musee de l'Orangerie, the Musee d'Orsay, the Pompidou and even the Louvre.
 Now, with the issue suddenly in the headlines, the government has started to lift the lid on what has so far been handled as a top-secret operation. Along with confirming the Abu Dhabi plan, officials have leaked its details to Le Monde in an apparent effort to reassure the public that nothing unethical is afoot.
 Abu Dhabi is to finance the construction of the museum and, Le Monde reported, will pay $260 million to $520 million for the use of the Louvre's name for a minimum of 20 years. In practice, though, the relationship with the new museum is to be managed not by the Louvre, but by a new International Agency of French Museums, by which the Musee d'Orsay, the new Musee du Quai Branly, the Chateau de Versailles and the Pompidou Center will also be represented.
 Over the next 10 years, Le Monde noted, this agency is to provide management expertise for a fee of $91 million; four temporary shows a year, worth a total of $195 million; and up to 300 artworks on ''permanent'' display in exchange for $260 million. Abu Dhabi authorities will, in turn, commit to spending $52 million a year to build their museum's own collection. After 20 years, the Abu Dhabi Louvre will adopt its own name.
 According to French officials, the ''desert Louvre,'' as one newspaper dubbed it, will be a universal museum, embracing everything from archaeology to fine arts, decorative arts and even contemporary art from all regions, with a particular mandate to stimulate an East-West dialogue.
 One rumor circulating here this week was that Abu Dhabi had refused to display nudes or religious paintings, both pillars of Western art. But according to Le Monde, the draft agreement stated that the new museum could not reject artworks for ''unreasonable motives.'' Francine Mariani-Ducray, the current director of French museums, also denied that Abu Dhabi had placed restrictions on art lent by France.
 Concern has also been raised in art circles here by a recent report to the Economy Ministry, which suggested that with only 5 percent of French artworks on public display, France could contemplate selling some of the art normally kept in storage. Mr. Donnedieu de Vabres denied any such plan.
 ''There is no question of changing the fundamentals of French cultural policies or museums,'' he told the French Senate on Thursday. ''Above all, there is no question of changing the inalienable character of the works of France's heritage. It is about making sure they circulate and spread their influence through the world with a limited period of exhibition.''
 Still, the proposed creation of an International Agency for French Museums confirms that France is already thinking beyond Abu Dhabi to how the art, experience and prestige of its flagship museums can be exploited diplomatically and politically in other parts of the world.
 After all, if many foreigners go to France to visit its museums (and two-thirds of the Louvre's visitors are foreigners), why not take the museums to the foreigners? So, yes, a Shanghai Pompidou may well be next.


GRAPHIC: Photo: France's culture minister, Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, left, with President Jacques Chirac, said the deal enhanced ''our country's image.'' (Photo by Ludovic/REA)(pg. B18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TOURISM (56%) Art; Art

ORGANIZATION: Louvre (Paris)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (73%) Alan Riding; Renaud Donnedieu De Vabres

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (50%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) France; Abu Dhabi

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



270 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Catch a Falling Star

 BODY:
The planned departure for Los Angeles of the British soccer star and tabloid darling David Beckham grabbed headlines and kicked off a fresh round of soccer optimism. Once again, boosters could claim that what the rest of the world calls football would finally hit the big time in the United States -- for a mere $250 million over five years. 
 Cannier observers pointed out the similarity to the multimillion-dollar signing of the legendary Brazilian soccer star Pele by the New York Cosmos three decades ago. That gave the sport a brief jolt in this country but one that quickly faded, followed by the failure of that era's professional league.
The news of Mr. Beckham's move -- and that of his paparazzi-magnet wife, the former Posh Spice -- overshadowed this week's announcement that Clint Dempsey would be leaving.
 Who is Clint Dempsey? 
 He is a 23-year-old firebrand midfielder who scored the only goal by an American in last year's World Cup (the Italians scored one on themselves for us) and briefly raised hopes that the United States could advance to the second round. He was the 2006 player of the year for the United States national team, but that hardly makes him a household name.
 Naturally, Mr. Dempsey is on his way to Europe -- the English Premier League team Fulham -- where arguably the best professional soccer is played. While Mr. Dempsey has a bright future, Mr. Beckham, at 31, may have his best days behind him. Don't get us wrong, he is still good. But he decided to cross the Atlantic only after losing a step, and his position as captain of the English national team.
 Beyond the money and the glamour, Mr. Beckham's story appeals to us because it matches a notion we Americans cherish about ourselves: We are a destination. The best want to come here, play here and live here. We aren't accustomed to sending our children abroad to seek their fortunes the way other countries have, be they Ireland or Mexico. 
 Mr. Beckham has made a sizable splash, but the future of the sport in America probably rests on the Latino immigrants who arrive with a love of the game and pass it on to their children. Until then our homegrown talents will blossom abroad. We are still the most powerful nation in the world and the largest economy, but we aren't the only game in town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (95%); SPORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CHILDREN (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); IMMIGRATION (64%); REFUGEES (62%) Soccer; Editorials; Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Galaxy

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (92%); VICTORIA BECKHAM (79%) David Beckham

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



271 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Secret Bush Order Allowed Raids on Iranians in Iraq
A recent series of American raids against Iranians in Iraq were authorized under an order that President Bush secretly issued several months ago to undertake a broad military offensive against Iranian operatives in Iraq, according to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. A1

Iraq Strategy Is Debated 

President's Bush's new Iraq strategy apparently has won few converts across a worried world where hostility toward the American expedition has grown while support trickles away. A9

Republicans on the Senate Armed Services Committee lent support to Mr. Bush's plan to send more troops to Iraq, hoping to head off a Senate resolution criticizing the plan. A8

Blair Defends War Policies
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain urged his successors to maintain his warlike foreign policy, saying that to retreat in the face of global terrorism would be ''a catastrophe.'' A6

China Court Upholds Conviction
A Chinese court upheld the conviction against a leading advocate for peasants' rights despite widespread criticism that he was unjustly made a target by corrupt local officials. A2

Somali Guards Kill 8
Presidential guards killed at least eight men of a rival militia at the gates of the presidential palace in Mogadishu, Somalia's capital, plunging a new disarmament plan into uncertainty. A6

Grenade Hits U.S. Embassy
An antitank grenade was fired into the heavily fortified American Embassy in Athens just before dawn. The building was empty. A3

NATIONAL A10-13

Duke Prosecutor Asks State to Take Over Case
The district attorney in the Duke lacrosse sexual assault case asked the state attorney general to take over the troubled prosecution, throwing new doubt on the future of a bitterly contested prosecution that has already suffered a series of dramatic setbacks. A1

Detainee Defenders Faulted
A senior Pentagon official said in an interview that he was dismayed lawyers at many of the nation's top firms were representing prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The comments have produced a torrent of anger. A1

Senate Reversal on Earmarks
Senate Democratic leaders embraced a proposal to shed more light on the practice of Congressional earmarks, reversing themselves after trying to block an almost identical measure the day before. A11

House Passes Drug Changes
Defying a veto threat, the House passed a bill to require the government to negotiate with drug manufacturers to obtain lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. A13

New Plan for Student Loans
House Democrats unveiled their bill to cut interest rates on subsidized loans for middle- and low-income students by half over the next five years, saying they would pay for the $6 billion measure by increasing fees to lenders while reducing payments to them. A10

Rare Shark Dies in Captivity
Ralph, an adolescent whale shark 22 feet long, died suddenly and mysteriously on Thursday, reopening questions about whether whale sharks, a species about which little is known, should be taken from the wild. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Real Estate Market Rallies in New York
Real estate in New York City is showing surprising vibrancy, with market values jumping by 19 percent in 2006, double the increase from the previous year, city officials said. The steepest jump in assessed values is occurring in the Bronx and Brooklyn. Both boroughs had increases of 27.6 percent. B1

Bruno's Special Investments
Joseph L. Bruno, the New York Senate majority leader, has invested hundreds of thousands of dollars from two campaign accounts that he controls in at least four Albany area firms, all of which have had personal business dealings with him, a review of state campaign finance records shows. A1

Neediest Cases B5

Religion Journal B5

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Cablevision Offer Increased
The Dolan family, the controlling shareholders of Cablevision Systems Corp., increased their bid for the company to $30 a share from an initial bid of $27 a share. C1

Business Digest C2

ARTS B7-19

Abu Dhabi to Gain a Louvre
The French government has finally confirmed that in exchange for a sum said to be $800 million to $1 billion, it will rent the name, art treasures and expertise of the Louvre to a new museum to be built in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates. B7

OBITUARIES A16

Martin D. Kruskal
A mathematician who helped describe the soliton, a unique form of wave, he was 81. A16

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Round up the usual lawyers; earning a bad reputation; another chance to help; catch a falling star.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, Orlando Patterson.

Bridge B16
Crossword B16
TV Listings B19
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); LAWYERS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VETO (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); MEDICARE (67%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); STUDENT LOANS (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (63%); LACROSSE (63%); DRUG PRICES (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); TONY BLAIR (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (76%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); CUBA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



272 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Wielding Kitchen Knives and Honing Business Skills
Forget golf outings. Cooking is the new wave in corporate team-building exercises, like this one for UBS employees in San Francisco. PAGE C1

Rice's Clash With Senator 

Senator Barbara Boxer and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice accused each other of insensitivity in comments about motherhood and the war in Iraq. PAGE A8

The N.F.L. Playoffs, Round 2
The second round of N.F.L. playoffs begins today when Indianapolis plays Baltimore and New Orleans plays Philadelphia. SPORTSSATURDAY

Help for Students on Loans
House Democrats unveiled their bill to cut interest rates on subsidized loans for college students by half over the next five years. PAGE A10

Suit Against The Times By Scientist Is Dismissed
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought against The New York Times by a former government scientist who said he had been defamed by columns about the deadly anthrax mailings of 2001. The judge granted a motion for dismissal by The Times but did not provide an explanation. He is expected to file a detailed written opinion in coming days. It was the latest and, perhaps, final chapter in a suit that has gone to the Supreme Court. PAGE A11

U.S. Sees Somalia as a Model
Pentagon strategists say they hope that the recent military operations in Somalia by American commandos, and the use of the Ethiopian Army as a surrogate force, can become a blueprint. PAGE A6

The Louvre Goes East
The Paris museum has agreed to rent its name, art treasures and expertise to a new museum in Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates, for a sum of $800 million to $1 billion. THE ARTS, PAGE B7

THIS WEEKEND

'I Was a Child Soldier'
What an African civil war did to a boy. Also: A real-world AIDS vaccine? MAGAZINE

Siberian Fields
In Martin Amis's new novel, a Russian veteran of World War II and the gulag acquaints his stepdaughter with his grim past. BOOK REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Drawing (Drawing by Brian Rea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GOLF (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ARMIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); JUDGES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); VACCINES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); ANTHRAX (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); AIDS & HIV (50%); STEPPARENTS (50%); CHILDREN (50%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); BARBARA BOXER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



273 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asians Agree to Draft New Charter

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: CEBU, Philippines, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations made progress on its goal of economic and political integration at a summit meeting here on Saturday, but was sidetracked by tensions over how to deal with Myanmar, which has come under fire for its poor human rights record.
 Leaders of the 10 members of Asean agreed to establish a free-trade zone by 2015, intensify their fight against terrorism, protect the region's migrant workers and improve the campaign against HIV/AIDS. They also agreed to draft a new charter with broad enforcement powers -- a break from the 40-year-old group's tradition of consensus and noninterference. 
''We want to advance the sense of community in our shared interest to look after each other in terms of justice, economic development and common security,'' President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said during her speech at the opening of the meeting.
 Ms. Arroyo emphasized Asean's drive to expand trade, ''to create one of the world's greatest trading blocs.''
 But the group failed to find common ground on Myanmar. On Friday, China and Russia vetoed a United States resolution at the United Nations Security Council that criticized Myanmar's persecution of opposition groups.
 ''How are we going to help you if you are not making progress?'' Indonesian president Bambang Susilo Yudhoyono told Myanmar's officials late Friday, according to Reuters.
 Nitya Pibulsonggram, Thailand's foreign minister, told reporters on Saturday that Asean should redouble its efforts ''to see what we can do to help one another,'' to give the issue what he called ''a regional focus'' rather than ''have it internationalized.''
 Asean's new charter, which will be drafted this year, is expected to include mechanisms to monitor and enforce agreements among members, along the lines of the European Union. 
 Two years ago, Asean formed a body called the Eminent Persons Group to provide guidelines for the new charter. On Friday, the group released a list of 28 recommendations, including the ''strengthening of democratic values, good governance, rejection of unconstitutional and undemocratic changes of government, respect of the rule of law, including international humanitarian law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.'' 
 In a sense, the charter is a bid to remain relevant as the economic power of China and India grows, something the group itself acknowledged. ''While the Asean charter will bring about a long overdue legal framework, Asean must reposition itself,'' Asean said in a statement. ''It must address the growing challenges and opportunities of regional integration, the major shifts in the Asian landscape brought about by the rise of China and India, and Asia's widening links with the rest of the world.''
 Asean leaders also signed a counterterrorism agreement that, among other things, makes it obligatory for each member country to share information about terrorist suspects and allow their extradition. The accord called on members to disrupt terrorist financing and to train counterterrorism forces.
 Southeast Asia is home to some of the world's deadliest terrorist groups, among them Al Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah, which was believed to be responsible for the Bali bombings in 2002, and Abu Sayyaf, a group in the southern Philippines that authorities say has been behind attacks there in recent years.
 The leaders also signed a declaration to protect and promote the rights of migrant workers. These include ensuring workers' access to services in the country where they work, the adequate and prompt payment of wages, and decent working and living conditions.
 Thousands of migrant workers from Southeast Asia, many of whom work in richer Asean countries such as Singapore, have been victims of abuses such as nonpayment of wages, physical abuse, and even rape, according to groups advocating migrant-workers' rights.
 Asean members are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); VETO (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (67%); SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); MYANMAR (94%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); THAILAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



274 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Market Values Of Properties Show Vibrancy

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
As the nationwide property market cools, real estate in New York City is showing surprising vibrancy, with estimated market values jumping by 19 percent in 2006, double the increase from the previous year, city officials said yesterday.
 And the steepest jump in market values is occurring in the Bronx and Brooklyn, with increases of 27.6 percent in both boroughs. That suggests that the booming real estate market is continuing to shower benefits far beyond the gilded confines of Manhattan.
The data come from the most authoritative snapshot of city property: the annual assessment roll, which contains market and assessed values for all residential, commercial and other property. Yesterday, the Finance Department released the tentative roll, which will largely determine taxes for the fiscal year that starts this July 1.
 The city estimates market values based on sales figures in the case of houses, and on potential income, in the case of apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives and commercial properties. The market value becomes the basis for the smaller, assessed value, which is then used to calculate the tax bill. 
 According to the city's assessment roll, the Time Warner Center remains the property with the highest-listed market value: $1.1 billion, up 9.9 percent from the previous year. 
 Also, the hotel industry is booming, with the highest-listed hotel, the Marriott Marquis in Times Square, worth $504.9 million, up by 39.8 percent from the year before. The No. 4 hotel on the list, the Grand Hyatt New York at Grand Central Terminal, is worth $300.9 million, up 80.3 percent from the previous year. 
 The figures not only reflect the surprising robustness of the city's real estate market, which increasingly seems detached from national trends, but also could provide a boost to the city's budget.
 They also mean that renters and some homeowners may have to dig deeper into their coffers for housing, although many homeowners are protected because of assessment caps, and tax rebates and exemptions.
 Since Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council will probably not change tax rates, because of the city's strong short-term financial outlook, the average tax bill for one-, two- and three-family homes will rise by 4.5 percent, to $3,236 from $3,098. (Assessment increases for such houses are capped at 6 percent a year or 20 percent over five years under state law.)
 Average tax bills will rise 2.1 percent for condominium units, to $6,587 from $6,449, and 6.6 percent for cooperative apartments, to $4,214 from $3,952.
 Those taxes are likely to be offset if the City Council and the State Legislature agree to extend the popular $400 residential property tax rebate, which began in 2004 and has benefited about 650,000 homeowners. Mayor Bloomberg, who is scheduled to unveil his preliminary budget for the next fiscal year later this month, has called for a three-year extension that would last through the end of his administration.
 The city's finance commissioner, Martha E. Stark, who presented the assessment roll in a news conference at the Municipal Building, said that the growth in housing market values was contrary to nearly all expectations.
 ''While people predicted that the sales prices were coming down, they haven't been coming down,'' she said. ''It might take a little longer to sell something, but actually, the prices have been holding.'' 
 The total value of all New York City property stands at $802.4 billion, up by 19 percent from $674.1 billion the previous year. The increases were greatest in the Bronx and Brooklyn (27.6 percent), followed by Staten Island (18 percent), Manhattan (16.9 percent) and Queens (12.1 percent).
 ''Obviously the real estate market has been very good in New York City, so it's not surprising that values have gone up, but 19 percent seems to be a pretty high number,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. He said he was concerned that building owners would be hit with sizable tax increases ''on what really are paper increases in value, because not everybody is selling their properties.''
 Mr. Spinola said the increases could particularly hurt owners of rent-regulated buildings. In buildings where rents are not regulated, higher taxes could be passed on to renters, though only if the market will bear the higher rents, he said.
 The most valuable house in the city was listed at 48 East 92nd Street, worth $39.6 million, up from $30.7 million the previous year. The value of Mayor Bloomberg's town house on the Upper East Side jumped to $13.5 million, up from $10.5 million the previous year. 
 The city divides all property into four classes for tax purposes. The value of Class 2 -- most apartment buildings, including condominiums and co-ops -- rose the most (26.3 percent), followed by Class 4, which includes most commercial properties (22.3 percent), and Class 1, which comprises one-, two- and three-family homes (16.3 percent). 
 The market value of Class 3, land owned by utilities, fell by 5.9 percent, but the decrease was attributed to a recent State Court of Appeals decision that required the city to shift property owned by nonregulated utilities to Class 4 from Class 3.
 Market values for Class 1 are based on sales figures. For Class 2 and Class 4 properties, computer models factor in income generated from those properties in determining market values. (Hotel values are calculated based on occupancy, room rates and other factors.) An arcane provision of state law prohibits the city from using sales figures in determining the value of condominiums and co-ops; instead, such units are treated like rental apartments for assessment purposes, often resulting in artificially low estimates of market values. 
 One factor that may explain part of the surge in market values, and may cause some controversy among property owners, is that the Finance Department has introduced a new method for calculating the values of Class 2 and Class 4 properties whose owners failed to submit legally required income and expense statements by Sept. 1. 
 One effect of the new method, which Ms. Stark called ''more consistent'' than past methods, is a substantial increase in the market values of some income-producing properties, particularly rental apartment buildings outside Manhattan, Ms. Stark said.
 On Monday, the city will begin mailing property value notices to the owners of the city's 980,911 taxable properties. House owners who wish to challenge their assessments must do so by March 15; other property owners have until March 1. The final assessment roll will be published on May 25; bills will be mailed in June, with taxes due starting in July.
 The assessment roll is available at nyc.gov/finance. It includes a trove of information about the urban landscape, built and unbuilt.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Real Estate Values Rising Faster''After growing more slowly in the last fiscal year, market values of all real estate are climbing faster in every borough, by large steps in all but Queens.Graph tracks year-to-year change in market value of all properties since Sept. 11, 2001Figures for fiscal 2008 are tentative valuations2008MANHATTAN: 16.9%BRONX: 27.6%BROOKLYN: 27.6%QUEENS: 12.1%STATEN ISLAND: 18.0%(Source by New York City Department of Finance)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LODGING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TAX RELIEF (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Housing; Property Taxes; Real Estate; Economic Conditions and Trends; Condominiums; Cooperatives; Housing; Taxation; Rebates

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (55%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Sewell Chan; Ray Rivera; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



275 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Ford's Opinion of Other Presidents Is Revealed

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Jan. 12 

 BODY:
In 25 years of interviews with his hometown paper that could be released only upon his death, former President Gerald R. Ford once called Jimmy Carter a ''disaster'' who ranked alongside Warren G. Harding, and said Ronald Reagan received far too much credit for ending the cold war. 
 ''It makes me very irritated when Reagan's people pound their chests and say that because we had this big military buildup, the Kremlin collapsed,'' Mr. Ford told The Grand Rapids Press.
The best president of his lifetime, Mr. Ford said, was a more moderate Republican: Dwight D. Eisenhower.
 Harry S. Truman ''would get very high marks'' for his handling of foreign crises, Mr. Ford said. He also praised Richard M. Nixon as a foreign policy master, despite the Watergate scandal that drove him from office.
 Mr. Ford considered John F. Kennedy overrated and Bill Clinton average. He admired the elder George Bush's handling of the Persian Gulf war and had mixed opinions of Mr. Carter, who defeated him in 1976.
 In 1981, Mr. Ford said: ''I think Jimmy Carter would be very close to Warren G. Harding. I feel very strongly that Jimmy Carter was a disaster, particularly domestically and economically. I have said more than once that he was certainly the poorest president in my lifetime.''
 But two years later, he praised Mr. Carter's performance on the Panama Canal treaty, China and the Middle East. 
 Mr. Ford gave the interviews on the condition that his remarks be withheld until after his death.
 According to the newspaper, Mr. Ford declined to rate the current President Bush, saying he did not know him well enough.
 He said Reagan ''was just a poor manager, and you can't be president and do a good job unless you manage.''
 Mr. Ford contended that his own negotiation of the Helsinki accords on human rights did more to win the cold war than Reagan's military buildup. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (77%); RANKINGS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: Grand Rapids Press

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); ROBERT W BEST (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Gerald Rudolph Jr (1913-2006) Ford; Jimmy Carter; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); PANAMA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007



276 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Tepid Winter Warms Some Wallets

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
THE recent warm weather in the Northeast might not have been great for makers of winter coats, but the economy and markets could be poised for a small fillip. Benefits of the balmy days may extend from poor families to big-time investors, but are they just borrowing present prosperity from the future?
 Climatologists have placed 2006 in a virtual tie with 1998 as the warmest on record for the contiguous United States, and, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, about a fifth of the economy is directly sensitive to the weather. Those sensitivities, however, don't always express themselves where you may expect. 
So far, for example, agricultural markets have not experienced a widespread impact. While 2006, particularly December, was especially warm in the Northeast and parts of the Midwest, there was stormy weather in the mountain states and an unusual freeze in Louisiana. Experts at the Agriculture Department are waiting to see what the next few months hold. 
 Of special concern is the moisture built up in the unfrozen ground from a warm, rainy winter, which could delay planting of cash crops. ''We hope that would dry out some,'' said Gerald A. Bange, chairman of the department's World Agricultural Outlook Board. ''Generally, we like to see about half the corn crop planted by about May 15 or so. We don't want to see any delays there.''
 Plants that last through the winter, like apple, peach and cherry trees, are also a worry. ''In the case of tree fruits in the Northeast, the problem of maybe an earlier bloom because of this warm weather could raise the risk of flowers on the trees being there when a frost comes along in early May or late April,'' said John M. Love, a specialty crops analyst at the board.
 He said he was also watching Louisiana's sugar cane, whose leaves and stalks may have been damaged by the cold, and Minnesota's sugar beets, which are being stored in unusually warm temperatures. Temperatures in Minnesota there have been 6 to 12 degrees above normal in recent months, said Bradley R. Rippey, an agricultural meteorologist at the department.
 Putting agriculture aside, there are other potentially important macroeconomic effects, said Michael Greenstone, a professor of environmental economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The basic idea is that extremes of temperatures, really hot and really cold, are dangerous for human health,'' he said. ''To the extent that the recent warm weather on the East Coast moved us from cold days to more moderate days, that's likely to reduce mortality rates. Having more people around is obviously good for consumption and economic activity.''
 There's an additional boost to construction, which can move faster in good weather, he added. But that effect can be short-lived. ''Over some long period of time, it's unlikely that the number of houses built would change much just because of one year's slightly more moderate weather,'' Professor Greenstone said. As such, the economy is ''stealing a little'' growth from the future when the weather turns unexpectedly warm.
 Of course, if the climate is changing for the long term -- if we are experiencing just the early effects of global warming -- all bets are off. Professor Greenstone noted that economic repercussions of long-lasting changes could swamp these short-run effects.
 The temporary warm weather does have very real benefits for poor families. 
 A warm winter can relax their financial constraints by requiring less spending on heating, said Steven J. Haider, an associate professor of economics at Michigan State University.
 ''They often are making very tough decisions, whether those decisions are paying bills, child care, clothes or food during a particular month,'' he said. ''If there is a cold-weather shock, and their heating bill goes up in a particular month, there are poor people who struggle.''
 Professor Haider and three colleagues researched the effect of weather on poor families' budgets and found that there were substantial effects from extreme temperatures. 
 ''For the short-run effects that we're seeing this year, the answer is, yes, the poor families are feeling a little less constrained,'' he said. ''I'm sure the families have other important uses for that money.''
 Indeed, lower demand for heating oil in the United States, along with rising inventories for other refined petroleum products, has helped to push crude oil prices down-- a boon for the rest of the world, too. 
 At the wealthier end of the economic spectrum, warm weather seems to have a salutary, though hard to explain, influence on stock prices.
 ''There seems to be a correlation between sunny days -- days with low cloud cover -- and higher stock price returns,'' said William N. Goetzmann, a professor of finance and management studies at Yale. He and his colleagues tried to explain the effect by comparing the bullishness of investors in several American cities on given days with the weather in those cities. They found no significant links, but changes in the bid-ask spreads for stocks suggested another explanation.
 ''If there is any psychology involved, it's not the man on the street in Chicago, Dallas, San Francisco, etc.,'' Professor Goetzmann said. ''It seems to be associated with the people who are making the market in New York City.'' He added that ''if a few people are grumpy because it's a rainy day, and they control billions of dollars, maybe they are the marginal investors'' -- the ones who affect prices on a day-to-day basis.
 More sun and warmth may bode well over all, but there are still a couple of months to go in this winter season -- and several more before farmers and construction companies may really feel the difference. As Mr. Bange at the agricultural board said, ''A heck of a lot can happen over the next six months, weather-wise.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sunday River ski resort in Newry, Me., last week took 15 feet of artificial snow to Portland, Me., to stimulate interest in winter sports. (Photo by Robert F. Bukay/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WEATHER (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (71%); CORN FARMING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) United States Economy; Weather

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (57%); WORLD AGRICULTURAL OUTLOOK BOARD (55%)

PERSON: Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (65%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



277 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: A Badge of Childhood, Now Worn by More Adults

BYLINE: By JULIE BICK

 BODY:
WHEN Brenna Moore's two teenage children got braces, she also took the plunge and bought her own set, to correct an underbite that had become worse over the years.
 Ms. Moore, 43, of Basking Ridge, N.J., had already had braces as a teenager, but ''apparently your teeth can continue to move your whole life,'' she said, ''so if you haven't been wearing a retainer for the last 20 years, your teeth might not be where they're supposed to be.''
 The most recent survey by the American Association of Orthodontists showed a 37 percent increase in the number of adult patients from 1994 to 2004, and the growth appears to be continuing. More than one million adults in the United States are currently in braces, according to the association, and adults now account for one of every five orthodontic patients. 
 Most often, adults end up in the orthodontist's chair because they want to straighten crooked teeth -- to achieve a picture-perfect smile. In a time when even Tom Cruise gets braces, ''Dental aesthetics are now part of the overall beauty package,'' said Dr. Don Joondeph, president of the American Association of Orthodontists, adding, ''The same person who goes to the gym, is also motivated to get their teeth straightened.'' 
 Dr. Joondeph estimates that 75 percent to 80 percent of adult patients are getting braces for the first time. There are plenty of medical reasons for adult orthodontics. Crowded, excessively spaced or misaligned teeth can wear unevenly over time and, for some people may be more likely to weaken and fall out. Other problems associated with misaligned teeth include headaches, jaw pain and difficulty in cleaning and maintaining the teeth, possibly resulting in more decay and gum disease. 
 ''Today, people want to keep their teeth until they are 100 years old, so they invest to head off potential problems,'' said Dr. Diane M. Doppel, who taught postdoctoral orthodontic students at the University of Washington and now practices in Seattle. Sixty percent of Dr. Doppel's patients are over 21. 
 The patient usually bears most of the treatment cost, with fees typically running from $2,000 to $7,000, depending on the region and the complexity of the case, according to Dr. Doppel.
 The orthodontists association found that 59 percent of patients have dental insurance that includes orthodontic benefits. That insurance generally offers a maximum payout that translates to about 25 percent of the charges, said Dr. Doppel, who noted that most courses of treatment take one to three years.
 Like members of any group who share an experience, adults in braces often seek one another out. Iain Silverthorne, 39, a banker in San Francisco who got braces last year, says strangers have approached him to compare notes about their own orthodontic work or to ask for advice about starting the process. Web sites like ArchWired.com, offer orthodontic information, photographs, news and a place to share stories. 
 Not everyone is sympathetic to adults in braces. Mr. Silverthorne's friends teased him that he was returning to childhood. ''The braces made me more self-conscious than I expected,'' Mr. Silverthorne said. They also hurt, he said.
 Pain from wires tightening to move teeth, and gums rubbed raw by metal brackets are still common, but adults coming back for Round 2 of braces may be pleasantly surprised that a metal band is no longer fitted around each tooth. For the most part, a small bracket is glued to the front of each tooth, and a wire threaded between them. The wire exerts lighter continuous pressure over a longer period to move the teeth, as opposed to the stiffer and more painful wires of previous generations. 
 The classic silver-colored braces are the still the most common and least expensive option. For those who want to stand out, the brackets can be outfitted with a variety of tiny colored rubber bands -- red, white and blue for patriots, for example, or pink and green neon for clubgoers.
 Many teenagers are fine with metal brackets and enjoy the colored bands, but most adults want less visible braces. That may be especially true for second-timers: adults who had a mouthful of metal in their teenage years usually don't want to revisit that look, Dr. Joondeph said. ArchWired.com offers encouragement to adults who worry that their braces will ruin their love lives. 
 In general, the less noticeable the braces, the more expensive. Clear or tooth-colored brackets can replace metal ones. And brackets can be put on the backs of the teeth instead of the front, but this is technically more difficult and can cause more mouth and tongue irritation. 
 There is also the Invisalign system, a series of clear thin plastic mouth trays that slowly move the teeth. One advantage of Invisalign is that it can be removed for meals or left at home when the wearer goes to a special event. It is not available, however, for patients who need the greatest degree of tooth movement.
 Tooth-colored brackets, hardware glued to the back of the teeth or Invisalign usually increase the overall treatment cost by 5 percent to 25 percent. 
 Braces can be tougher physically on grown-ups than on children, Dr. Joondeph said. Adult jaws are no longer growing, so jaw surgery may be required to correct a severe overbite or underbite, while a child may need to wear a headgear attached to the braces and held to the head by a strap, to modify the growth rates between the jaws.
 Similarly, children may use a palate expander, which exerts pressure across the roof of the mouth to widen it and provide more room for teeth to fit in. This is often impossible for adults, because they are no longer growing and their palates are less malleable. Oral surgeons, periodontists or endodontists may need to weigh in on adult cases if bone loss, gum disease or other problems have started to take a toll. 
 AS more adults become their patients, many orthodontists are changing the design of their offices, Dr. Joondeph said. Some are adding more soothing colors and music, or providing greater privacy to discuss treatment options and progress. 
 ''Some offices in downtown urban areas cater almost exclusively to business people, and are taking the spa route,'' he said. Offices may offer a more restful, less clinical atmosphere and include more cosmetic treatments like teeth-whitening. ''Some offices in the suburbs have a teen area and a grown-up area.'' Many just try to strike a happy medium between the two age groups.
 Ms. Moore, who is going through the treatment with her children, said it was easier the second time around.
 ''I was thinking of doing this for a couple of years,'' she said. ''Quite a few friends are doing it.'' 
 This time, though, she'll wear her retainer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Danielle Psachos, an orthodontic dental assistant for Dr. Diane M. Doppel in Seattle, wears clear ceramic braces and holds two of the more-visible types. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (91%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TOOTH DISORDERS (77%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); DENTAL INSURANCE (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (72%); PERIODONTAL DISEASES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (64%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (61%) Teeth and Dentistry; Children and Youth; Teeth and Dentistry; United States Economy; Consumer Price Index

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ORTHODONTISTS (83%) American Association of Orthodonists; Evergreen Investment Management Co; Bloomberg Lp

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (51%) Julie Bick; John K Lynch; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



278 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: A Burst Of Numbers To Distill 

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
IF no single economic number sends the markets up or down this week, the sheer number of numbers may have an impact -- with negative consequences more likely than positive ones. 
 Clues about the course of the economy will be revealed in reports on inflation, manufacturing, housing and consumer confidence. Together, their effect may be similar to that of the Lilliputians when they lassoed Gulliver. Faith in a recession-free soft landing is so ingrained in investor thinking, said John K. Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments, that a run of unpleasant results could depress the markets, while a set of benign data may have little force.
Mr. Lynch expects the report Thursday on December consumer prices to be first among equals in terms of its ability to move the markets. It may indicate the extent to which increases in energy and metals prices last year have been passed along to consumers.
 ''The core number is instructive to see whether high energy costs have seeped into the costs of producing other goods,'' he said. ''There tends to be a lag effect.''
 Mr. Lynch predicts an increase of 0.1 percent in the core Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy items. A Bloomberg News poll of economists also calls for a 0.1 percent increase, and anything much higher may be more than Wall Street can stand.
 ''If we see a larger figure in core C.P.I., it will certainly scare the market,'' he said, ''because it means an easing is off the books and a potential increase comes back into play.'' He was referring to changes in the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate. A cut has been widely anticipated, even though the Fed has offered no strong hint that one may be on the way.
 Mr. Lynch said he expected any fallout from strong consumer inflation data to be amplified if the report on December industrial production, scheduled for Wednesday, comes in above the 0.1 percent increase that he and the Bloomberg survey are looking for.
 ''If industrial production shoots up and the very next day core inflation shoots up, Thursday and Friday could potentially be very difficult days in the market,'' he cautioned. ''It would pretty much wipe off any chance for an easing in the first quarter and maybe, the thinking will go, for the first half, too.''

DATA WATCH -- Stronger numbers would be treated more kindly if they were to show up on Thursday in the report on the December housing market.
 But the Bloomberg poll anticipates a decline in housing starts, to an annual rate of 1.565 million from 1.588 million in November.
 A small improvement is foreseen on Friday in the University of Michigan's first snapshot of consumer confidence for January. A reading of 92.5 is predicted, up from 91.7 in late December.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change in the Core Consumer Price Index since 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); HOUSING STARTS (75%); METALS MARKETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



279 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: When Those Blue Chips Aren't Made in the U.S.A.

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MANY investors have been heeding market strategists' advice to reduce portfolio risk by putting more money into stable, high-quality, dividend-paying stocks.
 But instead of plowing this money into large-capitalization companies based in the United States, investors have redirected much of it into shares of blue-chip foreign companies based largely in Western Europe and Japan.
Indeed, foreign large-cap blend funds -- which primarily invest in blue-chip growth and value stocks in developed markets -- were the most popular category of funds through the first 11 months of 2006, according to the Financial Research Corporation in Boston. 
 Foreign large-blend funds attracted $43.8 billion of net new money during this stretch. By comparison, highflying diversified emerging-market stock funds attracted $6.6 billion and domestic large-blend funds drew $4 billion, according to Financial Research.
 But does investing in blue chips abroad achieve the same results for a portfolio as investing in big, high-quality domestic stocks?
 The answer is still no, given the currency risks that you inevitably take on when investing abroad. Yet a growing number of people argue that foreign and domestic stocks are becoming more alike, given the increased correlation among the world's markets. 
 Since 1970, for example, the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index, for European, Australian and Far Eastern stocks, has returned 11.6 percent a year, on average. That is nearly identical to the annualized gain of 11.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of domestic blue chips.
 But keep in mind that those slightly higher gains came with slightly higher risk, as foreign stocks on their own are still more volatile than domestic equities. 
 Sometimes, a modest dose of a risky asset can make an entire portfolio less volatile. From 1970 to 2005, a 100 percent stock portfolio invested in the S.& P. 500 would have earned 11.1 percent, annualized, according to S.& P. And that is with a so-called standard deviation -- a popular measure of volatility -- of 16.8. But by moving 25 percent of that money from the S.& P. 500 to the EAFE index, the portfolio would have earned 11.4 percent a year, on average, with a slightly lower standard deviation of 16.4.
 Add too much, however, and more volatility enters the mix. In this case, had 75 percent of the equity stake been invested in the EAFE index and 25 percent in the S.& P. 500, the portfolio would have earned the same 11.4 percent, annualized, from 1970 to 2005. But the portfolio's volatility would have shot up to 19.1.
 This shows that while the global markets may be moving more in sync, ''the world markets aren't completely integrated yet,'' said James D. Peterson, vice president of the Schwab Center for Investment Research in San Francisco.
 Consider the recent performance of foreign and domestic blue chips. Over the last five years, the average foreign large-blend fund returned 13.8 percent a year, on average, according to Morningstar Inc., the fund tracker, as many foreign economies have grown faster than that of the United States and as the dollar has weakened of late. 
 By comparison, domestic large-cap blend funds advanced only 6.3 percent a year, on average, during this stretch. And last year, foreign blue-chip funds soared 25.1 percent, beating the returns of domestic blue-chip funds by more than 10 percentage points.
 Arguably, much of the investor interest in foreign blue chips can be attributed to their outperformance, not to their similarities to their domestic counterparts.
 ''A lot of people just want to be exposed to foreign because it's been doing so well,'' said Ronald W. Roge, a financial planner in Bohemia, N.Y. ''It's performance chasing.''
 To be sure, the correlation between the S.& P. 500 and the EAFE index has been 0.8 over the last three years, according to Morningstar. On paper, that is fairly high, because a correlation of 1.0 implies that two assets are moving in perfect tandem.
 But consider that over this same stretch, the correlation between the S.& P. 500 and the Russell 2000 index of small domestic stocks was actually greater, 0.83, according to Morningstar. Yet investors take it on faith that large-cap and small-cap stocks are entirely different asset classes.
 There are several reasons for continuing to treat foreign and domestic blue-chip stocks separately. ''A big reason is the issue of currency,'' Mr. Peterson said. 
 Investors who put money to work in a foreign market should consider that market's volatility, as well as that of the currency in which its stocks trade. 
 In 2006, the EAFE index rose 13.8 percent when measured in local currencies, according to MSCI. But for Americans to make an investment abroad, money must first be converted from dollars to those local currencies to buy the securities. And when it comes time to sell, the money has to be reconverted back into dollars. 
 In dollar terms, the EAFE index actually returned much more last year: 23.5 percent. That is because the dollar lost value against the euro. A weakening dollar is a tailwind for Americans investing abroad because each share of their foreign stock becomes worth that much more in dollars. 
 SO isn't this good news for domestic investors? It certainly was last year. But what happens if the dollar turns around this year and appreciates, as it did in 2005?
 In that case, investors could see a big chunk of their foreign stock market gains evaporate -- even if the global stock markets are highly correlated -- simply because the dollar gained value.
 This is one reason that investors should always assess several factors in the risk and return of a particular stock, said Francis M. Kinniry Jr., a principal in the investment counseling and research department at the Vanguard Group. These include its industry, its value or growth orientation, its market cap and the region where it operates.
 ''While issues of style and cap size are always important, in many cases they would be secondary to geographic regions,'' Mr. Kinniry said, because stocks will always be affected by their regional economies and local currencies.
 In other words, while geography may not be as important a subject as it used to be for investors, it is still one to be studied.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Going Global''While investors have shunned many large-capitalization domestic stock funds, they have moved money into foreign blue chips. Last year, foreign large-cap blend funds were especially popular.Net new investments 2006 (through November)IN BILLIONSFOREIGN FUNDSLarge-cap blend: + $43.8Large-cap growth: + 21.3Large-cap value: + 17.2U.S. FUNDSLarge-cap blend: + 4.0Large-cap growth: - 9.1Large-cap value: + 17.8(Source by Financial Research Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investment; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



280 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3362 words

HEADLINE: Out of Africa: Cotton and Cash

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY

DATELINE: Lira, Uganda 

 BODY:
''WHERE is he?'' the old woman asks. ''Where is he?''
 Finding Dennis Okelo used to be easy. The old woman -- and most other people in a village outside of Lira, the provincial capital of northern Uganda -- went directly to Mr. Okelo's fields. He was always in one of his ''gardens,'' with his slacks rolled up above his calves and a short hoe close by. Or he was seated outside of his mud-brick house under a banana tree.
Then cotton growing revived in Uganda, and Dunavant Enterprises came to town about five years ago, paying cash on delivery. After three seasons of growing cotton for Dunavant, the world's largest privately owned cotton broker and one of the biggest family-owned agribusinesses in the United States, Mr. Okelo, who owns less than three acres and has two wives and a passel of children, had saved $300, about double his annual earnings before Dunavant started buying his cotton. 
 Last summer, Mr. Okelo opened a grocery store, which is where the old woman finally found him: smiling, standing behind the wooden plank that serves as his service counter in a shop the size of a utility shed. The grocery, one of two in the village, carries dried foods, cooking oil, matches, cosmetics, batteries and candy. 
 ''Before Dunavant, no one came to help us,'' says Mr. Okelo, 40, who has farmed a variety of crops in these parts for about 20 years. 
 Dunavant's decision to operate on the ground here is a little-noticed sign of the new scramble for African resources. While the pursuit of oil, gas and minerals grabs more attention around the continent, farm crops are also lucrative and coveted -- perhaps none more than cotton. Cargill, another family-owned American agribusiness, is also chasing a piece of Africa's annual cotton sales, though with less intensity than Dunavant. 
 All of this is occurring amid a face-off between American and African cotton growers. Although the United States and Africa have vanishing textile industries, they remain the world's two leading exporters of raw cotton, with about $4.9 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, in annual cotton sales, amounting to more than half of the $12 billion market worldwide. 
 Because of tectonic shifts in textile production that have made China and India global leaders, Americans, the richest cotton growers in the world, compete directly with Africans, the world's poorest. And Dunavant Enterprises, based in Memphis, buys from both, at essentially the same price. Finally, the pursuit of cotton in Africa is drenched in history. More than two hundred years ago, American cotton growers imported slaves from Africa to turn cotton into one of the nation's economic engines. Contemporary cotton kings, in yet another commentary on how small the world has become, go directly to Africa for their product -- and, led by Dunavant, they are helping Africans become more competitive with American growers.
 ''The whole situation is magnificent news, especially when the problem has been zippo investment by large corporations in Africa,'' says Robert H. Bates, an economist at Harvard and a specialist in African agriculture.
 Others agree. 
 ''Part of the good news is that the Dunavants and the Cargills will be in Africa for a long time,'' says John Baffes, an economist and cotton analyst at the World Bank. ''Those guys are willing to invest a lot of money and to buy in good years and bad years.''
 In parts of Africa where farmers have been rocked by instability of various sorts -- from H.I.V. to civil war to abusive, government-run farm corporations -- consistency is a welcome virtue. ''For Africans who have struggled with globalization,'' Mr. Baffes added, ''this is a validation.''
 IN his small shop, Mr. Okelo knows nothing of global developments in the cotton trade even though he is a direct beneficiary of them. He started farming during the lean years in Uganda, after the ouster of the country's notorious dictator, Idi Amin, when the cultivation of cotton lagged so badly that production nearly ceased and farmers treated the crop like a weed. 
 A few years ago, as Uganda's production began to revive, Dunavant's trainers taught Mr. Okelo to grow cotton in straight rows and to use a string to measure precisely the distance between rows, to maximize plantings. Mr. Okelo's new methods are basic, but in a part of Africa where farmers work the land chiefly with a hoe -- and tractors, fertilizer and pesticides are rarities -- even basic improvements can lead to large gains in production. 
 ''Cotton is the crop that gives farmers the best money,'' Mr. Okelo said. ''I want Dunavant to be even closer to me.''
 So do thousands of other African farmers in Uganda, Mozambique and Zambia, the three countries where Dunavant operates cotton gins and buys virtually every boll offered. In Zambia, where it has its oldest and largest African operation, Dunavant buys directly from 180,000 small farmers, relying on hundreds of its own purchasing agents. To help expand production in Zambia, a land-rich southern African country, Dunavant lends millions of dollars a year to farmers at the start of each growing season; the farmers repay at harvest time. Last year, the lending in Zambia amounted to $10 million.
 The program ''makes us the largest microfinancier in Africa,'' said Rickard Laurin, a Swede who oversees Dunavant's African operations and has worked for the company since 1978. Dunavant is so well-connected to farmers off the beaten track that social welfare agencies have begun to partner with the company to provide services to remote refugees uprooted by civil war in northern Uganda and to Zambia's rural H.I.V. and AIDS sufferers. 
 To be sure, African cotton is profitable for Dunavant -- and a clever hedge against any fall in American production. The United States' 25,000 cotton farmers, chiefly in Texas, California and Mississippi, depend heavily on about $2 billion in government subsidies, which encourage farmers to grow and export more cotton, thus driving down international prices and reducing the incomes of African cotton growers, in the eyes of many economists. This dynamic -- of subsidized American exports hurting poor Africans -- was one factor that led to the suspension of the World Trade Organization's negotiations known as the Doha round of talks, which were intended to help farmers in poor countries. 
 Though no one predicts a quick demise to American cotton subsidies, support of farmers with taxpayer dollars will have to be renewed by Congress before the Farm Bill expires this year. Mr. Laurin says he believes that it is ''only a matter of time'' before the subsidies disappear and that Dunavant's entry into Africa is partly motivated by such possibilities. If the subsidies go, the price of African cotton, produced with lower costs for land and labor, will become more attractive -- leaving Dunavant well-positioned to reap the benefits of working with loyal farmers like Mr. Okelo. 
 Even with this sunny scenario, some critics worry that growing cotton is so labor-intensive and hard on soils that farmers run the risk of forgoing essential food crops to focus on cotton. The revival of cotton also raises ghosts from the past. ''Cotton was bound up very closely with colonialism, and in many places farmers were forced to grow cotton,'' said Allen F. Isaacman, an historian at the University of Minnesota and co-editor of ''Cotton, Colonialism and Social History in Sub-Saharan Africa.'' 
 Cotton prices are a source of constant tension in Africa, with multinational ginners, such as Dunavant, paying farmers about half of the world price for baled cotton. (The companies then have to pay to collect raw cotton from weigh stations and have to gin it.) 
 Proponents of expanded cotton production in Africa acknowledge that current, lower prices discourage some farmers from taking up the crop because growing it is so time-consuming and expensive. Many farmers have also not forgotten the earlier era of higher cotton prices, analysts say, and prefer to sit things out in the hope that prices rise. 
 Yet the willingness of private companies to pay cash on delivery for cotton is a great motivator, because money is scarcer than food for most African farmers. For agribusiness, ''Africa is the last frontier,'' says Mr. Laurin, who argues that Africa is the perhaps the world's only region with the potential to grow vastly more cotton. China and India, as well as Brazil, another cotton powerhouse, could also grow more, especially with boosts from the spread of higher-yielding, genetically modified cotton. But analysts say that these countries have competing uses for their land -- higher-value crops, for example, or industrial or suburban development. 
 There is another reason for optimism about Africa: Some countries, including Sudan, Zimbabwe and Uganda, are growing much less cotton than they did in the past. So shifts in the cotton trade have raised hopes that Africans can ''go back to the future'' and become a global cotton power, said Maggie Kigozi, chief of Uganda's investment authority in Kampala.
 Forecasters outside of Uganda also see bright opportunities in African cotton.
 ''There's more room for investment and expansion in Africa than anywhere else in the world,'' said Terry Townsend, executive director of the International Cotton Advisory Committee, a Washington-based association of countries that produce, trade and consume cotton. ''You come into Africa with organization and technology, and you can achieve substantial gains.''
 WILLIAM B. DUNAVANT Jr., the family patriarch and the chairman of Dunavant Enterprises, came to this very conclusion in the late 1990s. At the time, American cotton growers were flush with subsidies and production was trending higher. For Dunavant, the path of least resistance would have been to ride the American boom. But Mr. Dunavant, who is known as Billy, embraced Africa as the next big thing in cotton production long before his competitors did.
 ''We wanted to get into Africa on the ground floor,'' he said in an interview. ''We see great potential in the next 10 to 15 years.'' 
 Mr. Dunavant has a reputation for being a pioneer in foreign markets. In 1973, for example, he was one of the first American traders to sell cotton to China. And he built a small Memphis firm, inherited from his father in the 1961, into a global powerhouse.
 ''He's a very sharp businessman,'' said Carl G. Anderson, an emeritus professor of agricultural economics at Texas A & M University who has served over the years with Mr. Dunavant on the boards of various industry associations. ''He's a strategic planner with a special understanding of cotton markets. When he sees an opportunity for his business, you can bet he's evaluated it very carefully and come up with a workable plan.'' 
 Officials at Dunavant officials say its revenue was about $1.5 billion in 2006. The company markets four million bales of cotton a year and, at its peak during the year, employs about 10,000 people in 80 countries; about 1,000 work in Memphis. 
 Though it depends almost entirely on buying cotton on the open market, Dunavant entered Africa through acquisitions and operated by vertical integration: buying existing gins, running collection stations, even helping farmers grow cotton. 
 In 1999, Dunavant bought the Zambian cotton operations of Lonrho, the Anglo-African company, and committed to expanding Zambia's cotton production. A few years later, Dunavant bought a small Ugandan company and retained the management, a Ugandan-Indian family. Keeping the managers was a shrewd move, because it allowed the company to expand faster while preserving relations with local leaders, analysts say. (Dunavant pursued the same strategy in Zambia.)
 Dunavant's timing was good. In Africa, cotton has long been government-dominated. During and after World War II, both the British and French governments saw cotton as a strategic crop for their African colonies and created government ''marketing boards'' that essentially nationalized the cotton group and, by law, required farmers to sell their cotton to the state at fixed prices. African countries, after gaining their independence in the late 1950s and early 1960s, maintained these boards.
 In Francophone Africa -- the largest regional producer of cotton on the continent, in a wide belt that includes Mali, Burkina Faso, Benin, Cameroon and Chad -- government companies continue to hold an effective monopoly over the growing and marketing of cotton. In former British colonies in Africa and in the former Portuguese colony of Mozambique, cotton was privatized, or ''liberalized,'' in the 1990s, after the sector collapsed under the weight of government corruption, mismanagement or (in the case of Uganda and Mozambique) civil war. Governments either sold off existing gins to private owners, as in Zambia and Uganda, or awarded concessions to private companies to start new operations, as in Mozambique. 
 ''Liberalization has made Africa accessible,'' ending a long period when multinational agribusiness companies ''ignored Africa like the plague,'' said Professor Bates of Harvard.
 The combination of liberalization in eastern and southern Africa and solid performance by state cotton companies in West Africa made cotton a striking agricultural success story, in contrast to images of hunger and malnutrition in Africa that tend to dominate reports from charities and international aid agencies. Indeed, while Africa's overall share of world agricultural trade fell by half from 1980 to 2000, its share of the cotton trade doubled, said Mr. Baffes at the World Bank. 
 In Zambia, Dunavant quickly reaped the benefits of privatization by applying basic management skills to the cotton trade. In the space of five years, cotton output grew sixfold, with the crop peaking at 54,000 tons of ''seed'' cotton in 2005. 
 ''We saw the fastest growth in cotton production in the world in those years,'' Mr. Laurin said.
 Dunavant also won over farmers by paying cash on delivery, reassuring entrepreneurs who still had memories of unpaid debts from state-owned companies. Credit also helped. Independent distributors offered small loans to farmers to cover purchases of fertilizer and pesticides, which raised yields. Dunavant invested in new gins and subsequently grabbed a majority of the Zambian market. A study by Michigan State University called Dunavant's program a ''good example of private institutional innovation under liberalization.'' 
 In Uganda, cotton output also rose sharply, though not as fast as in Zambia. Still, Dunavant is the largest buyer of cotton in Uganda, and the country is an important test case for the ability of private multinational corporations to revive African production. The country, which has ideal growing conditions and ample land, was once one of the world's most important producers of cotton; the industry was initially nurtured when Uganda was a British possession. There were no plantations, and the British imported Indians to run gins and to collect raw cotton from small African growers. Over time, Indian brokers assumed huge power and wealth in the cotton trade. 
 Uganda's independence in the early 1960s left cotton farming undisturbed until Idi Amin came to power in the 1970s. He expelled immigrants from India and nationalized the cotton gins; a succession of civil wars destroyed production. By the late 1980s, Uganda was producing virtually no cotton. Production resumed in the '90s, but the state-owned cotton company repeatedly disappointed growers, offeringi.o.u.'s that were never redeemed. In 1995, a new government privatized the cotton sector, selling off state assets piecemeal. Among the buyers were former Indians who had once owned the gins.
 Mr. Dunavant says his company's achievements in Africa ''come not without pain.'' Mr. Laurin, who visits Africa often from his base in Geneva, adds: ''We have problems. It's not just a bonanza.''
 War is among those problems. One morning last summer, Brijesh Patel, a Dunavant manager, set off by car into territory where armed rebels held sway. Before he left, the electricity went off, shutting down the gin for the day. Mr. Patel, a native of India and part of the extended family that runs Dunavant's operations in Uganda, professed to be unafraid of the infamous Lord's Resistance Army, whose chief is wanted on war crimes charges by the International Criminal Court. 
 ''They don't want us foreigners,'' Mr. Patel said gamely. Grace Baluka, a member of his staff who trains farmers in growing methods, shook her head, suggesting otherwise. ''Patel is not a coward,'' she said.
 Later in the day, Mr. Patel made his two-hour journey safely, meeting with hundreds of poor farmers who had been displaced by the rebel activity and lived in refugee camps. Using an interpreter, he offered them free seeds and tractors for plowing land and let them know that Dunavant pays cash on delivery. The farmers broke into murmurs and volunteered to plant a crop. Mr. Patel was pleased; he figured that lingering threats of violence reduced cotton output in northern Uganda by as much as a third. 
 ''We will boom when peace finally comes for good,'' Mr. Patel said. 
 ZAMBIA, where peace does hold, presents different challenges. Unexpectedly, the country's currency appreciated rapidly in late 2005 because of rising international demand for copper, of which Zambia is a major supplier. In the space of a few months, cotton prices, which are set internationally in dollars, fell sharply when converted into Zambian kwachas. Because Dunavant pays farmers in local currency, cotton effectively went down in price and, last year Zambian production fell for the first time in the decade. Dunavant lost money on its operations there, Mr. Laurin said. 
 ''We have a bit of a problem right now,'' he said dryly. 
 Though the value of Zambia's currency remains strong, Dunavant is offering Zambians a somewhat higher guaranteed price, hoping to stimulate production. ''We have to do something to promote the crop,'' Mr. Laurin said.
 Besides paying firm prices, Dunavant continues to encourage farmers to use better methods. In Zambia, it has hired 286 trainers, each of whom supervise 10 ''lead'' farmers who receive free fertilizer and special training for a single demonstration plot. In turn, each of these farmers works with 15 neighbors, serving as a role model for improved practices. 
 In Uganda, the company runs a similar program, relying on a small cadre of university-trained extension officers who ride the rough dirt roads of the countryside on company-issued motorcycles. Ms. Baluka, one of these rough riders, drove out for a visit last summer with Gasper Ocen and his wife, Esther, to see how their cotton farm was faring.
 The Ocens, who have grown cotton the last two years for Dunavant, earned $100 during the last season, money they used to send their two teenage sons to boarding school for the first time. Cotton is their only cash crop, and they are rebuilding after rebels burned them out of their village in 2003. Last summer, the couple bought a steel plow; in the future, they said, they will till their land with the help of a rented team of oxen instead of the hoes they used previously. The plow should enable them to grow more cotton, perhaps three acres this season.
 The couple proudly showed their plow to Ms. Baluka, who then explained how best to use it, aware that the Ocens might become discouraged with unfamiliar equipment. Before Ms. Baluka began talking to the Ocens two years ago, no one had ever bothered to visit them to discuss farming methods. At one point in her lesson, Ms. Baluka grabbed the plow and wielded it expertly.
 ''You cannot convince someone to do something that you cannot do yourself,'' she said, muddying her shoes. 
 When Ms. Baluka finished, Esther Ocen bowed low, deeply at the knees, and held out her hands in thanks. The two women clasped hands for a long time. Then Ms. Baluka said farewell, hopping on her Dunavant motorbike and kicking up dirt as she sped away to advise another farmer growing cotton for a company located halfway around the world.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dennis Okelo, above left, saved enough money to open a village grocery store in Uganda after farming cotton and selling it to Dunavant Enterprises. The company also operates gins in Zambia, above right. (Photo by G. Pascal Zachary)
(Photo by Dunavant Zambia)
William B. Dunavant Jr. embraced the African cotton market long before his competitors. (Photo by Lance Murphey/The Commercial Appeal)
(Photo by Dunavant Zambia)(pg. 1)
Farmers in Zambia receive advice from Dunavant Enterprises on better methods, then share that knowledge with their neighbors. (Photo by Dunavant Zambia)
Dunavant entered the market in Africa by buying existing gin operations, like this one in Petauke, Zambia. (Photo by Dunavant Zambia)
 Esther Ocen with a new plow in a village near Lira, Uganda. The plow should enable her and her husband to grow more cotton this season. (Photo by G. Pascal Zachary)(pg. 7)Map of Africa highlighting Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia: Dunavant operates gins in Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia. (pg. 7)Chart: ''World Cotton Exports''Africa is the world's second-largest cotton exporting region, after the United States.COTTON EXPORTSAUG. '05 - JULY '06United StatesTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 3,821AfricaTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 1,588Central AsiaTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 1,525South AsiaTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 893East AsiaTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 664South AmericaTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 514European UnionTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 478Middle EastTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 260OtherTHOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS: 52(Source by International Cotton Advisory Committee)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); FAMILY (88%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); COTTON MARKETS (75%); TEXTILES (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); COSMETICS (65%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%) Cotton; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Farmers

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COTTON ADVISORY COMMITTEE (59%) Dunavant Enterprises; Cargill Inc

PERSON: G Pascal Zachary

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ZAMBIA (96%); UGANDA (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



281 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: How to Catch a Falling Dollar (and Even Make a Profit)

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
THE dollar fell against many currencies in 2006, and many Wall Street analysts are predicting more of the same this year.
 That needn't worry investors, who could profit from a continued decline in many ways. But some strategists caution that it may be wiser to try to benefit indirectly from a weaker dollar -- by holding stocks or stock funds focused on certain industries and countries -- than by betting directly on foreign currencies.
''You've got to know your limitations,'' said Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. ''Unless you make millions of dollars on Wall Street, you probably shouldn't be speculating in currencies.''
 In 2006, the dollar fell 10.2 percent against the euro and 12 percent against the British pound, although it rose 1.1 percent against the Japanese yen. 
 Mr. Stovall said the best move for most individual investors would be to stock up on the shares of American multinational corporations that earn a lot of their revenues abroad, as well as on foreign stocks. ''We feel that many foreign economies are not as far along in their economic cycle, and they have good growth potential now,'' he said.
 He recommended that individual investors allocate 40 percent of their total portfolios to domestic stocks, 20 percent to foreign stocks, 25 percent to domestic bonds and 15 percent to cash instruments like money market accounts and certificates of deposit.
 In terms of domestic stocks, he favors large stocks like those in the S.& P. 500- stock index. On average, the companies in this index earn 41 percent of their revenue in foreign countries.
 ''If you believe that international economies are going to do fairly well, and the dollar is likely to weaken,'' Mr. Stovall said, ''then you could get a good bit of tailwind if you transfer those foreign profits back to U.S. dollars.'' 
 But averages can hide wide variances. Some industries represented in the S.& P. 500 draw much more of their revenue abroad than others. Companies in the energy and technology sectors, for example, generate well over half of their sales outside the United States, while the utilities and telecommunications companies in the index produce a vast majority of their revenue at home. For example, the handful of telecommunications providers in the index get just 3 percent of their revenue, on average, in foreign countries.
 Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, has recommended European stocks for a few years. He said that individual investors should now focus on developed markets -- and that if they have made a lot of money in emerging markets funds in recent years, they may want to consider rebalancing their portfolios. ''You have to be a little bit concerned that emerging-markets debt and equity may have gotten a bit ahead of themselves,'' he said.
 Mr. Schweitzer said that any further appreciation of the euro could be modest this year. Still, he added, European stocks were appealing investments for a host of other reasons. He pointed out that the average dividend yield in the S.& P. 500 index was now 1.8 percent, compared with 3.2 percent for the MSCI United Kingdom index and 2.5 percent for the MSCI Europe index, excluding Britain. For Americans investing in Britain or on the continent, a further slide by the dollar against the pound or the euro could bolster those dividend advantages. 
 ''Meanwhile, European companies are cutting costs and restructuring, and that's starting to show up in their earnings growth,'' Mr. Schweitzer said. Earnings per share for European stocks, he said, grew almost twice as fast in the first five years of this decade as they did during the last five years of the 1990s.
 On the fixed-income side of their portfolios, some investors may be tempted to profit directly from a falling dollar by buying foreign bonds or CDs. But Martin J. Mauro, the fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch, said he didn't think the time was ripe for investing in foreign bonds.
 Interest rates are likely to fall in the United States this year but rise in many other countries, Mr. Mauro said. Bond prices move in the opposite direction of interest rates, so both European and Asian bonds would generally be unattractive for American investors, he said.
 Many economists predict that the dollar will fall further against the Japanese yen than it will against the euro -- largely because the dollar rose slightly against the yen in 2006. S.& P. forecasts a dollar decline of 6.8 percent against the yen this year; Merrill Lynch sees a decline of 10 percent.
 But Mr. Mauro said American investors would be giving up too much yield if they bought Japanese bonds or CDs. Short-term interest rates are less than 1 percent in Japan, versus 5 percent in the United States.
 And Mr. Mauro said he expected the dollar to fall by only an additional 1 percent or so against the euro -- which he said wouldn't be quite enough to make up for the yield that Americans would sacrifice by buying European bonds or CDs. One-year government bills in the United States currently pay around 5 percent, versus 3.9 percent in Germany.
 For now, he recommends high-quality domestic bonds. He said typical individual investors should put at most 5 percent of their bond portfolios into high-yield bonds, and none into emerging-market debt. Although short-term rates are relatively high, he recommends intermediate maturities -- 5 to 15 years -- because he expects domestic interest rates to be lower next year. 
 ''If we're right, and the economy weakens and the Fed cuts rates, then what investors will earn on short-term rates will be a lot less next year,'' he said. ''It's a tough move to make now, but they'll be better off a year from now'' if they buy longer-maturity bonds or CDs today.
 FINALLY, if investors are really worried about the dollar, Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company, advises them to put about 5 percent of their portfolios into gold. He recommends buying the metal through an exchange-traded fund like StreetTracks Gold Shares or the iShares Comex Gold Trust -- both of which are backed by bars of gold in a vault. He predicted that gold could rise as much as 20 percent in 2007, to around $750 an ounce.
 A falling dollar, Mr. Metz said, may prompt foreign central banks to sell some their dollar reserves to buy gold. He also said that rising incomes across Asia could become a factor. ''The great theme of this century,'' he said, ''will be the enormous transfer of wealth to developing nations, where they have traditionally used gold as a store of value.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Dollar Alternatives''During 2006, the value of the euro rose significantly versus the dollar, while the yen fell slightly. The price of gold, a traditional store of value, climbed sharply.Graph tracks the yen to the dollar for 2006.Graph tracks the euro to the dollar for 2006.Graph tracks the spot price of gold for 2006.On comparable percentage-change scales(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); EURO (73%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Currency; Standard & Poor's Stock Index

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard & Poor's Corp; Morgan, J P, Chase & Co

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: Sam Stovall; Stuart A Schweitzer; J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



282 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: Where Money's No Object, Space Is No Problem

BYLINE: By HILARIE M. SHEETS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
EIGHT years ago one of the few open parcels of land in downtown Seattle was a desolate brownfield bordering the Puget Sound waterfront and ringed by the city's skyline. The eight-and-a-half acre property, a former fuel storage and transfer site for Union Oil of California, was in the final stages of an environmental cleanup and was sliced by a major street artery and an active railroad.
 Next weekend that site will open as the Olympic Sculpture Park, a lush panoramic space for public art designed by Weiss/Manfredi Architects that connects downtown Seattle to the water's edge in a series of shifting, subtly choreographed vistas. Founded by the Seattle Art Museum, it features 21 sculptures by renowned artists, most of them recently acquired for the park. Entering from the street through a sleek pavilion, visitors can walk toward an amphitheater with grassy terraces and the valley beyond, where ''Wake'' (2002-3), 10 wavelike steel plates by Richard Serra, evokes the ripples of Puget Sound in the distance. 
People can roam among the massive plates, which will be incorporated into future dance and theater performances. From there, visitors might stroll across Elliott Avenue on a bridge crowned with Alexander Calder's ''Eagle,'' a 39-foot-tall sculpture from 1974 in bright red painted steel that echoes the industrial cranes on the water. 
 This $85 million park and another much-heralded project -- an $86 million expansion of the Seattle Art Museum that is to open in May -- are byproducts of a local explosion of wealth that has seeded major private collections and a growing passion for the arts. 
 Virginia Wright, who with her husband, the financier Bagley Wright, has been at the forefront of collecting contemporary art in Seattle and has served on the museum's board since 1959, credits the change in the art climate to locally based entrepreneurial companies. ''There wasn't much going on until the 1980s and 1990s,'' she said. ''It's companies like Microsoft, Amazon and Starbucks in such a big way -- not just for the people directly involved but all the others who invested in them. That made us all have more money to spend on art.'' 
 Jon Shirley, chairman of the museum's board, came to Seattle in 1983 and worked at Microsoft for seven years as president and chief operating officer. After he retired in 1990, he and his wife, Mary, became museum patrons and aggressive collectors of postwar art. 
 As the Wrights and the Shirleys acquired substantial holdings in outdoor sculpture, they lamented the lack of a site where they might be displayed if bequeathed to the city. In 1996 they met with Mimi Gardner Gates, the director of the Seattle Art Museum, to raise the possibility of a sculpture park. (Ms. Gates, formerly the director of the Yale University Art Gallery, has led the museum since 1994 and is married to William H. Gates Sr., father of Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft.)
 Ms. Gates was already considering strategies for keeping important collections in the city by raising her museum's profile and expanding its exhibition space. ''People aren't going to give art to a museum if they think it's going to remain in the basement,'' she said. 
 On a fly-fishing trip in Mongolia in late 1996, she ended up chatting with Martha Wyckoff, a board member of the Trust for Public Land in Seattle. Ms. Wyckoff talked of her desire for more parks in the city, and Ms. Gates expressed her regret that there was little space for outdoor sculpture in Seattle. 
 After returning home, Ms. Gates said, Ms. Wyckoff asked Chris Rogers, a trust official, to help the museum scout for available land. When the waterfront site came to their attention, negotiations between the fuel company and developers who hoped to build condos there were well under way. ''We stepped in and said we've got a better idea for this,'' said Mr. Rogers, who was later named project manager for the Olympic Sculpture Park. 
 Turning a brownfield into a green space appealed to many constituencies in this environmentally conscious city, so the company gave the museum six months to raise $17 million to buy the property. The Shirleys stepped forward with $5 million toward the purchase and said they would endow the park's operations with $20 million if the museum could raise the rest of the money for the land. 
 ''That meant it would be free to the public and not have a negative impact'' on the museum, Ms. Gates said, given that maintenance would not be a financial burden. ''It was a huge carrot, and we just started running.''
 While the bulk of the money was raised through major gifts from board members, including the Wrights, the museum was still short of its total as the six-month deadline neared. It widened the net by canvassing apartment buildings near the proposed park and supporters of environmental causes. 
 Ultimately the board folded fund-raising for the park and the museum addition into one $180 million capital campaign. To date $173 million has been raised, a record for a Northwest cultural institution. Of the 6,500 donors, nearly half had never contributed to the museum before.
 After buying the site in 1999, the museum held an international design competition in which 52 architectural teams took part before Weiss/Manfredi's design was selected. With its zigzagging path, the park frames shifting views of the port in one direction and of the skyline and Olympic mountains in another. 
 ''There was an insanity to this brownfield site,'' said the architect Marion Weiss, noting that the environmental cleanup was incomplete at the outset, and that the property was divided by the highway and the train line. 
 ''But the dynamics of crossing the highway and the train tracks make it spectacular too,'' she said. ''So we started to think of how you could slow down this city. The Z-shaped path brings into focus the radically different views and amazing environment.'' 
 Her partner, Michael Manfredi, recalls standing by the train tracks during the construction process with Mr. Shirley, who bought Calder's ''Eagle'' for the park. (The Wrights also donated sculptures by Mark di Suvero, Tony Smith, Ellsworth Kelly, Roxy Paine and Anthony Caro.) ''The train rolled by, and it was the exact color of the Calder,'' Mr. Manfredi said. ''We knew the trains would be part of the park, but we could not have asked for better serendipity.'' 
 Past the bridge on which the ''Eagle'' is perched, visitors can stroll alongside the meadows with monumental works by Claes Oldenburg and Mr. di Suvero and an aspen grove enclosing ''Stinger,'' a fortresslike black steel piece by Tony Smith, and five of his ''Wandering Rocks.'' 
 Then it's over the railroad via a bridge with a laminated glass overhang by Teresita Fernandez that filters the skyline through a design of colored Benday dots. The path ends at the beach, near a fountain with figures of a father and son commissioned from Louise Bourgeois. In time the sculpture acquisitions will be supplemented by temporary installations.
 The park's potential effect on surrounding Belltown, the city's fastest-growing residential section, was palpable even before ground was broken. 
 ''If you stand in the park and look around the perimeter, it's all new housing that wasn't there when we bought that property,'' Ms. Wright said. 
 Peter Steinbrueck, chairman of the Seattle City Council's urban development and planning committee, secured passage last summer of a so-called livability plan for the downtown area that promotes residential growth with a campaign to contain urban sprawl and cut down on greenhouse gas emissions. 
 The sculpture park ''will contribute to our goals not just for the cultural life but also the livability of our urban core,'' Mr. Steinbrueck said. The juvenile salmon population could also benefit. A 2001 earthquake caused damage to the seawall along the future park's edge. The damage was one of several delays in the park's completion, including a strike by concrete workers last summer. 
 The museum recruited engineers and aquatic scientists to buttress it with stepped terraces that also restored the habitat for migrating salmon on the shoreline. The price tag was $5.5 million, financed largely by the federal Fish and Wildlife Service and Washington State's Department of Transportation. 
 The Seattle Art Museum's expansion, designed by Allied Works Architecture, also involved collaborative thinking. In 2001, two years into the sculpture park project, the financial services company Washington Mutual, whose headquarters was across the street from the museum, approached Ms. Gates about building a new headquarters on the block owned by the museum and developing an additional building that could be used by both. 
 ''It was an opportunity that presented itself, and we seized it,'' Ms. Gates said. 
 She knew from a master plan the museum had commissioned that its existing 1991 building, designed by Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, would need an additional 300,000 square feet within the next 20 years. But she would not have considered embarking on an expansion for at least another decade, she said, if not for the bank's proposal. By selling part of the block to Washington Mutual for $18 million, the museum was able to raise cash for its expansion. 
 The new, jointly developed building, designed by Brad Cloepfil of Allied Works Architecture, rises 12 stories, abutting both the museum and Washington Mutual's new headquarters. The first four floors are gallery spaces that connect seamlessly to the Venturi museum building; the top eight floors are temporary offices leased by the bank that will open into the Washington Mutual headquarters, already completed. 
 In 10 years the museum will have the option to take over four more floors. (All are equipped with climate-control systems.) In 25 years it will take control of the entire building. ''We worked out a way that the museum could afford it and grow incrementally,'' Ms. Gates said. Capitalizing on the new space, she plans an acquisition drive timed to the museum's 75th anniversary next year.
 She said she likes the idea of keeping Washington Mutual, the largest employer in downtown Seattle, close by rather than see it leave for a suburban mall. John Walsh, a former director of the J. Paul Getty Museum who lectures at Yale on the architectural history of art museums, said that few museums have a building history quite as interesting as Seattle's. 
 The museum opened in 1933 in Volunteer Park in a building now housing the Seattle Asian Art Museum, which is also under Ms. Gates's directorship. ''It was the classic American model of a pavilion in a park, up and away from the commercial metropolis and the bars'' of downtown Seattle at that time, Mr. Walsh said.
 The museum's move downtown in 1991 was considered controversial because of the area's seediness. Today Lusty Lady, a bar just across the street from the museum, is one of the few remaining relics amid all the Starbucks and art galleries. 
 ''The museum had to wait a while for the city to really build up around it,'' Mr. Walsh said. The Seattle Symphony built Benaroya Hall a block away in 2002, and in 2004, Rem Koolhaas's much-lauded public library opened nearby. 
 For some, it's hard to imagine that this bustling area was a ghost town by night 15 years ago. 
 ''The significance for the city of these projects exceeds anything I thought of at the outset,'' Ms. Gates said. She credited the museum's collaboration with environmentalists including the Cascade Land Conservancy, whose goals include fostering Northwestern cities that are compact, densely populated and, Ms. Gates said, ''are places where people want to live.''
 In a city whose entrepreneurs profess that the survival of salmon is as important as economic revitalization or the arts, it seems natural that the park, the museum and downtown development are so closely intertwined.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the new Seattle sculpture park misstated the year another institution, Benaroya Hall, home to the Seattle Symphony, opened. It was 1998, not 2002.
The credits on Jan. 14 for two pictures with an article about the new Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle were reversed. A photograph of the park at night was by Benjamin Benschneider, and a photograph of Alexander Calder's ''Eagle'' was by Paul Macapia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Serra's ''Wake,'' a series of 10 steel plates that stretch to 125 feet, are the biggest permanent installations in the park. (Photo by Nic Lehoux)
The 8.5-acre park was a former industrial site, sliced by a major street artery and an active railroad. (Photo by Dan Crowell/Soundview Aerial)
The pavilion, an entrance point for visitors. (Photo by Benjamin Benschneider)(pg. 24)
The new Olympic Sculpture Park in downtown Seattle is a showcase for outdoor art
and provides the visitor a series of choreographed vistas: the skyline in one direction and the waterfront in another. (Photo by Paul Warchol)
Above, the Olympic Sculpture Park at night
at left, Alexander Calder's 39-foot-tall ''Eagle'' is perch on a bridge. (Photo by Benjamin Benschneider)
 (Photo by Paul Macapia)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (91%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); ART COLLECTING (75%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); DANCE (74%); THEATER (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (56%) Art; Olympic Sculpture Park (Seattle)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Seattle Art Museum; Washington Mutual Bank

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Hilarie M Sheets

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%) Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



283 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Single Payer's Potential

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Health Care Problem? Check the American Psyche'' (Economic View, Dec. 31), Anna Bernasek said that most Americans don't believe that an effective single-payer health care system is possible. 
 I think that most Americans have encountered some aspect of the modern medical culture -- where everything can be based on price, and where patients are marketing targets -- and they don't like it.
Let a new single-payer proposal be put forth and debated. I believe that people will support such a program and that it will surely be an improvement over the chaotic system we have today.

Margaret Eiszner
Kalamazoo, Mich., Jan. 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: Margaret Eiszner

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



284 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Deals? Join the Club

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Directorship magazine.

 BODY:
PRIVATE equity firms have been teaming up in leveraged buyouts of larger publicly traded companies. Justin B. Wender, president of Castle Harlan, a private equity firm in New York that specializes in retailing and restaurants, analyzed the trend in a recent conversation. Here are excerpts: 


Q. Will the wave of private equity deals increase, or is it nearing the end of the cycle?

A. Given the dollars raised in private equity, it's likely we're going to continue to see significant-size leveraged buyouts. But it's important to remember that this represents a relatively small percentage of all the securities traded in the United States. I don't believe this is a huge cycle that's cresting. It's just a function of the money that's been raised.

Q. What exactly is a club deal, in the context of private equity?

A. It is a transaction typically shared among several private equity firms. It could be as many as six or seven. To approach companies on a larger scale than historically might have been possible, they've teamed up to go after larger businesses. That means you have multiple owners as opposed to one private equity firm. At the peak of the deals of the 1980s, the one involving RJR Nabisco, you had one LBO firm doing a transaction worth more than $10 billion. Now you've got the equity being shared. It's partly a function of more equity going into LBOs today than we saw in the 1980s.

Q. Is what we're seeing now in leveraged buyouts bigger than the 1980s?

A. There are more equity dollars and the companies are bigger. The average size of a Standard & Poor's 500 company is probably five or six times bigger than it was in 1987. In the '80s, you might have put up 10 percent equity. Today you might put up 35 percent.

Q. Will some deals come unstuck when there's a change in the economic cycle?

A. It's true in all companies that an economic cycle can have an impact. It's going to very much depend on the structure of the debt that was taken on and the ability of these private equity players to improve the underlying businesses that they're buying.

Q. Have we ever seen how a club deal performs in an economic downturn? Will the different players cooperate, or will they stab one another in the back?

A. This is a phenomenon of the past three or four years, when we've had a generally improving economy. We haven't been through a down cycle. It's relatively untested.
 The good news is that all these owners have shared interests. Their interests are aligned. They would come together and agree on a plan to get the business back to where it needs to be. They all have very significant upside profits riding on the answers. At least they have a shared incentive structure.

Q. Why are public companies going private to fix themselves, instead of restructuring while they are still publicly traded?

A. As to why some companies are going private, there is increasing scrutiny and regulation, namely the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and that has had an impact. Chief executive officers are spending much more of their time on compliance issues and dealing with shareholders and analysts and the outside world. They have less time for their business than they might like. And when they're private, they can dedicate time to the business itself.

Q. Are you suggesting that a climate has been created in which public companies can't really take tough steps to correct their business model?

A. I don't think that's true. But there are challenges in making changes in public companies. There is constant scrutiny. The research analysts and others are constantly digging into the business and putting out research. You have a lot of public documentation that has to be filed. You can't spend 100 percent of your time fixing the business.

Q. Who are some of the C.E.O.'s who've been lured into the private sector?

A. One good example is David Calhoun, leaving General Electric for an opportunity to join an LBO of the Dutch firm VNU. The public speculation was that he got a $100 million package to lure him. So here's a guy who was a vice chairman at G.E., where he ran $60 billion in revenues, and he left.

Q. Isn't it bad for the average investor that people are taking companies private and reaping big gains that public shareholders might otherwise have shared in?

A. The only way that a private equity firm is going to buy a business is as a result of a process in which the board looks for other buyers. Nobody is buying a business without paying a market-clearing price. Now, are private equity guys taking upside profit that shareholders would have gotten? The complication with that analysis is that doing a buyout creates a different risk profile. If you take a business and double its debt, you're taking different kinds of risks than when public shareholders were involved. The other point to add is that most of these buyouts probably will end up being taken public as an exit vehicle for these private equity firms.

Q. Isn't it bad for the average shareholder, at least in the short term?

A. Isn't that an apples-to-oranges analysis? Return and risk are correlated. When these buyouts happen and more debt is put on the company, it's a different level of risk. It's not exactly comparable to say that the same amount of equity value would have been created. There may be situations where the public market doesn't appreciate aspects of a business that a thoughtful private equity investor might see.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DIVESTITURES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CASTLE HARLAN INC (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Castle Harlan Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%)

PERSON: Justin B Wender; William J Holstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



285 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Strong Earnings Have Stocks Sizzling

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market turned in its best performance in months last week, with all three major indexes posting substantial gains. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed on Friday at a record high, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had its highest close since November 2000. For the Nasdaq composite index, Friday's close was the highest since February 2001.
Strong earnings and economic reports buoyed the market. The Commerce Department said on Friday that retail sales climbed 0.9 percent in December. That was more than Wall Street had expected. 
 Alcoa, the big aluminum maker, gained 7.1 percent for the week, the best performance among the Dow industrials. It said on Tuesday that its profit in the fourth quarter jumped 60 percent from the year-earlier period. 
 For the week, the Dow rose 158.07 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 12,556.08. The S.& P. 500 climbed 21.02 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 1,430.73. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 68.57 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 2,502.82. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond jumped to 4.77 percent from 4.64 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.eBayNNM: EBAYThe online auctioneer said that it had agreed to buy StubHub Inc., an Internet ticket reseller, for $310 million to bolster its share of the multibillion-dollar market for secondary sales of seats to concerts and sporting events.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.53%EST. '07 P/E: 29.41US AirwaysNYSE: LCCThe airline raised its unsolicited bid for Delta Air Lines to about $10.3 billion. Delta, according to people involved in the talks, is hoping to fend off US Airways, and has been in talks with Northwest Airlines for weeks.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $60.81WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.32%EST. '07 P/E: 11.36Sears HoldingsNNM: SHLDShares of the retailer rose after it said that it expected quarterly and full-year profit to rise. For the fourth quarter, the company forecast net income of $750 million to $830 million, up from $648 million a year ago.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $177.78WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.07%EST. '07 P/E: 20.39AppleNNM: AAPLSteven P. Jobs, the chief executive, introduced the company's new cellphone, pronouncing it an achievement on a par with the Macintosh and the iPod. The iPhone will be available with Cingular Wireless at midyear.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $94.62WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.25%EST. '07 P/E: 33.87E.W. ScrippsNYSE: SSPThe owner of The Rocky Mountain News, The Commercial Appeal in Memphis and 18 other dailies said it was exploring a separation of its newspaper unit from its more profitable cable TV and syndication ventures.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $51.95WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.21%EST. '07 P/E: 22.61ChevronNYSE: CVXThe company warned that lower oil prices and a drop in production would hurt its fourth-quarter earnings. During the period, the average price for benchmark crude fell to $60.06 from $70.56 in the third quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $70.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.28%EST. '07 P/E: 8.82AlcoaNYSE: AAThe aluminum maker said that its fourth-quarter net income soared 60 percent on strong demand from aerospace, transportation and building markets. The company said sales in the period rose 20 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.79WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.06%EST. '07 P/E: 10.44WebMDNNM: WBMDThe health-information Web site raised its fourth-quarter earnings forecast because of better-than-expected ad sales. The company said its number of unique visitors rose 35 percent from the same period a year ago.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $45.55WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.79%EST. '07 P/E: 1,469.36(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (69%); RETAIL SALES (55%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



286 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Presto! This Land Is Parkland 

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
IT was big news in the town of Smithtown in Suffolk County when, just before the New Year rolled in, 368 acres of land at a former state psychiatric institution in Kings Park were transformed into state parkland.
 The property had been in dispute since the hospital closed in 1996, as a lawsuit sought to force the state to sell the land to a developer who planned to build as many as 1,800 homes there.
But the suit was dismissed in December by a New York State Supreme Court justice, and control of the land was transferred from the state Office of Mental Health to the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. 
 ''If you look at the land, it doesn't make sense to build housing,'' said Linda Henninger, president of the Kings Park Neighbors' Association, a local civic group that has opposed a housing development. 
 She said that the development would have broken up expanses of parkland surrounding it and that new residents in such an oddly placed subdivision would have clogged the hamlet's narrow roads. 
 The property, which has views of Long Island Sound, will now become part of Nissequogue River State Park, a forested 153-acre parcel next door that was also once part of the hospital -- although 90 acres of it could still be developed with park-related infrastructure like a pool. The transfer is ''great for the North Shore, and it's a beautiful park,'' Ms. Henninger said.
 In the 1990s, as evolving treatment methods ended the practice of mass isolation of the mentally ill, Kings Park and other large state-run psychiatric hospitals on Long Island were shut down.
 These institutions, including Pilgrim State and Edgewood State Hospital in Dix Hills and Deer Park and Central Islip Psychiatric Center, were small, self-contained cities. At their peak in the 1950s, tens of thousands of patients lived in residential buildings on the four sites, which had their own laundry and power plants, playing fields, swimming pools and other facilities. The hospitals employed hundreds of residents of local towns and hamlets.
 The state shutdown left unemployment, large swaths of land and decaying buildings.
 In Central Islip, the state transferred control of the land to the encompassing town of Islip. It hired developers to build attached town houses, which were sold at affordable prices. Parts of the hospital campus were also sold, for development of federal court buildings, a minor-league baseball stadium, shopping centers, offices and a technical college. 
 Those developments were made possible in large part by the existence of a local sewer system; the lack of such a system in Kings Park would make development more difficult and expensive.
 Officials in Smithtown, who were working with State Senator John Flanagan on an effort to persuade the state to transfer the land to the town, were unprepared for the transfer of the land to the State Parks Department. 
 ''It took everybody by surprise,'' Frank DeRubeis, planning director of Smithtown, said of the state's move to make the land state parkland.
 The town has been waiting 10 years for contaminated soil on the site to be cleaned up. It had also been studying a plan, financed by Suffolk County, to spur development in downtown Kings Park and downtown Smithtown by expanding local sewage capacity with an underground leeching field on the psychiatric center property, Mr. DeRubeis said. 
 ''Now it seems that whole thing is dead,'' he added.
 The Kings Park Psychiatric Medical Center opened in 1885 as a rural branch of the Kings County Asylum in Brooklyn and was transferred to New York State 10 years later. In 1955, 9,300 patients were living there. 
 Three years after the hospital closed, 153 acres of the grounds were transferred to the Parks Department to create the Nissequogue River State Park, named for the river that runs through it. 
 The Office of Mental Health still operates two group homes and one residential care center for adults on 36 acres not transferred to the parks office. There are no plans to close these facilities. 
 From the community's point of view, it would seem there is little downside to the recent transfer. New York State pays taxes to the local schools under an arrangement that nets the district more than $5 million a year, according to Mr. Flanagan. About $2 million of that comes from the former psychiatric hospital property.
 Since the state will continue owning the land, it will ''keep on paying those taxes on the land,'' he said.
 That tax arrangement is unusual. It is dictated by Section 536 of New York's Real Property Tax Law, according to Jill Daniels, a spokeswoman for the New York State Office of Mental Health. The school districts in the same category as Kings Park are listed in the text of the law.
 ''Parkland is our 'industrial,' '' said Ms. Henninger, the civic group president, alluding to the zoning category that in some towns brings in significant tax revenue. ''We get a lot of money for beautiful trees.'' 
 But before the hospital land is completely beautiful, the soil contaminated by the power plant and landfills on the site still has to be cleaned up. Last March, Mr. Flanagan said, the state budget appropriated $25 million to help with the project, which could cost $40 million to $60 million.
 When the Empire State Development Corporation first requested proposals from developers, all of their plans called for high concentrations of housing to help cover the cleanup costs.
 But that did not sit well with town officials. ''We felt all along that the developments were unacceptable because the state was selling to a developer, then walking away and leaving us with all that density,'' said Mr. DeRubeis, the planning director.
 There remain 90 acres of the transferred land that hold abandoned psychiatric center buildings and could still be developed once the area is cleaned up. But Mr. Flanagan said such development would have to be ''consistent with the mission of a park.'' 
 For example, he said, one leftover building has an Olympic-size swimming pool and could become part of a community center if it were repaired and renovated. 
 Or, as at the historic Glen Iris Inn in Letchworth State Park in Castile, N.Y., or the lodge in Bear Mountain State Park, ''we could make a beautiful bed and breakfast,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: LAND TRANSFER -- Almost 400 acres have been transferred to the state as parkland, but 90 of them could eventually be developed with park-related infrastructure. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BASEBALL (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (64%); POWER PLANTS (61%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%); RETAILERS (60%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation; Mental Health and Disorders ; Hospitals; Taxation; Property Taxes; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%) King's Park Psychiatric Hospital

PERSON: Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Long Island (NY); Nissequogue River State Park (Li)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



287 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: The Fruits of Fiscal Responsibility

 BODY:
Fiscal discipline seems a quaint idea when money is pouring into the city treasury like beer at a Super Bowl party. But the Independent Budget Office knew what it was doing when it warned that lawmakers eager to spend the city's budget surplus could be looking at tax increases and spending cuts down the road unless they show restraint. 
 Fighting the urge to spend will be a real and pivotal test for the city's elected officials. This is a moment when New York needs to hold itself up as a model of fiscal prudence. And if it does, it can argue that it is worthy of being given more responsibility over its own financial house, something that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago.
The extra $700 million this year, on top of a $3.5 billion surplus last year, should put the city on good financial footing until 2009. After that, though, no one should assume that the real-estate boom and the Wall Street bulls will continue to buoy the economy. Mr. Bloomberg has rightly ended the myopia of budgets past, extending forward planning to four years, controlling spending where he could and lobbying the state where he could not.
 Even so, there could still be red ink ahead. And should any city lawmaker be so dazzled by present-day surpluses as to overlook that danger, there are plenty of independent analysts with long memories ready to sound the alarm. The budget office has served this function for 10 years, analyzing budgets and spending on everything from housing to sports stadiums, and raising questions that officials would rather duck. And then there is the Financial Control Board, which came into being three decades ago, when the city verged on bankruptcy.
 The board mostly serves as a monitor now, no longer an overlord, and the word ''Emergency'' was removed from its title, but it continues to do good work. Because of inept tinkering in Albany with the board's mandate, it could go out of business. But the mayor supports it and it deserves to survive.
 Mr. Bloomberg and Christine Quinn, the Speaker of the City Council, should seize the opportunity to trumpet the city's fiscal soundness and use it to win more freedom from Albany. It's ridiculous that City Hall should have to ask state legislators' permission on almost anything of consequence -- on most matters involving taxation, for instance, and even for the right to investigate Medicaid fraud. 
 If the city shows self control, it should be rewarded with more control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MEDICAID (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICARE FRAUD (50%) Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Independent Budget Office

PERSON: Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Christine C (Speaker) Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



288 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: For Desperate Souls, A Last Chance No More

BYLINE: By LAUREN WOLFE

 BODY:
A suicidal New Yorker picks up the phone. He dials the number of the city's oldest crisis-intervention hotline, HelpLine, in a last-ditch effort to save himself. Instead of a concerned counselor, what he hears at the other end is a recorded voice saying: ''You have reached HelpLine. Due to extenuating circumstances, this program is no longer in operation.'' The voice then refers callers to 311 or 911. 
 This is not some ''Saturday Night Live'' gag. On Dec. 31, HelpLine shut its offices in Marble Collegiate Church on West 29th Street in Manhattan after having served more than two million people over 37 years. Its two staff members and 120 volunteers had received two weeks' notice and little explanation. Its callers received no warning.
 Financial pressure faced by the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, which administered the hot line for the past five years, led to the closing, said Mindy Liss, a spokeswoman. With operating costs reaching at least $350,000 a year, the board decided to eliminate HelpLine from its roster of 185 charitable outreach programs. Calling the closure ''a very difficult decision,'' Ms. Liss said that the board had explored options for directing callers to another service, or at least providing them with an explanation for the shutdown, but that none seemed economically realistic.
 HelpLine was often the only ear some New Yorkers had for their problems.
 ''You have the big, cold city and people who don't have a social support network, so they call,'' said Jeremy Sussman, a lawyer who volunteered at HelpLine for 25 years. Mr. Sussman described typical callers as ''people who can't adapt to any kind of therapy, dropouts, people who've called from halfway houses.''
 ''A recurring pattern,'' he said, ''can be someone who has lost their job and is about to be evicted and has no friends and no money, and you're thinking, 'What am I going to do?' ''
 James Hamilton, a 17-year volunteer, remembers a night five years ago when a 9-year-old girl in the Bronx was on the line. ''Mommy hurts, Mommy hurts,'' she repeatedly told him in Spanish. Mr. Hamilton listened to the sounds ''of flesh hitting flesh'' and the shouts of a man and woman in the background. 
 Frequently, the girl would drop the phone and Mr. Hamilton would shout: ''Hey! Over here! Come and talk to me!'' A man eventually got on the phone, cursed at the volunteer and hung up. Mr. Hamilton never heard back from the little girl.
 ''There are so many lonely people out there,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''It's almost like a ghost that haunts them. Their only source of outside contact with the outside world was often a window. And HelpLine.'' LAUREN WOLFE


GRAPHIC: Photo: HelpLine's offices have closed after counseling two million people. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (68%) Hot Lines; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services

PERSON: Mindy Liss; Lauren Wolfe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



289 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Books on Broadway

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD. 
Henry Alford, who writes frequently for the Book Review, contributed to the anthology ''Money Changes Everything.''

 BODY:

When they say ''book'' on Broadway, sometimes they really mean ''book.'' Within the past few months, musical adaptations of ''High Fidelity,'' ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas!'' and ''Les Miserables'' (a revival) opened on Broadway, neighbors tothat long-running page-to-stage success, ''The Color Purple.''Can the marriage ofAlice Munro and precision choreography be far behind? Here are a few songs from productions I'd like to see.


From ''Middlesexy! The Jeffrey Eugenides Musical''

I love options, they're awful nice
 I like bein' a hermaphrodite. 
 Still I'd like a long, German word for''the ++sadness of failed restaurants''
 Babe, I've got the depresso-jinxedlocation-
 haunts.

Hormone cocktail
 Everybody dance.
 Hormonecocktail
 There's a party in my pants.

Everybody has glands.
 Everybody, jazz hands!


From ''I Feel Bad About My Neck:
 Nora Ephron on Broadway''
Whenever I'm feeling squashed and beetle-y
 I plan another trip to Eataly.

Eataly, Eataly! I'm so glad we met.
 Eataly, Eataly! Think of all I et.

Do I look unwell?
 I once was svelte but now I have svelled.

Am I going crazy?
 My fat cells went condo and my skin is all crepey.


From ''Ray of Hope: The Raymond Carver Musical

No heroics
 Mostly stoic.
 He's a poet
 It's no jo-ik

Spare and brutal
 Lives so futile.
 If age don't kill you
 No doubt youth'll.

Lives fast sinking
 Tortured thinking.
 Life is hinky --
 Drinky drinky.

Lapses and losses
 And the cause is
 Dope and sauce and
 Year-long pauses.

In this trailer
 There's a sale on
 What's avail'ble: 
 Human failure!

Carver Country: strike up the band!
 Carver Country: foreign land!

I wouldrai
 If I couldrai
 But I can't, Ray
 So go away.

(Singer pulls out a gun and shoots himself.)


From ''Freakonomics: An Argument, With Music''

I'm a rogue economist, yeah, that's me
 (As rogue as University of Chicago can be).
 When I show how Roe v. Wade brought a drop in crime
 You'll wish you were as perspicacious as I'm.

Freakonomics! Incentives govern life.
 Freakonomics! Common sense gets the knife.
 Freakonomics! Off the shelves I'll fly.
 Watch your back, Mr. ''Tipping Point'' guy!


From ''Lolita!''

Ripe and nubile
 Juvenile.

O, Lolita
 What a cheetah.

She's covered in lace an'
 Then James Mason.

Really hinders
 Shelley Winters.

World enraged:
 Underaged!

Tension heightening:
 Picnic, lightning!


From ''The Emperor's Children: The Musical''

this new book by claire messud?
 it's rilly, rilly, rilly gud.
 betrayal, envy, some ''et tu?''
 3alums@brown.edu

human pride makes human goblins
 wunderkinds have wunderproblems.

cultural elite: it's bittersweet!
 entitlement: it's their vitamins!

talkin', talkin' 'bout emperor's children:
 ivy league pimps and hos.
 talkin', talkin' 'bout emperor's children
 their daddy got no clothes.


From ''What to Expect When You're Expecting: A Family Musical''

(Singer is dressed as a French chef. He is sifting powdered sugar onto pastries.)

Bonjour, mes amis; hello and walcum
 Newborns, zey love a leetle talcum.

But zere is no finer sweet, no finer muffin
 Than ze bun Maman makes in her own oven.

If you have woom in your womb
 Say hello to the bebe boom.


From ''Richard Dawkins's 'Memealot': The 'Selfish Gene' Musical''

This book coined a new term: meme.
 Or ''me-me'' for those with the selfish gene.

Me me me me me me: me!
 Me me-me me me-me me me me.

There's no ''I'' in team
 But there's ''me'' and I'm

(Singer rips off his clothes to reveal a leotard.)

... A miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiime!

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photos by Adam Palmer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); WRITERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); THEATER (78%); LITERATURE (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); SHOOTINGS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); CRIME RATES (50%) Books and Literature; Theater

PERSON: Henry Alford

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



290 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Making Modern Horsepower the Old-Fashioned Way

BYLINE: By DON SHERMAN

 BODY:
AT a Detroit auto show press conference last week, Dodge announced that for 2008 the Viper SRT10 would get a boost of 90 horsepower -- to 600, from a mere 510. Some reporters in the crowd might have thought that DaimlerChrysler engineers had at last modernized the Viper's brute-force V-10 engine with dual overhead cams and four-valve cylinder heads. 
 They would have been wrong.
Instead, they learned, the monstrous Viper engine would continue to breathe through two valves in each cylinder, and those valves would still be opened by pushrods, a venerable mechanism that has all but vanished from modern cars. Still, the Viper V-10 would have a full complement of technology tricks inside, like variable valve timing, which makes it possible to tune the engine for both high power and low emissions with a few computer-controlled adjustments. 
 High horsepower and high technology usually march in lockstep, advances in performance arriving whenever mechanical innovations permit. Fuel injection, turbochargers and four-valve-per-cylinder designs have all made it possible for automakers to deliver the power that makes drivers reach for their checkbooks, yet remain in compliance with air-quality regulations and often with little penalty in fuel economy. 
 After the energy squeezes of the 1970s, the future of automobiles seemed to be small -- downsized cars and trucks powered by engines with fewer cylinders and smaller displacements. To compensate for the reduction in brawn, engineers set out to fine-tune the coming generations of engines. Inevitably, producing V-8 power from a four- or six-cylinder engine pushed the engineers in the direction of higher engine speeds -- more revolutions per minute to extract equivalent performance on less fuel.
 Of course, imports from Europe, where gasoline has long been expensive, were already using overhead cam engines to extract the best performance from their small size. Moving all the mechanical parts that open and close the valves to the top of the engine -- thus eliminating the pushrods -- yields a stiffer valvetrain that in turn makes it possible to spin the engine faster, a key to maximum power. 
 Stacking the cams on top of the cylinder head also clears the way for larger, more efficient ports, the pathways that direct gases into and away from the combustion chamber. A third benefit is that operating four valves for each cylinder is impractical with pushrods but a cinch with overhead cams. Doubling the number of valves can improve combustion, lower exhaust emissions and increase mileage.
 But bucking this prevailing wisdom has long been a Motor City specialty. Wouldn't you know it, Detroit's seemingly old-tech pushrod engines, also called overhead valve designs, have become horsepower heroes. It's as if the 505-horse V-8 that lets the Corvette Z06 run with Ferraris, the engines in G.M.'s bread-and-butter full-size trucks, Chrysler Group's Hemi V-8, and the Dodge Viper's thundering V-10 never got the memo that pushrods are obsolete. 
 So why do pushrods persist? Because they are superior in certain areas and inventors keep coming up with fresh ideas to keep them in the game.
 Packaging is where the overhead valve engines trounce the overhead cam alternatives. Extra camshafts, and the chains or belts needed to drive them, increase weight, cost and complexity -- but especially size. Pushrod engines, notably V-8's, can fit in spaces that may be too small for an overhead cam design. Because the top of a pushrod engine is so compact, engineers can load the bottom half with larger pistons that sweep through a longer stroke. 
 As an example, consider two current cars with V-8 engines of about 500-horsepower, the 7-liter Corvette Z06, a classic pushrod design, and the 4.3-liter Ferrari F430, a high-tech dual-cam engine. While the horsepower is similar, the Corvette V-8 produces 470 pound-feet of torque compared with the Ferrari's tepid 343 pound-feet. Torque is what spins the tires when a rambunctious driver tromps the gas pedal, and it's what helps pull a heavy trailer over a mountain pass.
 The Viper holsters a magnum V-10 under its low hood. Along with the arrival of new technology deep inside, this engine grows to a strapping 8.4 liters for 2008. Extra camshafts aren't necessary when you've got 10 huge pistons answering every nudge of the throttle.
 The challenge is to make large engines seem small and economical at the gas pumps. To do that, G.M. and DaimlerChrysler disable half of the cylinders in some of their V-8s during cruising, when all their muscle isn't required. Cylinder deactivation is easy to accomplish with pushrods, but more difficult with overhead cams. 
 To coax their pushrod designs to rev higher without running out of breath, engineers have designed lighter, stiffer, lower-friction valvetrains. Pushrod V-8 engines racing in Nascar routinely rev to 9,000 rpm. Thanks to natural trickle-down, the lightweight valves, low-friction lifters and high-tension valve springs made of exotic steels have filtered into production pushrod engines, giving them the speed and stamina to compete with Ferrari's V-8. While the F-430's screaming 8,500 r.p.m. maximum speed is still out of reach, the 7,000-r.p.m. redline of the Corvette outdoes the 6,600-r.p.m. maximum of the Porsche 911 Turbo. The new Viper engine revs to 6,200 r.p.m., 200 more than before.
 To fill the cylinders with the air and fuel needed to sustain high-speed operation, Detroit engine designers have packed larger intake ports into the space available between the pushrods. Lacking the room to go wider, engineers increased the capacity of the intake passages by making them taller. 
 Variable valve timing is another emerging technology that engineers employ to minimize emissions, improve smoothness and enhance power. Changing the timing of specific operations -- when valves open and close in relation to each other and to the position of the pistons -- is not difficult in a dual-cam engine, which controls the intake and exhaust valves independently. 
 Accomplishing variable valve timing with a single camshaft is a different matter entirely, because the lobes that lift the valves are locked in relation to each other. 
 Engineers at Dodge, working with the British firm Mechadyne, redesigned the camshaft to create two concentric shafts, one inside the other. The hollow outer tube holds the intake lobes while an inner tube carries the exhaust lobes. 
 This allows continual adjustment of valve operation, according to the needs of the engine at different speeds. 
 The cam-within-a-cam concept has existed for decades, but perfecting it for production might just add another decade to the life of the pushrod engine.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SNAKE-BITTEN -- The 2008 Dodge Viper is distinguished by, clockwise from left, a V-10 engine that produces 600 horsepower
 hood vents, and a camshaft that is a pair of concentric tubes to make variable valve-timing possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%) Automobiles; Engines ; Trade Shows and Fairs; North American International Auto Show

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

PERSON: Don Sherman

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



291 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: The American Way of Equality

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS; The public editor, Byron Calame, is on vacation.

 BODY:
Income inequality is on the rise. The rich are getting better at passing their advantages on to their kids. Lifestyle and values gaps are widening between the educated and uneducated. So the big issue is: Will Americans demand new policies to reverse these trends -- to redistribute wealth, to provide greater economic security? Are we about to see a mass populist movement in this country?
 Nobody was smarter on this subject than Seymour Martin Lipset, the eminent sociologist who died at 84 on New Year's Eve. Lipset had been a socialist in the hothouse atmosphere of City College during the 1940s, and though he later became a moderate Democrat, he continued to wonder, with some regret, why America never had a serious socialist movement, why America never adopted a European-style welfare state. 
 Lipset was aware of the structural and demographic answers to such questions. For example, racially diverse nations tend to have lower levels of social support than homogeneous ones. People don't feel as bound together when they are divided on ethnic lines and are less likely to embrace mutual support programs. You can have diversity or a big welfare state. It's hard to have both.
 But as he studied these matters, Lipset moved away from structural or demographic explanations (too many counterexamples). He drifted, as Tocqueville and Werner Sombart had before him, to values. 
 America never had a feudal past, so nobody has a sense of social place or class-consciousness, Lipset observed. Meanwhile, Americans have inherited from their Puritan forebears a sense that they have a spiritual obligation to rise and succeed.
 Two great themes run through American history, Lipset wrote in his 1963 book ''The First New Nation'': achievement and equality. These are often in tension because when you leave unequally endowed people free to achieve, you get unequal results.
 Though Lipset never quite put it this way, the clear message from his writings is that when achievement and equality clash in America, achievement wins. Or to be more precise, the achievement ethos reshapes the definition of equality. When Americans use the word ''equality,'' they really mean ''fair opportunity.'' When Americans use the word ''freedom,'' they really mean ''opportunity.''
 Lipset was relentlessly empirical, and rested his conclusions on data as well as history and philosophy. He found that Americans have for centuries embraced individualistic, meritocratic, antistatist values, even at times when income inequality was greater than it is today. 
 Large majorities of Americans have always believed that individuals are responsible for their own success, Lipset reported, while people in other countries are much more likely to point to forces beyond individual control. Sixty-five percent of Americans believe hard work is the key to success; only 12 percent think luck plays a major role.
 In his ''American Exceptionalism'' (1996), Lipset pointed out that 78 percent of Americans endorse the view that ''the strength of this country today is mostly based on the success of American business.'' Fewer than a third of all Americans believe the state has a responsibility to reduce income disparities, compared with 82 percent of Italians. Over 70 percent of Americans believe ''individuals should take more responsibility for providing for themselves'' whereas most Japanese believe ''the state should take more responsibility to ensure everyone is provided for.''
 America, he concluded, is an outlier, an exceptional nation. And though his patriotism pervaded his writing, he emphasized that American exceptionalism is ''a double-edged sword.''
 Political movements that run afoul of these individualistic, achievement-oriented values rarely prosper. The Democratic Party is now divided between moderates -- who emphasize individual responsibility and education to ameliorate inequality -- and progressive populists, who advocate an activist state that will protect people from forces beyond their control. Given the deep forces in American history, the centrists will almost certainly win out. 
 Indeed, the most amazing thing about the past week is how modest the Democratic agenda has been. Democrats have been out of power in Congress for 12 years. They finally get a chance to legislate and they push through a series of small proposals that are little pebbles compared to the vast economic problems they described during the campaign.
 They grasp the realities Marty Lipset described. They understand that in the face of inequality, Americans have usually opted for policies that offer more opportunity, not those emphasizing security or redistribution. American domestic policy is drifting leftward, but there are sharp limits on how far it will go. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); HISTORY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%) United States Economy; Income

PERSON: David Brooks; Seymour Martin Lipset

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



292 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: Amber Fields of Bland

BYLINE: By Dan Barber. 
Dan Barber is the chef and co-owner of Blue Hill at Stone Barns and the creative director of the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture.

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THERE'S invariably something risky, if not risible, about allowing Congress to decide what's for dinner. Bad decisions about agriculture have defined government policy for the last century; 70 percent of our nation's farms have been lost to bankruptcy or consolidation, creating an agricultural economy that looks more Wall Street than Main Street. 
 Now, after the uprooting of a thousand years of agrarian wisdom, we chefs have discovered something really terrible -- no, not that the agricultural system we help support hurts farmers and devastates farming communities, or that it harms the environment and our health. What we've discovered is that the food it produces just doesn't taste very good.
Who's responsible for the blandness? Look no further than Washington: There you will meet not farmers, but the people determining how our farmers farm. They do it through the farm bill, a mammoth piece of legislation that designates American agricultural policy every five years and that Congress is preparing to take up in its new session. 
 This is a sweeping bill, omnibus in every sense -- nutrition, conservation, genetic engineering, food safety, school lunch programs, water quality, organic farming and much more. It's really a food and farm bill. If you're a chef or a home cook or someone who just likes to eat, it affects you, because it determines what you eat and how what you eat is grown.
 And the food that we grow on 200 million acres of harvested cropland is inedible. Stand in the middle of our farm belt and you'll see cornfields extending to the horizon, but the harvest won't be dinner, not until it's milled and processed into flours or starches, or used to fatten our animals on feedlots. Just four crops -- corn, rice, soybeans and wheat -- account for the vast majority of our harvested acreage. Not surprising, given that these same crops account for 70 percent of the total subsidies allotted to farmers.
 No one wants farmers to suffer, especially chefs. But if we're spending $20 billion or so a year on farm subsidies, we ought to invest in the foods we eat. And I mean eat, not process into something that resembles food. That means fewer subsidies for grains like corn and soy, and more help for growers of broccoli and tomatoes.
 How do we do this? We could start by rewarding diversity over yield, basing subsidy payments not on how many acres of corn a farmer grows but on the number of varieties of crops he plants. We could also link payments to, say, the efficiency of nitrogen fixation (crop rotation helps the soil retain nitrogen, so farmers don't need to add it with chemicals) or equate them with how much a farm helps soil and water conservation. In effect, tie payments to plant health.
 This doesn't mean the government needs to tell the farmer what to grow. Instead, show the farmer that there's more money to be made in a rich, diverse ecology and the planting strategy will change. Change the planting strategy, and whether it's grains or greens, the quality of what's harvested vastly improves.
 Yes, the naughty thumb of science may have prodded the earth, as E. E. Cummings said, but there's nothing wrong with thumbing dollar bills in the direction of promoting a tastier food supply. That's the kind of green revolution that a chef can support.
 But such thoughts are rarely on the minds of our legislators, or, so it seems, anyone else. Take as an example the insurance industry. Its policies favor big farms that grow a single commodity crop. If you're a farmer who wants to grow lots of different crops, it's almost impossible to get affordable coverage; to insurers, you're pretty much the equivalent of a skydiving cigarette smoker.
 The insurance regulations that are part of the farm bill need to address this disparity, because crop diversification should be exactly what insurers want: it helps to prevent the kind of natural disasters that insurance policies protect against, say, a devastating insect infestation. (Of course, it gives food lovers precisely what they want: more diversity, more variety, more flavor.) To this end, our agricultural policy should acknowledge the role of biodiverse farms in risk management by establishing discounts for farmers who practice this form of environmental stewardship and removing the discriminatory 5 percent premium surcharge on policies that encumbers organic producers under the current system. 
 While our legislators are at it, they might also look at another powerful paradox that chefs confront every day. If I want to purchase a case of carrots, it's much easier (and cheaper) to get them from the Salinas Valley, in California, than from the Hudson Valley that surrounds my restaurants. The food distribution system favors size. A distributor in California can send one truck to pick up 50 cases of carrots; a distributor procuring exclusively from the Northeast will need to send 50 trucks to 50 different farms. 
 That's a shame, not just because a carrot that comes to New York from California gets singed with petroleum as it travels cross-country, but because at this time of year carrots pulled from the rich muck dirt of Western New York have 50 times more flavor than their West Coast counterparts.
 Same with milk, which large industrial dairy farms sell with the iconic label of a smiling, muscle-flexed cow in front of open pasture and next to an old red barn. That's tantamount to false advertising, since the industrial dairy cow never sees a blade of fresh grass and has very few muscles to flex after receiving hormones to increase productivity. With 20,000 cows per farm, the animals spend a lot of time waiting in line for the next milking, so it's hard to imagine that there is a lot of smiling going on. 
 False representation aside, there's one point the powerful dairy industry won't let us forget: milk is pretty cheap. But the real cost of milk is hidden in places like California, with its heavily subsidized irrigation system; if Western dairy farmers had to pay the real cost of the irrigation-dependent alfalfa fed to cows, New England's milk prices would be more competitive. And if those cows ate a variety of grasses as they were meant to, instead of just alfalfa, ''Got Milk?'' would be more ''Got Rich, Delicious and Affordable Milk?'' 
 Though food transportation and irrigation subsidies exist outside the domain of the current farm bill, their implications cannot be overlooked as we review (and revise) our system of agriculture. The new bill needs to level the playing field by recognizing a region's agricultural strength -- like New England's abundant supply of great grassland -- and encouraging farmers through subsidies and other inducements to use it accordingly. 
 Then there's the question of meat and poultry. A breed of pig that tasted like pork (something other than the other white meat)? A chicken that actually saw pasture (and tasted like chicken)? A steer with fat marbled on a grass diet, or a lamb that's been rotationally grazed? We're not asking for a lot, but no matter, it's not for sale, at least not by the big-food chain. 
 Unless you're a farmers' market devotee or savvy Internet user, or happen to live near a market that supports good animal husbandry, you depend on a system that raises animals in confinement. That's very large confinement -- several thousand pigs to a barn, tens of thousands of chickens. The industrial model is efficiency through uniformity. A tastier model would be flavor through diversity -- but the current farm bill won't allow it.
 For one thing, federal rules prohibit the out-of-state sale of livestock and poultry products inspected by a state agency, which means if you want to raise more meat and expand your farm by offering a niche product, you're stuck doing it only in your state -- if you can find a slaughterhouse. (Oh, federally inspected slaughterhouses are few and far between, and unless you're an agribusiness giant, nearly impossible get into.)
 Local abbatoirs, besides feeling the pressure of land prices and unwelcoming neighbors, have to contend with unwieldy rules. A one-size-fits-all mentality dictates that mom-and-pop slaughterhouses must follow the same rules of inspection as industrial plants, even though these huge meat processors typically slaughter more cattle in a single hour (390 by Agriculture Department estimates) than their counterparts might see in a whole year.
 Legislation to approve state-inspected meats was introduced in the last session by Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri. His bill calls for the Agriculture Department to certify all satisfactory state-inspection programs, thus enabling the 2,000 existing state-inspected meat processors to enter the national market, and paving the way for many more. 
 His bill would help, but so would a farm bill that put up fewer roadblocks to smaller-scale livestock farms and pulled the veil back on where our food comes from. We stamp ''Made in the U.S.A.'' on blue jeans and cars -- but Americans can't find out where their food was grown. If Congress passes -- and enforces -- a rule in the 2007 bill requiring country of origin labeling, we'd be more informed about the origins of our food supply and, to the great fear of our corporate brethren, we might ask a lot more questions. Questions like ''Who's growing our food?'' and ''How's it being grown?'' are not easily answered anymore, especially when a package of frozen ground meat can have animal parts from as many as 20 countries. 
 Suggest to agribusiness interests that they think about flavor, though, and you're likely to be called an indulgent elitist who wants to force Americans to pay more for their food and an anti-progressive nostalgic for a bygone era of family farms.
 I SUPPOSE, as a chef, I'm guilty of being indulgent, but nothing like the over-indulgence of the farm bill. The meat we end up buying at the local farmers' market is relatively expensive because, through the workings of agricultural legislation, conventional meat prices are unnaturally low. I'm talking about the big boys -- the Smithfields, the Tysons and the Archer Daniels Midlands of the world -- which the farm bill subsidizes in the form of direct payments for grain (their feed is then artificially cheap). In doing that, we indirectly subsidize industrial farms' pollution; the health care costs (associated with animals bursting with corn fat, or animals reared on a constant cocktail of antibiotics); and the costs of insuring these companies against food-borne illness (brought on by a system that's run amok -- or should I say that runs in muck, with animals living in their own waste). 
 We need a farm bill that makes corporations internalize the costs they impose on society in the same way that they internalize their profits. 
 Some people argue that the desire to promote smaller, family-run local farms is gratuitously effete and nostalgic. That's just nonsense. It's the agriculture industry's mind-set -- high on capital, chemistry and machines -- that is actually old-fashioned. Just as the Industrial Revolution of factories with heavy machinery and billowing black smoke is yesterday's news, so too are our unsustainable farming operations. Nonetheless our legislators continue to marvel at how modern industrial farms have become, and to invest ever more of our tax dollars into them. 
 In place of these outmoded and untenable practices, we need a farm bill that promotes sustainable farming research. We need increased money for the existing Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program, as well as an overhauled version of the Initiative for Future Agriculture and Food Systems, a competitive grants program introduced in 1998 whose financing has since disappeared. These organizations encourage and finance innovative technologies to profit, and empower, the independent farmer. 
 We also need to ensure more money for things like the Conservation Security Program. Unlike most conservation programs that take land out of production, this one offers financial support to farmers who cultivate their fields in an environmentally sustainable manner. But enrollment in this program has been severely restricted since its 2002 inception, in large part because of $4 billion in budget cuts. That's a 50 percent cut in a program that supports the basic tenets of land, water and wildlife conservation -- tenets that go hand in hand with small-scale, chemical-free and crop-diverse agriculture.
 These are also the tenets that built the world's great cuisines -- Chinese, Italian, peasant French, Indian. Good gastronomy evolved out of good farming -- the best chefs have merely delivered on what farmers have worked out over several centuries. A tomato bursting with flavor, or an impossibly juicy leg of lamb, is no accident. If we're able to eventually clone that, great, but let's do it in the name of flavor, not corporate greed. 
 Right now, as members of Congress prepare to debate the details of the new farm bill, let's hope they allow the best examples of gastronomy to be their guide. Great farming, environmental stewardship and nutritious food will not be far behind.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Sahre)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (52%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Farmers ; Law and Legislation; Food; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: Dan Barber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



293 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Losing Iraq, One Truckload at a Time

BYLINE: By Luis Carlos Montalvan. 
Luis Carlos Montalvan is an Army captain.

DATELINE: FORT BENNING, GA. 

 BODY:
IN 1901, Gen. Leonard Wood, the American governor of occupied Cuba, wrote an incensed letter to President William McKinley after discovering deep corruption in the island's postal service. ''We have gone into Cuba to give these people an example of good government,'' Wood insisted. ''These thefts in the post office are so far the only blot on our record. Our honor as a nation demands that we bring the thieves to trial.'' He gave his commander in chief an ultimatum: ''If it is embarrassing to you to have me persist in this matter, I will resign.''
 About the only difference between Cuba then and Iraq today is that Wood's intervention resulted in the jailing of the culprits. The level of corruption in the Iraq Security Forces is staggering. The Iraq Study Group found that $5 billion to $7 billion is lost annually to different types of corruption, and yet ''there are still no examples of senior officials who have been brought before a court and convicted of corruption charges.'' The result: ''Economic development is hobbled by insecurity, corruption, lack of investment, dilapidated infrastructure and uncertainty.'' 
Yet of the study group's 79 recommendations, only two are much relevant to this problem, and no anticorruption milestones to be achieved were set forth. Having served in Iraq, I find this very disappointing. While I can't of course speak officially for the Pentagon, I can describe what I saw and give my own thoughts on how to improve things. 
 The most prominent forms of corruption I saw were Iraqi commanders pocketing the paychecks of nonexistent troops in the Iraqi Army and officers in the police forces, and customs officials abetting the smuggling of oil and precious rebuilding supplies across Iraq's porous borders. 
 These are vast problems, but some relatively simple solutions could tamp them down considerably.
 The greatest amount of corruption in the Iraq military and police forces occurs when payrolls are handed out at the unit level. Because the country doesn't have a functioning banking system that would allow easy money transfers to private accounts, military and security commanders receive large sums of cash every payroll period based on the number and rank of soldiers on their personnel rosters. The endemic problem is that commanders frequently put nonexistent soldiers and security personnel -- dubbed ''ghosts'' by American overseers -- on their rosters and pocket their salaries. 
 It is difficult to overstate how deeply these ghosts hurt the war effort. Most obviously, we have no idea how much of this money is being siphoned off to support tribal and ethnic fighting, and even the insurgency itself. 
 Also, because hundreds and thousands of ghosts exist at all echelons, many military and police units in the field do not have nearly as many men at arms as they seem to have on paper. Thus the units are often assigned tasks for which they do not have necessary manpower. And when American or other coalition forces are asked to ''partner'' with Iraqi troops, we have often found that there simply aren't enough bodies to conduct training and missions. 
 American officials have long been aware of this problem. ''The number of trained and equipped security forces does not provide a complete picture of their capabilities and may overstate the number of forces on duty,'' was the finding of the Government Accountability Office's ''Stabilizing Iraq'' report last fall. ''For example, Ministry of Interior data include police who are absent without leave.''
 Those of us on the ground discovered this the hard way. When I was with the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Nineveh Province in 2005, we tried for months to get the names of all Iraqi security personnel in our sector on the payrolls of the Ministries of Interior and Defense. We were curious because when we tried to assess the effectiveness of the Iraqi Border Police brigade in Sinjar, on the Syrian border, we were told by Iraqi commanders that at least 300 officers were ''performing guard duties in Mosul.'' Mosul is more than 100 miles inside Iraq, so border troops had no business there, if indeed they existed at all. 
 Similarly, in South Baghdad, we American advisers assigned to the Fourth Brigade of the Sixth Iraqi Army Division had little luck getting a clear read of the brigade's strength. Iraqi commanders repeatedly told us that many of their men were ''elsewhere, performing security duties for the Ministry of Defense.'' The advisers found personnel discrepancies as high as 30 percent in any given unit. 
 How can we bust the ghosts? Every soldier, police officer and government official is assigned a national identification number for bookkeeping, but so far it has been far too easy for corrupt officials to get numbers for nonexistent people. A better idea would be a universal national identification card for all government and military employees that includes the holder's photograph and fingerprints. 
 Such cards should be required for any Iraqi to receive his paycheck. Both the distribution of the cards and the payroll-distribution sites should be jointly overseen by coalition and Iraqi officials. There is no reason such a system could not be in place by the end of the year. 
 It would also help if American advisers embedded with security forces were charged with ensuring that all Iraqis are actually on duty with their assigned units. Should Iraqi commanders refuse to cooperate with their audits, we must insist that the Iraqi government fire them. 
 The second major source of corruption I witnessed is what I call the ''reverse Ho Chi Minh Trails'' that facilitate smuggling of Iraqi oil and other resources out of the country. A United States interagency panel reported in November that oil smuggling abetted by corrupt Iraqi customs officials is netting the insurgents $100 million a year, helping to make them financially self-sustaining.
 Because most of Iraq is landlocked, almost all goods going in and out pass through 14 land ''ports of entry.'' Smuggling has always been a part of Iraqi life, and was even more so during the last years of Saddam Hussein's rule, because he encouraged it to counteract the embargo on Iraqi oil. Yet, almost immediately after the 2003 invasion, former customs officials from the regime resumed their duties at the ports of entry. 
 Later that year, we in the Third Armored Cavalry were given responsibility for the Syrian, Jordanian and Saudi Arabian borders along Anbar Province. In addition to helping create the new Iraqi Border Police force, we set about reforming the customs checkpoints. 
 At first, this was successful: for example, the border police battalion we trained at Walid, near the conjunction of the Syrian and Jordanian borders, uncovered many attempts to smuggle out large quantities of food, fuel, industrial parts and other goods. Hundreds of smugglers were arrested.
 Unfortunately, we left Anbar in early 2004 and corrupt officials in Baghdad soon took away the border police's oversight authority on the grounds that it wasn't their ''jurisdictional role to conduct operations that were assigned exclusively to customs officials.'' American advisers at the national level failed to do anything about this, and things quickly reverted to the corrupt status quo. 
 The situation at Walid was hardly unique. In 2005 I returned to Iraq with the Third Armored Cavalry, this time to Nineveh Province, to cover the northern section of the border between Iraq and Syria. It soon became clear that the region's port of entry, at Rabiya, was a hotbed of corruption. Not only were customs officials apparently turning a blind eye to smuggling, but they seemed to be directly engaged in it.
 And little has changed: last month the American special inspector general for Iraq, Stuart Bowen, reported that the pipelines in the area have been blown up, so the only way to export oil is by road. He noted, ''That leaves it vulnerable to smuggling as truckers sell their cargoes on the black market.'' 
 How can we shut down this black market? First, we must insist that the Iraqi government replace the customs workers at the 14 land border crossings with a new set of at least 1,400 elite officials jointly selected and vetted by the Iraqi ministries and the coalition forces.
 We should supplement this new force with teams of American advisers -- soldiers, police officers, customs officials and the like -- to ensure that the Iraqis are prepared to do their jobs. And we should create an anticorruption task force of coalition officers with the power to periodically review systemic issues like the Iraqis' recruitment methods, policies governing potential ethical problems and records of internal discipline.
 The Iraq Study Group concluded that ''the ability of the United States to shape the outcomes is diminishing'' and that ''time is running out.'' Those of us who have been on the ground know how true this is. Irrespective of the number and mission of United States forces sent to Iraq, winning or losing will depend in large part on our ability to, in General Wood's phrasing, ''give these people an example of good government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POSTAL SERVICE (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



294 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Four Shows in One Celebrate Ethnic Diversity

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
The civic leaders of Westchester communities suffering from economic decline may want to look to the Bronx, where the opening of the Longwood Arts Project in the abandoned Public School 39 in 1981 drew artists to the area and paved the way, in the 1990s, for the neighborhood's renaissance.
 These days, the Bronx is home to a large concentration of artists, attracted by the affordable housing and a supportive cultural scene. 
''South Bronx Contemporary,'' at the Longwood Art Gallery, celebrates some of this talent, past and present. It is four shows in one. Three past directors of this nonprofit space -- Fred Wilson, Betti-Sue Hertz and Eddie Torres -- have teamed up with the current director, Edwin Ramoran, in curating four shows for the gallery's 25th anniversary. As a community-based art center, Longwood Art Gallery has a mission to support emerging artists from underrepresented groups. This is partly reflected in these new shows, which play up one of the borough's best-known assets: its dizzying ethnic diversity. The artists in the exhibitions are natives of more than a dozen countries.
 Though organized separately, the four shows, which feature works by more than 60 artists, hang together well. There is a certain uniformity of style and tone to the artworks that each of the curators have selected. Much of the work is conceptually oriented, and each show contains examples dealing with cultural differences, politics and performance. 
 The largest exhibition is ''Everyday Is Like Sunday.'' Organized by Mr. Ramoran, it includes work by a grab-bag, intergenerational group of artists living and working in the Bronx. Mr. Ramoran has also tried to include not only established artists, but also other, lesser-known players, among them amateur artists chosen through an open call, studio visits and recommendations.
 Among the participants who didn't train formally as artists is Sumathy Sundarababu, who works in the medical field and was inspired to take up oil painting by the popular PBS series ''The Joy of Painting,'' with Bob Ross, a popular television host who died in 1995, a few years after the show stopped taping. Like many of Mr. Ross's devotees, Ms. Sundarababu paints trite, happy landscapes with willowy trees and an aging farmhouse, among other features. She has never shown her art publicly before this exhibition. 
 Then there are artists who blur boundaries between professionals and hobbyists. Among them is Ernie Woo, who went to art school but decided to work outside the gallery and market systems by making art on commission. Mr. Ramoran saw him painting T-shirts on 161st Street, by Yankee Stadium, and invited him to participate in the show. The T-shirt Mr. Woo is exhibiting here has a painted skull and bats, crossed like bones, with a Yankees cap -- a reference to the Yankees' proposal to take public land to build a new stadium.
 Other artists are working professionals, but just aren't shown much since they are not plugged into the art gallery system or are too busy working to make a living. This goes for many of the painters here, from Ptah Miller, Diane Davis, Isaac Garcia-Lanzo and Wilda Gonzalez to Francisco Vallejo and Eilis Soto. Most of them do portraiture, in particular, figures within nature.
 Mr. Ramoran envisioned his exhibition as a professional development project, promoting and encouraging artists who might not ordinarily be invited to exhibit in a mainstream gallery or museum. This is largely how Longwood Arts Project was originally conceived. Mr. Wilson, the gallery's first director and now a successful artist, also takes up the cause, organizing a show of the work of artists dealing with the concept of blackness and black identity.
 Mr. Wilson's exhibition, in the back room, is titled ''Black Now,'' and takes its cues from discussions of black identity since the late 1990s, asking what it means to talk about ''blackness'' now. His response is joking and mystifying, for he has juxtaposed works that deal directly with the African-American experience with others that use the color black or have the word black in their titles. 
 The upshot is an engaging, if on occasion glib exhibition that riffs on the elusive concept of blackness. Exhibits range from one of Kara Walker's earnest off-set prints of slaves silhouetted against a Civil War-era landscape, to Rashawn Griffin's video performance of a figure, dressed in an outfit made of puffed-up black garbage bags, picking flowers in a field. He looks ridiculous.
 The other two exhibitions are smaller, more tightly focused. One, titled ''Iconoclasmic,'' features works by artists who use pop-culture images and materials like nail polish, rhinestones, comics and advertisements. The other, and the more interesting of the two, is ''Street Disturbance.'' Organized by Ms. Hertz, it consists of works by an artist and those of two artist collectives, which work in the public domain and use humor and agitprop to address social and political issues. It consists mostly of videos, accompanied by photographic and text documentation. 
 ''Street Disturbance'' is the kind of exhibition one expects from a young, alternative space like Longwood. It is irreverent and provocative. One of the collectives -- Surveillance Camera Players, formed in 1996 -- draws attention to all kinds of invisible social control, most commonly by performing skits in front of security cameras at various public sites, including subways and street corners; a video of a 1998 skit is shown here.
 It is great to see that a counterculture is alive and kicking.

''South Bronx Contemporary,'' Longwood Art Gallery, 450 Grand Concourse, the Bronx, through March 10. Information: (718) 518-6728 or longwood@bronxarts.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ECLECTIC -- Above, view of video by Rashawn Griffin in ''Black Now''
left, T-shirt painted with skull and bats by Ernie Woo
top, ''Crest of Pine Mountain, Where General Polk Fell'' by Kara Walker
right, installation video and posters by Etcetera in ''Street Disturbance''
and below, ''Reclining Form,'' a sculpture by Chester Urban. (Photos by Bronx Council on the Arts)
(Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Sikkema Jenkins & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Longwood Art Gallery (Bronx, NY)

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



295 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Facts

BYLINE: By Rachel A. Volberg. 
Rachel A. Volberg is the president of an organization that studies the effects of gambling on communities.

DATELINE: Northampton, Mass. 

 BODY:
FOR most people gambling is an enjoyable -- if occasional -- experience. But for some, gambling leads to debilitating problems. 
 At its most serious, problem gambling has been recognized as a psychiatric disorder. Yet very few comprehensive studies of the impacts of gambling (both positive and negative) have been carried out, probably because -- as the National Gambling Impact Study Commission pointed out in 1999 -- regulating gambling is viewed as a state issue and few states have the resources or political will to finance such studies.
I have spent more than 20 years studying gambling and, to my knowledge, Connecticut is the only jurisdiction ever to mandate that impact studies of legal gambling be conducted every five years. Starting in 1981, four impact studies -- including one in 1991 in which I was involved -- have been carried out in Connecticut. However, each one was done so differently that it was impossible to draw any hard and fast conclusions about changes in the impact of legal gambling over time. 
 In 2001, in the face of budget constraints, the state reneged on its pledge to conduct these periodic surveys; no gambling impact study has been carried out in Connecticut since 1996. This was a mistake, especially when the state's gambling industry has brought in more than $600 million annually to Connecticut's general fund since 2002. 
 There is some good news. The State Senate has recently set aside money to study the impact of gambling in Connecticut. As officials prepare to carry out the study, here are some things they should keep in mind.
 Quantifying the effects of legal gambling is a complex task. An international review of gambling impact studies that my colleagues and I are doing for the British government has highlighted several important issues. 
 First, every jurisdiction is unique and any impact study must be designed to answer, as comprehensively as possible, the questions deemed most important by its policymakers and citizens. Second, account must be taken of the socio-economic impacts of all of the different types of gambling available, rather than focusing narrowly on one or another form of gambling.
 Third, it is impossible to account fully for all of the social benefits or costs associated with gambling since some of the effects defy quantification and the negative impacts often take much longer to emerge than positive ones like revenue flowing into state coffers. Fourth, while the relationship between gambling availability and the prevalence of problem gambling is poorly understood, research suggests that there is a substantial lag between the introduction of a new form of gambling and the emergence of new problem gamblers. This underscores the importance of conducting uniform studies on a regular basis. 
 What we have learned by looking at the few exemplary gambling impact studies conducted internationally is that the cost of a high-quality study far surpasses the $350,000 that Connecticut is pledging to spend; that the best studies are awarded competitively and carried out by large, multidisciplinary teams from independent research organizations with close involvement of gambling researchers; and that consideration of a range of issues, including economics, crime, public health and culture and community impacts is necessary. 
 It is also important to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups. For instance, people who are socially and economically disadvantaged are often hurt the most by legal gambling. And most significant, any gambling impact study must be accompanied by recommendations for change that are put into action and assessed for their effectiveness in reducing the harm caused by gambling.
 Those of us concerned about the effects of gambling applaud the effort in Connecticut to reclaim its early leadership role in studying the impacts of legal gambling. But to avoid repeating mistakes, Senate leaders must ensure that sufficient resources are made available in Connecticut and that the study is done to the highest standards, maintaining comparability with what was done previously in the state as well as with studies across the nation and around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%) Gambling; Research; Finances; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Rachel A Volberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



296 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Show Some Respect For Long Island Wines

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I'd like to note my objections to both the premise and substance of ''How to End Long Island's Sour Vintages,'' by Lisa Granik (Op-Ed, Jan. 7). 
There may be other factors such as illness and old age that weigh into an owner's decision to sell a vineyard property. Ms. Granik jumped to the conclusion that because there are a number of properties for sale, then something is rotten with the industry and by extension its winemakers. I strongly disagree.
 As I start my 10th vintage as a Long Island winemaker, I feel more strongly than ever that our focus should remain on producing high-quality merlot, cabernet franc and Meritage blends with a Long Island identity. Ms. Granik, in fact, was part of a distinguished tasting panel that rated a Long Island producer of merlot nearly equal to that of Chateau Petrus, yet she dismisses the region as a great producer of merlot, and ignores Long Island's unique ability to become a world-class producer of cabernet franc.

Adam Suprenant
Peconic

To the Editor:
 The Long Island wine industry is certainly not in decline because a few of our wineries are on the market. There are various factors cited by owners of those particular properties -- personal reasons being the most prevalent -- but there is definitely no overall trend to abandon a region so painstakingly developed. 
 Lisa Granik also suggests that Long Island is not producing the styles of wine that are receiving critical and consumer acclaim. In fact, beyond the many accolades received by individual wineries every year, our region is generating significant positive media coverage across the country. 
 Regarding pricing, many of our wines sell for less than $20, and those that are priced higher to reflect more limited production have been found by critics to be of excellent value compared to the competition. Consumers seem to agree as many wineries recorded their highest sales ever in 2006. 
 Finally, the idea that our region should seek a foothold in Manhattan has been an objective from the beginning, resulting in many of our wines being offered in prominent restaurants and wine stores throughout the city.

Robert Palmer
President
Long Island Wine Council
Riverhead

To the Editor:
 I am a resident of the North Fork of Long Island, an amateur oenophile and a consumer of our local wines who appreciates the uniqueness of the vintages that many of our local wineries produce. I take issue with Lisa Granik's generalizations about the region and its wines. 
 Contrary to the headline's assertion that Long Island wines are ''sour vintages,'' many of our wineries have won awards for their excellent and diverse product. Our vineyards are the agricultural jewels of the North Fork that not only provide a significant economic impact on the region, but also help to preserve its natural beauty and prevent the development that might otherwise occur. I sincerely hope that they will continue to thrive for generations to come. 

Jerry Bilinski
Wading River

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (76%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Adam Suprenant; Robert (Long Island Wine Council) Palmer; Jerry Bilinski; Lisa Granik

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



297 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5528 words

HEADLINE: A Sliver of a Storefront, A Faith on the Rise

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
The storefront, it turned out, was more front than store: a drug den masquerading as an auto-sound business. And the sight of six hoodlums being paraded out in handcuffs was sadly familiar among the brick tenements of west Harlem. 
 But for Danilo Florian, who stumbled upon the police raid in November 2002, it was nothing less than a revelation.
''This could be a church,'' he muttered. ''Lord, that is the place.'' 
 Mr. Florian, a factory worker by day and a pastor by night, was desperate to find a home for his small congregation, which faced eviction from its dank basement sanctuary. In a lucky confluence of real estate and religion, he tracked down the storefront's building manager, cajoled him into a five-year lease at a nice rent and even talked him into joining the church. 
 Now, on most nights when the neighborhood winds down to rest, the fluorescent lights inside the room flicker to life, and the spartan, whitewashed space rattles under a sonic barrage of prayers, yelps and tambourines. As a teenage band pounds out bouncy Latin rhythms, men in crisp business suits that belie their dreary day jobs triumphantly pump their fists. Women in flowing skirts shout, stomp and gyrate wildly. The air crackles.
 The congregation, made up mostly of immigrants from the Dominican Republic, has grown to about 60, and they are bent on converting many more. For they are living Pentecostalism, the world's fastest-growing branch of Christianity, with a fervor and sense of destiny that resonate in the grand name they have chosen: the Pentecostal Church Ark of Salvation for the New Millennium. 
 Among them are reformed drug dealers and womanizers, cafeteria workers who earn barely enough to pay the bills and women whose sons or husbands are in prison. What they share inside this unlikely temple on Amsterdam Avenue near 133rd Street is a faith in God, in miracles and in one another. Religion here is not some sober, introspective journey or Sunday chore, but a raucous communal celebration that spills throughout the week.
 Storefront churches like this have become part of the streetscape in New York and around the globe in recent decades. Tiny and makeshift, they sprout up almost overnight, wedged in among the bodegas and takeout counters. Just in these few blocks of Harlem, there are at least seven others.
 Yet ''los aleluyas,'' as the Pentecostals are called by their neighbors, sometimes dismissively, remain mysterious to outsiders -- their intensity scary to some, comical to others. They can dress plainly, shun the simplest pleasures and warn of imminent catastrophe for those who are not born again. Children preach like adults, and adults wail like children. Here one day, their churches may be gone the next.
 This is the story of one such church: its people, its pastor, their fight to survive and the emotional, sometimes extreme religion that fires them night after night. 
 It is also the story of Hispanic faith in the 21st century, seen in tight focus. Though Pentecostalism, a strain of evangelical Christianity, was born a century ago in Kansas and is often associated with the stereotypical ''holy rollers'' of the Bible Belt, it has made deep inroads in Asia and Africa. In this hemisphere, its numbers and growth are strongest among Latinos in the United States and in Latin America, where it is eroding the traditional dominance of the Roman Catholic Church. 
 Experts believe there are roughly 400 million Pentecostals worldwide, and this year, the number in the city is expected to surpass 850,000 -- about one in every 10 New Yorkers, one-third of them Hispanic. Precise numbers, however, are hard to come by because there are scores of denominations and no central governing body. 
 Although several large Pentecostal organizations like the Assemblies of God have bureaucracies, colleges and legions of missionaries, about 80 percent of all Pentecostals belong to small or independent congregations. They have aggressively courted the poor, and imparted a work ethic that is nudging their members into the middle class and beyond. 
 Here, in cramped storefronts like Ark of Salvation, people whose lives are as marginal as their neighborhoods discover a joyful intimacy often lacking in big churches. They find help -- with the rent, child care or finding a job. As immigrants, they find their own language and music, as well as the acceptance and recognition that often elude them on the outside. 
 They find the discipline and drive to make a hard life livable.
 To spend a year with this congregation is to see a teenage single mother and party girl discover the strength to go to college, marry in the church and land a job. It is to see a former political radical and brawler pray over alcoholics in the park. It is to see the 50-year-old pastor roaming the city, driving the church's van to gather members for Bible class or trolling for converts outside an upper Broadway subway station -- to keep the Ark afloat, and growing.
 That growth could have profound implications. The Ark and other storefronts are already draining Catholic and mainline Protestant churches of the urban immigrants who have long filled their pews. Their striving members could refigure the political calculus of New York or even the nation, turning a historically liberal Hispanic population into a force for conservatism. 
 Then again, any of these churches could vanish, victim to a rent increase, a fickle landlord or a financial setback. They are trying to thrive in New York, of all places, where poor neighborhoods are gentrifying and housing prices are soaring, where strangers can be hostile and, on this block, dangerous. Their demanding creed, with its rigid moral code and almost daily churchgoing, can split families and alienate friends.
 The souls who worship at 1463 Amsterdam Avenue have gotten by for six years on their faith, their wits and whatever breaks -- even a drug bust -- come their way. As they chase outsize dreams of a bigger building and a far bigger flock, they are guided only by Scripture and a quiet man who assures them that the meek really shall inherit the earth.
 ''We are not complacent,'' Pastor Florian explained. ''We are more ambitious than Rockefeller.''

The Spirit of a Crusade
 Pass through the drab metal doorway, behind the tightly drawn blinds, and the storefront starts to look like a church. Heavy green drapes flank a worn pulpit. Packed tightly below are dozens of chipped wooden chairs cadged from a Midtown bar. 
 And much of the worship here looks like any Christian service, if several notches higher in volume and passion. One recent Sunday, quiet prayers in Spanish gave way to singing, Bible readings and testimony from the congregation, then a collection, a sermon and a final blessing from the pastor.
 But during the blessing, the band's hypnotic beat quickened. Prayers became cries of ''Glory to God!'' The crowd pressed forward, and a thicket of hands strained to touch the pastor's outstretched arm. Some women began to quiver and shake, their ponytails whipping from side to side. 
 The room grew hot, and a strange sound came rumbling from up front.
 ''Omshalamamom!'' shouted Lucrecia Perez, her hand thrust into the air, her eyes clenched shut. ''Shambalashalama.''
 She was speaking in tongues, an ecstatic and indecipherable flood of syllables that often erupts during intense worship -- brought on, the faithful believe, by the presence of the Holy Spirit, part of the divine Trinity. Though uncommon or unheard of in most other Christian churches -- even dismissed as hokum by some ministers -- it is celebrated here as the very mystery that gives the faith its name. 
 On the day known as the Pentecost, according to the New Testament, the Holy Spirit descended on the disciples after Christ's resurrection, allowing them to speak in languages unknown to them. Later Christians occasionally broke into garbled prayer or prophecy, to the approval or alarm of church authorities, but it took nearly 2,000 years for the phenomenon to light a spark. 
 On New Year's Day in 1901, a woman in Topeka, Kan., began speaking in tongues during a Bible-school prayer vigil and did not let up for three days. Pentecostal groups formed, and in 1906, a preacher named William J. Seymour started a series of jubilant meetings in Los Angeles, called the Azusa Street Revival, that are now credited with propelling the faith throughout the world.
 Like other evangelicals, Pentecostals assert the Bible's word-for-word authority, the need to accept Christ and the duty to share that faith with others before the end days, when the born-again will be whisked up to heaven in what they call the rapture. 
 But they differ in their intense conviction that the Holy Spirit descends on believers and blesses them with extraordinary gifts, especially the power to speak in tongues, that prepare them for those dark days, when everyone else will be left behind to suffer.
 The message can be grim. The strictest Pentecostals -- and Ark of Salvation has several ''rajatablas,'' as they are called -- can come across as humorless scolds, dressing severely and rejecting any distraction from God: television, popular music, even too much work.
 If that were all Pentecostalism offered, the storefronts would be empty. 
 But the gloom is tempered by a noisy, collective joy born of the belief that the faithful will be blessed in this world and the next. That joy lends a sense of freedom, and often abandon, to services at the Ark, where people break into song or their own spur-of-the-moment prayers.
 Music flows through everything -- not solemn hymns, but brassy Caribbean tunes. In fact, some sound exactly like the songs that hard-core members condemn -- the pop and salsa on Spanish-language radio -- but with religious lyrics that are repeated so breathlessly that some singers faint.
 That ability to harness the local music and culture is one reason for Pentecostalism's swift spread around the world.
 ''It takes in everything and absorbs it,'' said the Rev. Dale T. Irvin, president of the New York Theological Seminary. ''You get as a result this extraordinary emergence of churches.'' 
 In New York, the ranks of Pentecostals have grown 45 percent since 1995, said Tony Carnes, president of the International Research Institute on Values Changes in New York City, an independent group financed largely by foundations that has been surveying churches since 1989.
 Pentecostals became the city's largest group of born-again Christians in the mid-1990s, and within a few years, a new storefront church was opening every three weeks in the South Bronx, he said. The 9/11 attacks set off a fresh growth spurt.
 Another factor in that growth worldwide is the way the faith reaches out to people on society's edges and gives them vital roles. Unlike Catholics and some evangelical Christians, Pentecostals let women preach and lead; Mr. Florian's co-pastor is his wife, Mirian. The humblest member can take the pulpit to share testimony, a prayer or a poem. Recently, an 8-year-old girl preached excitedly to a rapt congregation, then laid her hands in blessing on a new convert. 
 Mr. Florian himself has few credentials other than three years of night-school Bible classes and a wrenching sense of duty. A lapsed Catholic from the Dominican Republic, he joined a small Pentecostal church 16 years ago after his 7-year-old daughter survived a grave bout with encephalitis. Six years ago he and eight others left that church and founded the Ark in the basement of a building riddled with rats. 
 The congregation, which draws members from all over Upper Manhattan and the Bronx, moved to its street-level space four years ago thanks to the drug raid, and a willingness to seize on opportunities. That pragmatism is also reflected in its religious practices, which are more moderate than in many other storefront churches.
 While the Ark forbids smoking, drinking and dancing and discourages flashy clothes and jewelry, it issues few other edicts. While its members believe that Satan -- the enemy, they call him -- is as real as God, they conduct no exorcisms, as in some churches. 
 While some members speak in tongues, most do not, including Pastor Florian, a low-key man who explained the experience in surprisingly down-to-earth terms. ''It is like a fax talking to another fax,'' he said. ''Tongues are not a human language. It is your spirit speaking with God.''
 And while nearly everyone in the congregation works and puts something into the brass bowls that are passed around at every service, Mr. Florian makes none of the urgent appeals for money -- or promises of windfalls or miracles -- that drive some churches. The pastor, who still works his factory job decorating expensive handbags, takes no salary from the church.
 Not that the Ark celebrates poverty. Members are told that hard work and frugal living will be rewarded, perhaps not lavishly, but adequately. The dress code for services is decidedly white collar: suits for the men, long skirts for the women. Children are urged to excel in school, and the pastor boasts of the several college graduates in the church -- refuting what he says is the notion that born-again Christians are simple-minded.
 ''When you are a professional, people have no idea how you can be a believer,'' he said. ''The Gospel is not just for the poor. God is not a God of the ignorant.''
 The poor do get help, from the church's meager savings account or from other members; it is not unusual to see a small wad of cash passed from hand to hand after services. But unlike many larger churches, the Ark has neither the mission nor the money to dispense charity to the needy outside -- except as a means to convert them.
 And its members, proud and stoic, are reluctant to accept handouts. When Ms. Perez, the woman who spoke in tongues, had her hours as a home health aide cut back, she and her daughter Genesis moved into a homeless shelter for eight months. For weeks before their eviction, she asked the congregation for prayers, but barely hinted at her plight.
 ''I can't ask them for money,'' said Ms. Perez, 46. ''They don't have it to lend. They need what they have for a new church.''
 Last April, Pedro Garces, the building manager and a church member, found her an affordable studio. Whatever happens, members are constantly reminded, the Ark will bear them up.
 ''We will never be alone,'' Pastor Florian said one night during Bible study. ''That is God's promise.''

Hotheads and Warm Hearts
 The first to arrive, as usual, was Ramon Romero. On a Thursday evening in July that was still hot and sticky at 6:30, he walked slowly from his apartment to the church, past reminders of the life he had left behind. Two laborers lounged on a grimy stoop, sipping beer, as men outside a bodega argued politics, and raunchy reggaeton music thumped from passing cars.
 Mr. Romero, a handsome man of 73 and a founding member of the Ark, rolled up the church's metal gate and slipped into the silence inside. The others would soon arrive -- with their own reasons for coming and their own styles of worship -- but this was his time and his way. He knelt and clasped the slatted back of a wooden chair, his lips emitting no more than a low rasp.
 That rasp, which can rise to a growl, is one hint that this stern, stony-faced man was once a scrapper. A strict father, he let his wife coddle the children, as he put it, while he wielded the strap. He was tough outside the home, too, active in leftist politics and unions in the Dominican Republic before he moved here in the mid-1960s.
 ''I was someone who did everything except stain my hands with blood,'' Mr. Romero said. ''I was a hothead.''
 He paid for it. His efforts fighting the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo landed him in jail for seven months, he said. While driving a Pepsi-Cola route in the Dominican Republic, he helped workers unionize and strike for fair pay, but the bottling company lured everyone back to work, he said, then fired him -- with the support of the same workers he had organized. 
 Years later, feeling betrayed by politics and worried about his wife's depression, he let a nurse bring her pastor to their home one night to pray. Mr. Romero converted quickly, with the same intensity he had brought to politics. 
 His wife, Esperanza, took longer to let go of her Roman Catholicism, particularly the room she had filled with statues of saints -- worthless idols, according to Pentecostals, who believe that people should pray directly to God. Mr. Romero persuaded his wife that the statues had to go. 
 ''I went in that room with a hammer, and I broke every saint that was there,'' he recalled. ''I smashed a table, a fountain full of water, an expensive one. I broke it all. I tied it up in a bag and tossed it in the farthest dump.''
 He paused at the memory. ''And nothing happened to me.'' 
 His wife died in 1999, but her name is still on the downstairs buzzer. In their sparely furnished apartment, Mr. Romero passes the time reading the Bible and, with a tinge of guilt, watching sports. His five children -- some live nearby, and one is in the congregation -- hardly talk to him. He wonders if he may have been a bit too strict. 
 But no matter. This night, as he settled into his regular seat near the front, he had achieved a kind of peace.
 By then he had been joined by another early bird, Ramona Campana, who enjoys the church's sociability as much as its spirituality. As others entered, Ms. Campana, 73, looked up from her Bible, smiled and extended a hand. An elegant woman, she wore a long skirt and matching jacket whose only embellishment was a golden brooch bearing a cross and a lamb, the church's logo. 
 When she arrived in New York from the Dominican Republic 35 years ago, she worked in a hotel laundry, ironing until her eyes stung from the steam. Her lunch included a bottle of Heineken stashed in her purse. She played the numbers. And, she said, she practiced the sort of once-a-week Catholicism that was more habit than conviction.
 ''You can sit next to me, and when the service is over you don't even know my name,'' she said. ''You don't ask, 'How are you?' It's foom, and you're out.''
 That ended one day in the Bronx that was so jarring she still recalls the date: June 12, 1993. Ms. Campana and her daughter had gone to the wake of a relative who had converted to Pentecostalism on his deathbed. Most Christian wakes focus on the deceased, but the faithful at this service turned away from the open coffin and crusaded for new members, offering a stark choice: Accept Christ or spend eternity in hell. 
 Moved by the congregation's passion -- ''I saw unity in them,'' she said -- she joined a Pentecostal group. After moving to 141st Street years later, widowed and alone, she heard about a new church in a nearby basement and went out asking, ''Where are the aleluyas?'' until she found the Ark. 
 ''It's good,'' she said, ''to be in a place where they see you not by how you look, but by what's in your heart.''
 As this evening's service started, Ms. Campana lost herself in song, smacking a battered tambourine and swaying in rhythm. Like several other women, she was so taken with the prayers and music that she doubled over, feet stomping and arms flailing, until her neighbors eased her back up.
 But others' worship was as varied as their lives. Young mothers sang cheerily alongside their fidgeting children. Grandmothers prayed aloud nonstop, as if in a running conversation with the Almighty. Two teenage boys exchanged a laugh. Near the front, Roy Guzman, a 25-year-old engineer who works for an international consulting company, sat motionless, immersed in his Bible.
 ''I don't just want to feel this,'' he said later, a little sheepishly. ''That could be a flaw, but I like to have an intellectual knowledge of what I'm doing.''
 And then there was his cousin Chislen Pena, a normally soft-spoken young woman who fairly explodes when her time comes to preach. 
 Dressed austerely -- long black skirt, pulled-back hair, no earrings or makeup -- she paces the narrow stage with nervous energy, shouting, slapping her Bible and tossing her head back. She will pause, freeze the congregation in her gaze, then break into a grin and yell, ''Aleluya!'' 
 She is joyful -- fiercely, severely joyful -- even if her life has been anything but.
 Ms. Pena, 28, had her first child when she was 14, with a man who ended up in prison for murder. She had a daughter with another man who was deported for dealing drugs. She married for the first time soon afterward, only to divorce when her husband told her he had H.I.V. Her brother is in jail for murder.
 ''I once tried to kill myself,'' she said. ''I heard little voices telling me to do it.''
 She found her faith through an uncle, and like other Pentecostals, she preaches about her life to show that no one is beyond help. In the pulpit at one service, her voice hoarse and her forehead sweaty, she told of waiting for the results of her H.I.V. tests.
 ''I said forgive me -- He forgave me,'' she said, to rising applause. ''Praise the Lord! And the tests kept coming back negative! And negative! And negative!''
 After the service, people lingered for conversation and food, hugging and thanking her. They all knew she had returned to school, earned a college diploma and found a job as a counselor in a drug treatment center. 
 Remarried in 2004 to a fellow Pentecostal, she was expecting her third child, a boy they planned to name after an Old Testament prophet who warned of impending punishment.
 Just saying the name made her smile.
 ''Jeremiah,'' she said.

Saving 'el Mundo'
 The end is near. This is actually good news at Ark of Salvation: At the start of the earth's final days, they believe, a trumpet blast will herald the rapture. But for those left behind, the Book of Revelation and sermons at the church lay out a litany of horrors that will follow: plagues, poisoned rivers, smoke that will pour from the earth and blot out the skies.
 The Ark's ultimate mission, then, is to save the nonbelievers -- not just for their sake, but for the church's. To keep going, Pastor Florian says, the Ark must grow.
 So as much as its members mistrust and revile the secular world -- ''el mundo,'' as they call it -- they must leave the church's embrace to spread the word to anyone, anywhere, anytime. 
 ''God sometimes sends you to places you do not want to go to -- like you have to go somewhere where you can be robbed,'' the pastor reminded them one night with a smile, shrieking in mock terror: ''Oh, no! Not 134th Street!''
 They exhort relatives and friends, schoolmates and co-workers, with promises of hope or warnings of damnation. They hold weekly services in people's apartments and invite neighbors. In good weather, they haul out the drums and amplifiers and preach on the sidewalk. They walk up to strangers in parks and supermarkets.
 Eneida Vasquez was window-shopping at a 99-cent store one day when she spotted Kenia Ledesma, a sad-eyed woman with three young daughters and a rocky marriage. She walked up to the stranger, told her she was not alone and hugged her. Ms. Ledesma joined the church that week.
 But the congregation leaves little to chance. One July afternoon, three teenagers sat in the church, neatly sorting piles of religious tracts. One girl stamped the Ark's address onto the leaflets, which are printed in Spanish with color photos and graphics.
 ''We order them from the Dominican Republic, 10 for a penny,'' Pastor Florian explained. ''They are bigger and different from the ones you usually see around here. That way, when someone gets it they can't say, 'Oh, I saw this already.' ''
 Before the teenagers headed out in small groups, he gave them precise instructions: Approach the person with a smile. Hold out the tract with the cover facing up. Leave with a ''God bless you.''
 The payoff, however, was slim. Everyone could see the aleluyas coming, by their dress, their smiles, their persistence. Some neighbors were polite, but from others they got snubs, catcalls or worse.
 Outside El Mundo, a store on Broadway that sells $100 suits and $10 dresses, a drunken man glared at Frankie Lora and Stephanie Dionisio, both 16. He cocked his head and leered at Stephanie.
 ''You good?'' he taunted. ''You good?''
 She fumbled for a tract, the one that said drunkards will never enter heaven. As he staggered off, cursing, Stephanie turned to Frankie. ''Tell him Jesus loves him,'' she pleaded. ''Tell him!''
 On days like this, members console themselves with the knowledge that they did their duty. Maybe, they speculate, the person they approached in the park joined another storefront -- for there is little sense of competition among the neighborhood's many Pentecostal congregations, which sponsor events together and visit one another. 
 That camaraderie, however, does not extend to the institution that once loomed large in so many members' lives: the Catholic Church. Pentecostals believe that Catholics and many Protestants will not be joining them in the rapture. Only born-again Christians, they say, will be saved.
 Pastor Florian does not preach much about other faiths, and in fact his three children have attended Catholic schools on scholarships. But his feelings are clear. The day after Pope John Paul II died in April 2005, the pastor began his sermon with a pointed remark.
 ''We are not sad,'' he said. ''Our leader is not dead. Our leader is Jesus Christ. And he is alive!''
 Around the corner is the Church of the Annunciation, a thriving Catholic parish where Mexicans and Dominicans make up most of the roughly 1,100 worshipers who fill its sanctuary on Sundays.
 Its pastor, the Rev. Jose Maria Clavero, knows that the Catholic Church has lost many Latinos to Pentecostalism, but he sees those converts as nominal Catholics who were never part of any parish. ''If they are taking in people who were not anywhere, blessed be God,'' he said. ''At least they are in church.''
 He and other priests, remembering when large parishes were the vibrant heart of New York immigrant life, give the small storefronts credit for building intimate, supportive communities in some of the city's most forlorn neighborhoods. And Annunciation, like many Catholic and mainline Protestant churches around the world, has even embraced Pentecostalism's ardent worship style, as part of the charismatic renewal movement that began in the 1960s. 
 A small charismatic group meets for prayer every Monday, and Father Clavero makes a point of attending. At first it was to keep the group in check; he was alarmed by what he saw as an overemphasis on healing and miracles -- the same sort of zeal that makes Pastor Florian nervous.
 But the group has matured, the priest said, and its exuberant songs echo through the church each Sunday.
 ''It lifts you up,'' he said. ''You'd have to be a stone not to feel it. They give life.''

The Politics of Purity
 The sidewalks along St. Nicholas Avenue were thick with weekend shoppers and booming with music. Slowly, a faint background rumbling grew into a roar as 200 people strode into the middle of the street, part of the annual ''Great March for Christ'' in Washington Heights.
 ''A Christ who is against adultery!'' hollered a Pentecostal preacher leading the procession. ''A Christ who is against homosexuality! That is the Jesus we represent.''
 The marchers -- including a delegation from Ark of Salvation -- prayed, sang and urged repentance. Some scurried to hand out tracts and invitations to a religious rally. 
 But while they wooed the public, one figure was courting them. Adriano Espaillat, a Democratic assemblyman then running for Manhattan borough president, stood among them, casting for votes, not souls.
 ''God bless you,'' Mr. Espaillat said with a quick handshake to each marcher. ''God bless you.''
 Pastor Florian turned his back on him.
 ''He is a politician,'' he said curtly. ''I cannot even look at him.''
 The prevailing image of evangelical Christians in America is one of militant churches and politically ambitious leaders, like the Rev. Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, who have built a national base of like-minded Christians determined to shape public policy, especially on sexual issues.
 But while Pentecostals strongly oppose abortion and gay marriage, they have a long history of shunning political involvement. Though some notable Pentecostals have run for office -- John Ashcroft on the right and the Rev. Al Sharpton on the left -- most politicians are seen as agents of the secular world.
 ''I think Pentecostals realize ultimately their trust is in God and not in politics,'' said Loida Martell-Otero, a theology professor at Palmer Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania. ''The people in power have traditionally rendered them powerless.''
 That has not stopped political leaders from trying to convert them, especially in cities like New York, where Latino Pentecostals are seen as a large and growing bloc that could turn to either party. Republicans invoke causes like banning abortion and gay marriage, while Democrats promote economic programs for the poor who fill so many storefront churches.
 Pentecostals do vote, and are eager for more involvement, according to a study released in October by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, which found that 79 percent of Pentecostals wanted religious groups to speak out on political issues. 
 In New York, the poverty and independence of many Pentecostal churches have kept them from coalescing, said Mr. Carnes, whose International Research Institute on Values Changes has studied their growth. But Pentecostals are teaching a tireless work ethic, he said, that will vault them -- especially their children -- into more professional and managerial jobs in coming years, and make them a major economic and social force.
 The next step, Mr. Carnes said, could be leveraging that force into political clout. ''The key for these pastors will be to connect up with disaffected leaders in the centers of power -- some councilman or businessman looking for something different,'' he said. ''You could have a huge change in the city.''
 Now, though, many pastors are torn.
 Mr. Florian would love to have a soup kitchen or an after-school center for teenagers, and the congregation turned to its city councilman, a Democrat, for help in finding a bigger building to house them. But they dropped the effort after the councilman invited them to help out at a neighborhood health fair, and the pastor learned they would not be allowed to preach there. 
 ''I only want to do things for the Lord,'' Mr. Florian said. ''I do not like to ask any man for favors.''
 He and other storefront pastors would seem natural allies for the Republican Party, which has courted Latino Pentecostals, political analysts say, with government grants for churches that run ''faith-based'' social services. But the Ark, like most small churches, has neither the space nor the staff for such programs.
 Mr. Florian says he supports President Bush ''for his principles,'' and has urged his congregation to vote for candidates who share their moral values. But he cannot vote; though he is a legal resident and says he intends to become a citizen as his wife did, he has not assembled the paperwork.
 And unlike many Christian ministers, he has little to say about most public issues: Iraq, terrorism, even immigration. He and others at the Ark are busy enough with the troubles they see in their own streets and homes: crime, drugs, splintered families. 
 In fact, before abortion and gay rights dominated political discourse, Latino Pentecostals in New York invariably supported liberal candidates who reached out, as they did, to the poor and forgotten.
 Today, the Rev. Ruben Diaz, one of the first Pentecostals to venture into New York politics, pursues evangelicals with a mix of social-spending liberalism and family-values conservatism. A Democratic state senator from the Bronx, Mr. Diaz warns that his party's support for gay marriage and abortion rights could alienate his religious constituents.
 ''The evangelical churches will be the Achilles' heel of the Democratic Party,'' he said, ''unless it opens the door to a segment of the population who does not think exactly like them.''
 There is no doubt where the Ark stands. Yet even on the moral issues that matter most to the congregation, Pastor Florian has little faith that a political party or sprawling bureaucracy can get the job done. He is even wary of close ties to other religious groups with their own agendas. 
 So for now, at least, the Ark will go its own way -- the slow way -- as it tries to save the world and realize its Rockefeller ambitions. Praying and singing. Supporting one another. Approaching strangers on the street. Changing minds and hearts, one by one.
 After one fruitless afternoon handing out tracts, a girl in the congregation ran up to tell Pastor Florian that a woman had promised to visit the church. His face lit up.
 ''Do you know what it is to save a soul?'' he asked. ''Just one soul? Priceless.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A graphic about the growth of Pentecostalism that accompanied an article yesterday about a storefront church in Harlem referred imprecisely to the beliefs of evangelicals. Some evangelicals believe in the literal truth of the Bible; not all do.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Worship often erupts into fervent testimony, shouts and song at the Ark of Salvation, a small Pentecostal church in Harlem.
NEXT IN THE SERIES -- Danilo Florian found his calling as he faced a family crisis, eventually becoming pastor of his own church.
LAST IN THE SERIES -- Genesis Mora, left, is part of a devoted group of teenagers who are crucial to the Ark's survival and growth. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
INTO THE FOLD -- The congregation prayed over Rosaira Sanchez at the Ark of Salvation in Harlem. She came to the church after Pastor Danilo Florian held a service in her apartment in the Bronx. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)(pg. 31)
A SPIRITUAL HOME -- The Pentecostal Church Ark of Salvation for the New Millennium, at 1463 Amsterdam Avenue, near 133rd Street in Harlem. The congregation, which has about 60 members from all over Upper Manhattan and the Bronx, moved into the storefront four years ago after the pastor seized an unusual opportunity: a police raid that had shut down a drug den there.
STRIKING A CHORD -- Ramona Campana, above, was attracted to the unity and passion she saw in a Pentecostal group at a relative's wake in 1993. A Roman Catholic, she converted soon after, and joined Ark of Salvation years later. At left, congregants from other churches joined in a service, and at far left, Pastor Florian stood before the congregation as a visiting pastor took to the pulpit. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)(pgs. 32, 33)Chart/Map: ''An Explosion of Faith''A century after its birth in Kansas, Pentecostalism is the world's fastest-growing branch of Christianity, with roughly 400 million adherents. Some say Pentecostals are the second-largest group after Roman Catholics, who number more than one billion. But comparisons are difficult because the faith is not monolithic. While some Pentecostals belong to large, established denominations like the Church of God in Christ, about 80 percent are in newer, independent congregations that may not even call themselves Pentecostal.Pentecostals and similar Christian groupsEVANGELICALSProtestants who believe that the Bible is literally true, that salvation requires a ''born again'' conversion, and that one must share that faith with others. Some belong to established groups like Methodist and Baptist churches.PENTECOSTALSEvangelicals whose faith centers on an emotional, even ecstatic belief: that the Holy Spirit can bless the faithful with gifts like speaking in tongues or the power to heal. All Pentecostals share an electric style of worship.CHARISMATICSRoman Catholics, Episcopalians and other mainline Christians who adopt elements of Pentecostal practice, like speaking in tongues or worshiping exuberantly. Some experts group them with Pentecostals as ''renewalists.''2005 BREAKDOWN BY CONTINENTGraph tracks Pentecostals worldwide since 1970:North America: 59 millionLatin America: 110 millionAsia: 139 millionAfrica: 72 millionOceania: 2.1 millionEurope: 14 millionPentecostals in New York CityThe number of Pentecostals in the city has increased 45 percent since 1995, according to surveys of the churches. Nearly half of them are foreign-born.Graph tracks total members and churches In New York City (projected) from 1995-2007.2007 projections:CHURCHES - 4,070TOTAL MEMBERS -- 863,600WHO THEY AREForeign-born: 46% (Does not include those born in Puerto Rico)U.S.-born: 54%Black: 35%Hispanic: 29%White: 24%Asian: 12%Map of the United States highlighting Pentecostals as a percentage of each state's population. (Average is 8%)Data not available for Alaska and Hawaii(Sources by Todd Johnson, Center for the Study of Global Christianity, Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary
John Green, The Pew Forum on Religion and Public LIfe
 Tony Carnes, International Research Institute on Values Changes)(pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (94%); RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MILLENNIUM (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); EVICTION (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%) Pentecostal Churches; Hispanic-Americans; Surveys and Series; Pentecostal Churches

ORGANIZATION: Ark of Salvation for the New Millennium (NYC Church)

PERSON: David Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



298 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Now, Big-Name Retail Chains Will Take the Other Boroughs, Too

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
They have saturated much of Manhattan so completely that their ubiquity has become fodder for jokes on television. Now chain stores are rapidly spreading into parts of New York City that had long been left to local merchants.
 The stretch of Broadway in Astoria, Queens, where Mike Belvedere opened his second Cold Stone Creamery ice cream franchise is a prime example. Amid a jumble of Greek bakeries, halal butcher shops and Indian doctors' offices, national retailers and big banks are moving in and remaking the streetscape in Manhattan's image.
 At a glance, the junction of Broadway and Steinway Street could be mistaken for any intersection in Midtown. There are bank branches -- Commerce, Chase and Bank of America -- on three of the corners, and the fourth is home to a Rite Aid drugstore. Nearby are stores usually found in suburban shopping malls. A few blocks from where Mr. Belvedere is selling waffle cones for as much as $5 each are a Children's Place clothing store, a Bath & Body Works and a Victoria's Secret lingerie shop.
 ''The area's flourishing, and it's continuing to change,'' said Mr. Belvedere, who added that friends had said that not being of Greek descent would be a handicap in a section of the city that historically has been a Greek enclave. 
 But Mr. Belvedere said that he had encountered no resistance since he leased the space for his shop about 18 months ago. Rather, he said, he detected among the young professionals who have flocked to the area a hunger for more brand-name merchants.
 The rapid gentrification of certain neighborhoods outside Manhattan has accelerated the spread of the chain stores and renewed fears that the pockets of flavor that define the city will dry up, said Jeanne Giordano, an urban planner who oversaw redevelopment of the commercial space in Grand Central Terminal. ''The tipping point is that it's happening beyond the obvious places,'' Ms. Giordano said. ''The boroughs are all going down like bowling pins.'' 
 Some New Yorkers are worried, she said, that ''it's getting boring around here.''
 There are now 220 Duane Reade stores in the city, and 205 Starbucks cafes, and there will soon be 217 Rite Aid stores if a proposed merger with Eckerd Pharmacy goes through. 
 In San Francisco, such trends drove the passage in November of a proposition to require review by a planning commission of any proposal to open a new chain store outlet or restaurant within city limits. But in New York neighborhoods like Astoria and the area around the Metrotech center in Brooklyn, sentiments among shoppers and business leaders are different. 
 Those areas are on the opposite end of the commercial growth curve from Manhattan, said Robin Abrams, chairwoman of the retail committee of the Real Estate Board of New York. 
 They are being discovered by national retailers that previously had balked at paying urban rents that are generally higher than in suburban shopping malls, she said.
 ''As most of the nationals have saturated Manhattan or been priced out of Manhattan, they fully understand that they can do business in the boroughs,'' said Ms. Abrams, who is an executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation. ''You see more and more tenants looking at these areas.''
 Chains that sell clothing at relatively low prices, like Children's Place and Payless Shoe Source, led an invasion that others are now following, Ms. Abrams said. Children's Place, which has 31 stores in New York City, plans to add six this year, all of them outside of Manhattan, according to a spokeswoman. Payless has more than 60 stores in Brooklyn and Queens; Limited Brands has five Victoria's Secrets, six Bath & Body Works and four Express clothing stores in Brooklyn and Queens. 
 The chain proliferation and the sameness they have brought to so many blocks has become a pet peeve for many New Yorkers, and the butt of jokes for others. On a recent episode of the NBC comedy ''30 Rock,'' a character sent to pick up a prescription was stymied by the presence of ''Rite Drugs'' outlets on all four corners of an intersection.
 To some members of the Municipal Art Society of New York, the advance of the chain stores is no laughing matter. The society, whose stated mission is to make the city more livable, said that it was monitoring what Vanessa Gruen, its director of special projects, calls ''chain store creep'' and looking for ways to protect local merchants.
 Ms. Gruen said the effort was spurred by fears that the proposed Atlantic Yards project would bring more ''huge chain stores'' to Brooklyn and that independent merchants would not be able to afford to stay in the area. Their potential disappearance is a threat to the unique character of the city's neighborhoods, Ms. Gruen said.
 Ms. Giordano, who moderated a panel discussion on the topic for the art society last fall, said there was ''a lot of buzz about this, and it's not just sort of idle chatter.'' Even so, there's no push yet for the sort of broad policy change that was contemplated in the mid-1980s.
 Back then, Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed a commission to study the pros and cons of commercial rent control as a response to fears that chain stores and the high rents they were willing to pay would drive laundries and shoe-repair shops out of business. 
 The commission surveyed residents of several neighborhoods and found that consumer satisfaction was highest where rents were rising the fastest and lowest where commercial rents were most stable, said Alan A. Altshuler, dean of the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University, who led the commission.
 ''One of the reasons that people were happier where rents were rising most rapidly was that these shops were not going out of business; they were moving,'' he recalled. ''Shops that didn't have high revenues were finding ways to survive.''
 Mr. Altshuler said he had heard little talk lately of restricting the proliferation of chain outlets, except against very large stores like Wal-Mart. Those companies have met resistance in many communities that feared one giant big-box store might wipe out several specialty stores. Other than those battles, he said, ''Clearly the passion to restrict these things is much less intense.''
 San Francisco may be the only big city in the United States where an antichain sentiment burns strong, urban planners said. Last fall, the ballot proposition to require planning review of proposed chain stores or restaurant outlets received about 60 percent of the votes, said Gerardo Sandoval, the city supervisor who sponsored the proposition.
 ''Our position is: 'We're San Francisco; you can do what you want in other cities, but here we are going to protect local neighborhood character,' '' Mr. Sandoval said.
 The restrictions on chains, known as ''formula retail'' in San Francisco, apply to everything from Starbucks to individual outlets of Hawaiian barbecue restaurants, said Lawrence B. Badiner, assistant director of that city's planning commission.
 Mr. Badiner said that a few proposed Starbucks cafes had been rejected by the commission. ''The predominant view in most parts of the city is, 'We've got enough; if we want to go to Starbucks we know where to find one,' '' he said. 
 That sentiment may exist in some affluent areas of New York, but many other areas are still eagerly awaiting the arrival of their first chain stores, said Ms. Giordano, who has advised some of the city's business improvement districts on development plans. These community planners ''would consider it a success if some of these stores would come there,'' she said.
 In part, that is because landlords see established retailers as less risky than independent merchants and start-ups, and in part because successful chain stores usually attract shoppers and more chain stores. Local officials in other parts of Queens see ''that stretch of Steinway Street in Astoria'' as a model of what they would like, Ms. Giordano said.
 ''I would say a good healthy street is a combination of both,'' she said. ''If it's just the chains, then it's boring. But certain chains have good basics. And it's always nice to have the small, unique shops. The question is how long that mix holds until it goes and trips over to the other side.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Victoria's Secret store on Steinway Street is one of many name-brand stores on a strip in Astoria, and one of the lingerie chain's five stores in Brooklyn and Queens. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)
(Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
(Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''A 'Mall' On Steinway''A block in Astoria, Queens, that has become dense with national chain stores is an example of how companies are expanding into markets outside Manhattan.Map of Astoria, Queens highlighting businesses along Steinway St. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (96%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (86%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); ICE CREAM (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); MEAT STORES (73%); TRENDS (71%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); SUBURBS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (56%) Retail Stores and Trade; Relocation of Business; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (55%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Astoria (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



299 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Rebel Chief Sends Fighters to Their Deaths 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BAGRAM, Afghanistan, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
An Afghan insurgent leader operating from Pakistan sent about 200 ill-equipped fighters, some wearing plastic bags on their feet, into Afghanistan, where most were killed in a major battle this week, an American general said Saturday. 
 The general, Maj. Gen. Benjamin Freakley, said the insurgent leader, Jalaluddin Haqqani, recruited and sent unemployed and untrained men to fight in Afghanistan.
United States forces killed about 130 fighters moving in two groups in Paktika Province in the east late Wednesday and early Thursday, in one of the largest winter battles in Afghanistan since the fall of the Taliban in 2001.
 General Freakley said the fighters ''were from Jalaluddin Haqqani and we believe, though we don't know exactly where, that Jalaluddin Haqqani is operating from inside Pakistan and sending men to fight in Afghanistan.''
 Western and Afghan officials accuse Pakistan of not doing enough to stop Taliban fighters using Pakistani soil as a training ground from crossing the border into Afghanistan. Pakistan says it does all it can to stop the fighters.
 No officials in Pakistan could be reached immediately for comment.
 General Freakley said one of the enemies in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area is unemployment.
 ''It is clear to me that some of these men were just either collected in a poor part of a village or perhaps from a madrasa or perhaps from a refugee camp and told to come fight,'' he said. ''The message to the enemies of Afghanistan and the enemies of world peace would be that you can come at us with two people, 20 people, 200 people, 2,000 people, you'll be defeated and your young men will needlessly be killed.''
 General Freakley said it was likely the insurgent fighters meant to attack a new military outpost near the village of Marghah that has affected insurgent infiltration routes.
 In southern Afghanistan, meanwhile, NATO troops fought insurgents on Saturday in a battle that left one Western soldier dead. 
 Taliban militants stepped up attacks last year, and insurgent-related violence killed about 4,000 people in the bloodiest year since the American-led coalition ousted the Taliban in late 2001.


GRAPHIC: Map of Afghanistan highlighting Paktika Province: United States forces killed about 130 fighters in Paktika Province.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); REFUGEES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%); POLITICS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Politics and Government ; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

PERSON: Jalaluddin Haqqani

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



300 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: New High in '06 On Borrowing For Pet Projects

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
For months, the state capital has been consumed by talk of state and federal investigations into the legislative pet projects known as member items.
 But it turns out that those items, which cost about $200 million a year, are just the tip of the iceberg.
In 2006, an election year, Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature committed to borrowing $1.9 billion for an array of initiatives similar to member items, only costing nearly 10 times as much. Many of those grants went to politically connected companies and nonprofit organizations in lawmakers' districts.
 The little-noticed practice of using borrowed money to pay for what critics consider pork barrel projects began in the late 1990s, when the Legislature authorized debt to finance improvements to the Buffalo Bills' football stadium, a move that was denounced by the state comptroller, H. Carl McCall, in part because it did not involve voter approval. 
 But the practice reached its apex last year, as Mr. Pataki was leaving office. The projects approved in the last nine months of 2006 exceeded the total amount of borrowed money disbursed over the previous eight years. According to a report published last year by a nonprofit group, the Center for Government Research, the previous borrowing totaled $1.7 billion. 
 Even before last year, New York had one of the highest levels of per capita debt in the nation. Budget watchdog groups assert that the recent borrowing for capital initiatives will sharply increase the state's debt burden, projected to cost $7 billion annually by 2010. Some people also say it raises new questions about Mr. Pataki's fiscal stewardship of the state. 
 The full details of the 2006 election-year borrowing spree became available only after Gov. Eliot Spitzer took office this month, because the Pataki administration had prevented the Empire State Development Corporation, the quasi-public authority that handles much of the state's borrowing, from releasing a master list of its projects. 
 These projects differ from other types of state economic development aid because they are financed at the request of individual legislators or the governor, forgoing more rigorous and competitive application processes by state agencies.
 Like member items, these capital projects are, for the most part, not listed in the state budget and therefore are generally not subject to legislative debate or public scrutiny. And as with member items, legislative leaders allocate the borrowed funds based on the seniority, loyalty or political vulnerability of a lawmaker. 
 But unlike member items, which are paid for out of the annual budget, the capital projects are financed with borrowed money that is repaid over many years. 
 The borrowed money went to all manner of projects, including construction costs, equipment purchasing and occasionally operating expenses. 
 A $2,521.83 grant was used to repave streets in Plattsburgh, for instance, and $50,000 went to build a new driveway for a Long Island church. Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, was co-sponsor of a $650 million grant to lure an Advanced Micro Devices semiconductor plant to his district. Another Republican, Senator William J. Larkin Jr., directed $75,000 toward the purchase of new lights at a Little League field in his Hudson Valley district. 
 Assembly Democrats used much of their money to offset education cuts or assist colleges, including by borrowing $26 million to help the State University of New York buy a supercomputer. 
 Over the last decade, lawmakers have used the money to finance a number of failed economic development projects, including a now-defunct high-speed ferry between Rochester and Canada that cost the state millions of dollars. 
 Among the projects on his voluminous list, Mr. Pataki directed $12.6 million to the small city of Peekskill -- where he was once mayor -- to fix bathrooms at a local arts center and to renovate a historic theater and a train station. He sent an additional $7.3 million to build new wings at Hudson Valley Hospital, where he had an emergency appendectomy last year.
 Assistants to Mr. Pataki and Senate Republicans said the borrowing was used mostly for economic development projects that brought jobs to the state, and they asserted that there was adequate oversight. 
 ''Whether it's the A.M.D. fab in Malta, the Adirondack Museum in Tupper Lake or Cornell's nanofabrication initiative in Ithaca, making smart capital investments in New York's economic, intellectual and transportation infrastructure is essential to transforming New York's economy,'' said David Catalfamo, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.
 ''Governor Pataki believes these investments are especially crucial to upstate communities as we continue to transition from a traditional industry-based economy to an economy based in knowledge and innovation,'' Mr. Catalfamo said.
 Governor Spitzer has said he will end the practice of borrowing for pet projects, a move legislative leaders say they support. Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo has said he will investigate whether such projects fulfill a legitimate public purpose and has vowed to recover funds that he determines were misspent. 
 Mr. Spitzer and his staff also say they will take their first major borrowing proposal, a stem cell research fund, to the voters. 
 Doing so would ''allow the public to make a choice as to whether this is a long-term investment worth making,'' said Paul Francis, Mr. Spitzer's budget director.
 Mr. Francis also said that the governor would send a signal in his first budget address in the coming weeks ''that we're going to have a much more analytical process that evaluates the cost and benefits based on objective criteria.''
 Budget experts on both sides of the political aisle criticized borrowing for pet projects. 
 ''It's one of the worst examples of a very flawed and very poor fiscal practice that we're going to pay for in the long run,'' Mr. McCall, a Democrat, said. 
 Edmund J. McMahon, executive director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an affiliate of the Manhattan Institute, a nonprofit conservative policy group, said last year was ''the triple witching hour of pork.''
 ''They've been building up towards this; every pot of money they have surges in an election year and especially with a change in power,'' he said.
 Like many other conservatives who once supported Mr. Pataki, Mr. McMahon found fault with his fiscal policies. 
 ''It was something that he enabled and enthusiastically participated in,'' he said, adding, ''I'm sure they'll say the Legislature made them do it. Baloney!'' 
 Untangling these projects is difficult. The Legislature and Mr. Pataki have created almost a dozen pots of borrowed money to finance their initiatives. And most of the projects are never delineated in the budget; the grant to A.M.D. for a manufacturing plant near Albany was one of the exceptions. 
 The money is allocated to two major authorities with politically appointed boards. The governor and the Republican-controlled Senate typically have channeled projects through the Empire State Development Corporation, while the Democratic-controlled Assembly has financed its projects out of the Dormitory Authority. 
 Many of the private companies that have received aid had political connections to lawmakers or the governor. 
 More than $200,000, for instance, was directed last year to the New York, Susquehanna and Western Rail Corporation. (The rail line has received millions more in similar state aid over the years.) The railroad is headed by a prominent donor to Mr. Pataki and other Republicans, Walter Rich, who is being investigated by the state Lobbying Commission over his fund-raising activities.
 The commission recently rejected an attempt by the company to be co-hosts to scores of legislators and their spouses on a private rail trip from Saratoga Springs, N.Y., to Canada.
 ''Rehabilitating rail tracks in the Adirondacks will help draw visitors and boost economic opportunities throughout the region,'' Mr. Pataki said in one of his last public statements, which announced millions of dollars of new grants to Mr. Rich's company and other rail lines.
 Lawmakers from both parties also directed nearly $1 million to SuperPower Inc. of Schenectady, a maker of superconducting cables. Political action committees connected to SuperPower had contributed to Mr. Pataki, Mr. Spitzer, Mr. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. 
 Mr. Bruno also directed $195,000 to Autotask and another $195,000 to e.nfrastructure (now called nfrastructure), two small companies in his district. Officials with the two technology firms said they had requested aid from Mr. Bruno to help their expanding operations stay in the capital region.
 Federal authorities have been investigating Mr. Bruno's outside consulting business for several months and have issued subpoenas to at least one business that received member item money from him. Executives at Autotask and nfrastructure said they had not received subpoenas in that investigation and had never been clients of Mr. Bruno's consulting firm.
 Dan Moran, vice president of human resources at nfrastructure, said that the application process for the state money was ''extensive,'' adding, ''we had to show every single penny we spent.'' He said that Mr. Bruno's staff played an important role in helping his company win the grant.
 Richard Frederick, the president of Autotask, said he had recently been told his grant was ''on hold,'' though it was approved last month. 
 Jessica Copen, a spokeswoman for the Empire State Development Corporation, said that ''some of these grants require public hearings, so that's why some have been held up, and the new administration just received signature power yesterday, and that means they can actually sign the grant disbursement agreements.'' 
 John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, said that, like Mr. Spitzer, the Senate Republicans supported putting all future spending on initiatives, whether member items or capital projects, in the state budget. 
 But he defended the spending. ''The projects that we fund are principally geared to create jobs and attract business and employers to the state,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a record set in 2006 for the amount of borrowed money the New York Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki committed to pet projects included an erroneous reference from David Catalfamo, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, to a museum that Mr. Catalfamo defended as a worthwhile investment. It is the Natural History Museum of the Adirondacks in Tupper Lake -- not the Adirondack Museum, which is in Blue Mountain Lake.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Borrowed Money''In fiscal year 2006-7, Governor George E. Pataki and the Legislature committed to spending nearly $1.9 billion worth of borrowed money on a wide range of pet projects. Though such spending has tended to spike in election years, last year's outlay exceeded similar spending over the previous eight years.Data are for fiscal years, which end March 31.Graph tracks amount of borrowed money since 1999.2007: $1.88 billion(Sources by Center for Government Research
 Empire State Development Corp. and Dormitory Authority of New York)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ETHICS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) Ethics

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (56%) Empire State Development Corp

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (56%) Danny Hakim; George E Pataki; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



301 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Early Edition

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Tax Deals Lure the Superrich, but Are They Fair?

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
In the dark of winter, the French rock 'n' roll icon Johnny Hallyday has abandoned France to settle in a snow-dusted mountain chalet, joining a scattered flock of superrich tax refugees in serene Switzerland.
 Numbering about 3,700, according to Swiss statistics, these millionaire and billionaire exiles are variously coveted and resented in Switzerland, where local governments are competing in what critics scorn as a fierce race to the bottom to lure wealthy foreigners with individually negotiated tax breaks.
''I'm sick of paying, that's all,'' Mr. Hallyday, 63, said in a rebellious outburst to the celebrity magazine Paris Match, which devoted eight pages to his departure. ''I believe that after all the work I have done over nearly 50 years, my family should be able to live in some serenity. But 70 percent of everything I earn goes to taxes.'' 
 The notion of a French symbol decamping to a newly renovated refuge in the town of Gstaad had an incendiary effect on French politics, prompting President Jacques Chirac to express restrained regrets about the rocker's actions. But Mr. Hallyday's departure also highlighted a simmering debate in Switzerland, where tax deals for wealthy expatriates provoke criticism from political parties on the center-left.
 ''For our party this is a question of justice,'' said Mathias Manz, a senior official of the Swiss Social Democratic Party, which failed to persuade the Swiss Parliament to halt the deal-making in a vote on the issue in 2005. ''We believe that this kind of system is not transparent or fair and that, ultimately, it will undermine the tax morals of other people who aren't getting the benefits.''
 Switzerland's 26 cantons wield enormous power over their own taxation systems, setting their own tax levels with local citizens weighing in at the ballot box. Their autonomy has allowed the flourishing of a discreet, let's-make-a-deal tax system for rich foreigners who, unlike the Swiss themselves, are allowed to negotiate lump-sum tax agreements.
 The immigrants make a one-time payment based on the value of their Swiss homes in exchange for immunity from further taxes. The deal has proved to be an irresistible call to the rich, drawing Ikea's billionaire founder, Ingvar Kamprad, and close behind him in net worth, Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian aluminum and petroleum magnate and collector of jewel-studded Faberge eggs. Mr. Kamprad, an 80-year-old Swede fabled for his frugality and vintage Volvo, lives near Lausanne. 
 But along with corporate titans, Switzerland is also home to an assortment of celebrities, including the German racing champion Michael Schumacher, the cyclist Jan Ullrich, also of Germany, and the pop singers Phil Collins of England and Tina Turner of the United States. 
 It is such a Mecca for French athletes that when Mr. Hallyday started feeling political heat for his departure, the French tennis star Amelie Mauresmo defended Swiss tax migration from her Geneva redoubt in an interview with the Swiss daily newspaper Le Matin: ''To live in Geneva is a lifestyle choice along with financial reasons. Leading a normal existence in Paris is much more complicated.''
 Negotiating the Swiss tax system can also be complicated, but cantons are eager to court the superrich. And so a thriving cottage industry of lawyers and advisers has evolved to shepherd potential new residents by negotiating individual agreements, known as forfaits, with canton authorities. 
 ''We have seen an increase in wealthier people applying for forfaits,'' said Stephanie Jarrett, a tax lawyer with Baker & McKenzie in Geneva. ''It's now allowed everywhere, and in some cantons you can get a better deal than others. The rates are much higher in Geneva than in other cantons where they really need the income, and so they offer much lower rates.''
 Aside from tax advantages, she said, wealthy foreigners are attracted because the nation is considered safe, a particularly appealing factor for Latin Americans yearning to escape kidnapping threats in their own countries.
 On the other hand, some expatriates find it difficult to adapt to an insular and placid culture, and the availability of luxury housing in high-demand areas like Geneva is limited. Le Matin issued a blunt public warning to Mr. Hallyday about the perils of tranquillity, urging him to stay in France unless he was ''mad about skiing, walking and solitude.''
 Cantons are eager to draw wealthy foreigners, who offer a quick way of raising revenues when they are facing reductions in public spending. Local authorities have also been slashing corporate and personal rates for Swiss residents in a race that the association of canton finance chiefs has criticized as excessive.
 Anetta Bundi, a reporter with the German-language Zurich newspaper Tages-Anzeiger who has covered the issue, said the chief argument in favor of tax perks for foreigners is that wealthy residents will help the economy as their riches trickle down to local businesses.
 ''There are a lot of people who think this is not just and should be abolished,'' she said, but the fear is that if such steps were taken they would simply cause the flight of a highly mobile elite to other receptive places like Belgium. 
 Canton authorities are so eager to roll out the welcome mat that it sometimes draws unwelcome attention in a society that prides itself on discretion.
 Last year, the local authorities in the canton of Graubunden announced an investigation of lump-sum tax benefits granted to Flora Bartolini, the mother-in-law of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. The controversy involved the issuance of a Swiss residency permit in 2004 to Ms. Bartolini although she had not lived in the house, an imposing former bank, while it was being renovated.
 Mr. Schumacher's tax deal in Lucerne was thwarted when people discovered that the canton had offered him special rates, exclusive landing rights for his private jet and support for finding an appropriate piece of property. But now he lives near Lake Geneva, a region that has drawn other wealthy racing drivers like Fernando Alonso and Alain Prost. 
 Joseph Zisyadis, a member of the Swiss Parliament and a longtime opponent of the tax deals, calls the system a return to the Middle Ages where ''the richer you are, the less you contribute.''
 ''When Johnny Hallyday comes to Switzerland, he loves the tranquillity and the security,'' Mr. Zisyadis said. ''He loves that the country is clean. All of this costs money. And who pays for this if the rich don't pay for this?''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in some copies on Jan. 14 about wealthy foreigners moving to Switzerland and negotiating tax breaks incorrectly described a formula used for determining a lump sum tax payment. The immigrants negotiate an annual payment based on five times the monthly rental value of their Swiss homes. They do not make a one-time payment based on the value of their Swiss homes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The French rocker Johnny Hallyday, left, moved to this chalet in Gstaad, Switzerland, to avoid paying French taxes. ''I'm sick of paying, that's all,'' he said, a sentiment shared by some 3,700 tax exiles in Switzerland. (Photo by Peter Schneider/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Niviere-Aslan/Sipa, via European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); REFUGEES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); IMMUNITY (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL SCHUMACHER (60%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (99%); FRANCE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



302 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: January 14, 2007

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	14	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	2	2	7	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	3	3	5	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.		 	 	 	4	4	9	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	5		1	SHADOW DANCE, by Julie Garwood. (Ballantine, $25.95.) Jordan Buchanan, a successful businesswoman, encounters danger and romance when she investigates an ancient Scottish feud involving her family.		 	 	 	6	5	4	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''		 	 	 	7	6	5	TREASURE OF KHAN, by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler. (Putnam, $27.95.) In his 19th adventure, Dirk Pitt confronts a murderous Mongolian tycoon who manipulates the oil market and knows the secret of Genghis Khan .		 	 	 	8	7	5	BROTHER ODD, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) With his ability to see the spirits of the dead, Odd Thomas, a character in two previous novels by Koontz, heads off a catastrophe at a monastery .		 	 	 	9		1	STALEMATE, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $26.) The forensic sculptor Eve Duncan travels to Colombia to identify a skull for a shady arms dealer who promises to help her discover who abducted her daughter.		 	 	 	10	10	4	THE BOLEYN INHERITANCE, by Philippa Gregory. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) Politics and treachery in the court of Henry VIII, narrated by three women, two of them his sometime wives.		 	 	 	11	9	8	WILD FIRE, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.99.) Detective John Corey and his wife, an F.B.I. agent, help to foil a nuclear plot against the United States.		 	 	 	12	15	3	MISTRAL'S KISS, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Ballantine, $23.95.) After Meredith Gentry gives up her job as a p.i. to assume her duties as a faerie princess, she must prove her fertility through sex with her bodyguards. 		 	 	 	13		2	TRUE EVIL, by Greg Iles. (Scribner, $25.95.) A divorce attorney may be murdering his client's spouses.		 	 	 	14	8	10	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	15	11	7	NATURE GIRL, by Carl Hiaasen. (Knopf, $25.95.) A single mother takes revenge on her lecherous ex-boss and an annoying telemarketer in the Florida Everglades.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	11	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	2	12	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	3	3	63	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	4	4	14	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	5	5	6	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	6	9	15	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.		 	 	 	7	6	22	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	8	8	86	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	 	9	7	11	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) A wacky approach to entertaining from the actress and playwright.		 	 	 	10	10	91	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	11	11	11	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	12		7	THUNDERSTRUCK, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $25.95.) Intertwined stories of early-20th-century murder and scientific intrigue; from the author of ''The Devil in the White City.''		 	 	 	13	15	14	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes a dysfunctional administration's inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	14		2	MY SECRET, compiled by Frank Warren. (Regan/HarperCollins, $19.95.) Warren invited people to mail him their secrets on decorated postcards for a Web site called the PostSecret Project; this book compiles cards from teenagers and college students.		 	 	 	15		4	THE BLIND SIDE, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) The evolving business of football, viewed through the rise of the left tackle Michael Oher.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Dec. 30, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestEVERYBODY LOVES SOMEBODY, by Joanna Scott. (Back Bay/Little, Brown; paper, $13.99.) Raw tales that sacrifice prettiness for accuracy.
 AMERICAN SPEECHES: Political Oratory From the Revolution to the Civil War, edited by Ted Widmer. (Library of America, $35.) 
 AMERICAN SPEECHES: Political Oratory From Abraham Lincoln to Bill Clinton, edited by Ted Widmer. (Library of America, $35.) Taken together, a kind of museum of oratorical masterpieces (and some also-rans) in book form, with interjections from listeners.
 PRIME GREEN: Remembering the Sixties, by Robert Stone.(Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) Stone describes his trek through that notorious decade, from underdog to prize-winning novelist. 
 THE SCIENTIST AS REBEL, by Freeman Dyson. (New York Review, $27.95.) Essays from the iconoclastic physicist who has become one of science's most eloquent interpreters.
 ON 'THE WEALTH OF NATIONS,' by P. J. O'Rourke. (Atlantic Monthly, $21.95.) A digestible rundown, with riffs, of Adam Smith's 1776 treatise.
 ALTERNADAD, by Neal Pollack. (Pantheon, $23.95.) The writer (''Never Mind the Pollacks'') and first-time dad details his rock 'n' roll parenting style -- what works and what doesn't quite.
 THE INITIALS OF THE EARTH, by Jesus Diaz. Translated by Kathleen Ross. (Duke University, $24.95.) An ambitious novel about a Cuban trying to live up to the ideals of a still young revolution.
 WRESTLING WITH GRAVY: A Life, With Food, by Jonathan Reynolds. (Random House, $25.95.) This memoir-cum-cookbook revolves around recollections of meals prepared and eaten.
 SEA OF THUNDER: Four Commanders and the Last Great Naval Campaign, 1941-1945, by Evan Thomas. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) An engaging account of the war in the Pacific and those who fought it, ending with the Battle of Leyte Gulf.
 SACRED GAMES, by Vikram Chandra. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) A Sikh police inspector in Mumbai tracks down a crime kingpin in this vast novel by the author of ''Love and Longing in Bombay.''
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); WOMEN (77%); FORENSICS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



303 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 3; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: When Dream Cars Are Powered by Pipe Dreams 

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
THE front-page headline of The Detroit News last Monday blared ''GM Powers Up'' in letters of a size usually reserved for bulletins like ''WAR ENDS.'' For a day at least, General Motors owned industry bragging rights with its introduction of the Chevrolet Volt electric car at the North American International Auto Show. Investors were happy; G.M.'s stock price rose a bit. 
 There was, however, one problem: The Volt does not run. The batteries it requires to deliver the driving range and economy G.M. promised have not been developed. Granted, G.M. was candid about this shortcoming, and the Volt is at least as close to reality as many of the so-called concept cars that appeared at the show in the past.
So why do carmakers push ideas that don't quite work, or innovations that aren't quite finished, into the bright global spotlight of the annual auto show here? 
 Fact is, for decades automakers have used exhibitions like this to showcase dream cars with dreamed-up powertrains wholly incapable of their advertised feats. Putting wings on the fenders may not make a flying car, but it may be enough to get some publicity for your company. Journalists on the auto beat quickly learn to take the more outlandish claims -- cars with soybean-based bodies, or those said to have lightning-quick acceleration while achieving 100 miles a gallon -- with several grains of salt.
 The people who create such dream machines say they are just continuing a long tradition of using auto shows as idea factories. With their concept cars they are testing the waters, thinking out loud, exploring the outer edges of what might be possible -- or playing a game of liar's poker, trying to psych out the competition.
 Bill Visnic, an engine expert and former technical editor of Ward's Automotive Reports, said he thought that fewer automakers were engaging in this ethically questionable practice.
 ''Just as with the concept cars themselves, the days of goofy, totally far-out engines with no relationship to reality are waning,'' Mr. Visnic said.
 These days most automakers just don't have the money to put into developing dead-end ideas. ''Most every power plant you see these days in concept vehicles is an engine already in production, is near production, or essentially is production-feasible,'' Mr. Visnic said.
 This has not always been the case, Mr. Visnic said, citing egregious examples of bogus power sources from the industry's past. Perhaps the most outlandish was the Ford Nucleon of 1958. Best described as a cross between a Ranchero pickup and the Enterprise from ''Star Trek,'' Ford said the car would be powered by an onboard nuclear reactor. Fortunately, no working version, just a scale model, was ever produced.
 One of the more interesting concepts in the post-World War II era was the 1963 Chrysler Turbine Car. It was a far-fetched idea -- a basic form of a jet engine adapted for cars -- that very nearly proved viable. (Dozens of the Turbines were actually built and driven by private citizens.) Turbines that could operate on a wide variety of fuels might have changed the geopolitical balance of power in the 21st century.
 A notable misfire was the Chrysler Patriot, a concept racecar from 1995, supposedly destined for the 24 Hours of Le Mans, that was said to be powered by a revolutionary system that included a huge flywheel. When Chrysler unveiled the Patriot at the Detroit show, the company showed footage of the car speeding around a racetrack. Later, it was revealed that the Patriot engine had never run successfully. The racetrack video had been staged, with the Patriot hauled up to speed by a tow truck. 
 ''Patriot is definitely a standout,'' Mr. Visnic said. ''Not just for the hidden tow truck, it also breathlessly promoted the technology du jour: flywheel energy storage. Man, for a brief period, there was a lot of hype about flywheels.'' 
 The stillborn flywheel technology was supposed to store energy like a friction toy being wound up. But when a prototype of the huge flywheel was installed in the Patriot's chassis and the motor activated, it carried a lethal wallop. Evan Boberg, the author of a book on concept cars, ''Common Sense Not Required,'' said the flywheel broke away and tore through the chassis. 
 In the book, ''Modern Chrysler Concept Cars,'' the author Matt DeLorenzo noted that from 1987 to 1999, Chrysler produced nearly 50 concept cars. Of those, more than half were powered by pie-in-the-sky engines that Chrysler lacked the means, intent or technical know-how to produce, including those propelled by hybrid electrics, fuel cells and propane. A breakthrough promised by the 1992 Cirrus -- a supercharged two stroke V-6 Fury engine -- was said to produce 400 horsepower. The engine later proved to be mockup made of wood.
 As word leaked out that these and other concept car engines were less than sincere efforts by manufacturers perhaps more interested in headlines than making real products, reporters began to ask tougher questions about powertrain feasibility.
 In 2000, in response to skeptics who wondered whether the current crop of concept cars would really run, G.M. invited the press, including me, to drive the cars at its Michigan proving ground. The test was tightly regulated: a G.M. employee was to accompany the driver and the cars could not be driven above 25 m.p.h. 
 The results were not persuasive; the Buick LaCrosse, a retro-themed concept bristling with electronic controls, trapped its occupants inside because an electrical failure prevented the experimental Quiet Servant voice-command system from obeying a crucial spoken command, ''Open doors.'' 
 The engine froze up on another concept car, the Cadillac Imaj. When I asked the engineer assigned to the GMC Terradyne pickup to accompany me on a drive, he muttered something like, ''I told them this wasn't a good idea.'' After about 100 feet of slow-speed chugging, the Terradyne's engine (said to be a 6.6-liter turbodiesel V-8) seized up and the pickup was towed away.
 And while G.M. was forthright this year that its Volt wasn't yet a running vehicle, not all manufacturers seemed inclined to full disclosure. Many of today's concepts, unveiled amid great fanfare, still don't have roadworthy engines. Some have no engine at all.
 For example, Nissan is showing off its engineless (and hoodless) Bevel concept car at this year's Detroit show. Nissan says the Bevel's power would come from a hybrid electric version of a ''small, efficient V-6,'' although Nissan has not made that powertrain. Obviously, the Bevel isn't going anywhere -- literally or figuratively. 
 A company spokesman, Tim Gallagher, said that the Bevel was a design study, so its power source was beside the point. Hoods need not necessarily be opened at auto shows; in fact, fire codes often require that the power plants of show models be disabled. Omitting the engine is merely a sensible way to keep down the cost of a concept car, Mr. Gallagher said.
 The engine almost seems irrelevant with two of Mazda's 2007 design studies, the Nagare and Ryuga, which appear to have been styled without considering where the mechanical bits might be installed. 
 Ford's Airstream concept, in theory at least, would be a plug-in electric-hydrogen hybrid car using a system that remains unperfected even after years of technical exploration.


GRAPHIC: Photos: GROUNDED -- Above, Chrysler Turbine
left, GMC Terradyne. (pg. 4)
 IF ONLY -- The Nissan Bevel, left, just introduced and the Chrysler Patriot shown 1995. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); ETHICS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (71%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); WRITERS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (56%) Automobiles; Trade Shows and Fairs; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; North American International Auto Show; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



304 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2089 words

HEADLINE: In Control on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONLY a few weeks ago, Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro of Connecticut and Nita M. Lowey of Westchester were in the legislative equivalent of dead-end jobs: Democrats in a chamber tightly controlled by Republicans.
 But with Democrats now in power under the newly formed 110th Congress, the two lawmakers are back as ''cardinals,'' in coveted top-tier positions on the House Appropriations Committee that give them a significant say over how billions of dollars in federal aid are spent.
The experience of these two congresswomen underscores how the November elections have boosted the fortunes of the heavily Democratic Congressional delegations from the New York metropolitan region -- a group made up of everything from urban liberals and suburban moderates to policy geeks and smooth political operators.
 After having spent more than a decade in the political wilderness, with Congress in the hands of conservative Republicans mostly from other regions of the country, Democrats from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are eager to take control. 
 In large part, they will concentrate on shaping the national agenda on issues like health care, education, terrorism and the war in Iraq. But members of the tristate delegation say that they will also be focused on parochial matters, most notably getting federal money for homeland security initiatives as well as for the region's aging highway and mass transportation systems.
 In interviews, local, state and federal officials from the region provided a laundry list of need that is daunting by any standard, including:
 As much as $7 billion to connect New York City and Long Island to the national rail freight system with the construction of a cross-harbor tunnel intended to reduce truck congestion on highways and roads.
 $2 billion for a rail link connecting the World Trade Center site to the Long Island Rail Road and Kennedy International Airport; $500 million for a Metro-North railroad link across the Hudson River to connect Stewart International Airport in Newburgh with the New York City area.
 $6 billion for a New Jersey Transit train tunnel under the Hudson River, which would include a loop south of Secaucus Junction and give riders on the Bergen, Main and Pascack Valley Lines a direct ride into Pennsylvania Station without having to switch trains in Secaucus or Hoboken.
 $700 million on top of billions of dollars already set aside for a project to link the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal via a tunnel along 63rd Street in Manhattan.
 Jeremy Soffin of the Regional Plan Association, however, sought to lower expectations. While area lawmakers are clearly well positioned to secure individual projects for their districts and states, he said, the test for them will be whether they can prod Congress into making fundamental changes to federal policies in several areas that have often neglected the needs of older metropolitan regions like New York City.
 ''We have to have realistic expectations about what a new Congress will mean for our region,'' he said. ''We would expect more money coming our way in the form of pork in the short term. But there won't be a lasting impact unless there is a shift to prioritize federal investment in metropolitan regions.''
 Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, did not disagree with that contention and noted that the thin majorities the Democrats possess, particularly in the Senate, add to the challenge. But he said that the regional delegation could make progress through alliances with lawmakers from metropolitan regions from other parts of the country.
 ''It will be more difficult but still possible,'' he said in a recent interview, referring to overall changes in federal policy. ''We now have people in positions to work with us and make it better. We won't get everything we want, but we can try to make it better.''
 The jockeying for federal aid has already begun.
 In December, for example, New York's newly elected governor, Eliot Spitzer, met with the state's Congressional delegation. Their discussion focused, in part, on increasing the federal government's contribution to the state's vast Medicaid program, whose costs have helped contribute to soaring property taxes in counties around the state, particularly in the New York City suburbs.
 Then earlier this month, just after Democrats officially took control of both chambers in Congress, members of the delegation protested a plan by the Department of Homeland Security to require New York City to share federal terror grants with northern New Jersey. The department decided to treat New York City and northern New Jersey -- including Jersey City and Newark -- as one region instead of treating them separately. But leading delegation members warned that they would move to block the plan if it turned out to be nothing more than a pretext to cut the region's security money.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said that if the agency ''gives out money based on a combined New York and New Jersey area, it better be two full loaves, not half for each.''
 With the 110th Congress now in session, lawmakers from the region hold several important positions in both chambers, enhancing their ability to influence the flow of legislation on issues that affect all three states.
 In the Senate, for example, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who formally announced last week that he is seeking the Democratic nomination for president, is taking over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee. The panel has jurisdiction over billions of dollars in federal mass transit aid, and over laws that affect the scores of financial institutions that make up the region's economic backbone.
 Joseph I. Lieberman, the other senator from Connecticut, will be the only other senator from the region to hold a full-committee chairmanship -- on the Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committee.
 Frank R. Lautenberg, the senior senator from New Jersey, holds positions on two committees that have significant say over the fate of local projects, the Environment and Public Works Committee and the Appropriations Committee.
 Politically, the tristate region has another powerful advantage in that chamber. All the senators from the region are part of the new Democratic majority in the Senate. (Mr. Lieberman ran as an Independent, but is caucusing with the Democrats and describes himself as an Independent Democrat.) 
 In Mr. Schumer's case, he has a direct line to the new majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, as one of Mr. Reid's top political lieutenants in that chamber. (Mr. Reid recently appointed Mr. Schumer vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the No. 3 leadership position in the Senate, as a reward for the election victories Mr. Schumer helped orchestrate as chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee last fall.)
 As for the junior senator from New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, a leading contender for her party's presidential nomination, she is in position to collect favors after having spent much of her time in the last election campaigning and raising money on behalf of her Democratic colleagues in both chambers.
 The region also has several powerful players in the House. The job of vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the fifth-most powerful position in that chamber, will go to John B. Larson of East Hartford, Conn.
 BEYOND that, several lawmakers from the region's House delegation will be leading crucially important panels. These lawmakers include Louise M. Slaughter, from western New York, who will be chairwoman of the Rules Committee, the panel that Republican leaders employed to limit any floor debate and amendments affecting bills they favored; and Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, who as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee will shape tax policy and oversee some of the federal government's largest entitlement programs.
 Besides Mrs. Lowey and Mrs. DeLauro, the region will have several other Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, including Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx, who will also hold the rank of ''cardinal,'' as the heads of appropriations subcommittees are known on Capitol Hill. The other Democrats on the Appropriations Committee are Representatives Maurice D. Hinchey of the New York's Hudson Valley, Steven R. Rothman of Hackensack, N.J., and Steve Israel of Long Island. The Appropriations Committee, among other things, receives thousands of individual spending requests annually from lawmakers seeking money for pet projects back home. 
 ''We have a great team in place on influential committees,'' Mrs. Lowey said, referring to the region's House delegation. ''We are in a position to deliver.''
 Even some of the regional delegation's newcomers are moving quickly to establish themselves as go-to guys and gals.
 Joseph Courtney, who defeated a Republican incumbent, Rob Simmons, in the Second District in eastern Connecticut, was recently given a seat on the Armed Services Committee after lobbying hard for it. Mr. Courtney and his aides say that the seat will position him to steer military money and projects into the district, where the Navy has a submarine base in Groton and where the Electric Boat Corporation, a Navy contractor, builds submarines. 
 ''I'm ready to go to work,'' Mr. Courtney said last week, less than an hour after being sworn into office.
 It is easy to see why New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have been routinely overlooked in the national political calculus. All three states have consistently (and solidly) voted Democratic in the last four presidential elections, meaning Republican leaders in Washington have generally had little compelling political interest in catering to the region's needs.
 Beyond that, 29 of the region's 47 House members, or 62 percent, were Democrats going into the midterm elections last year. And Republicans from the region tend to be moderates whose positions on social issues like abortion rights and gun control put them at odds with conservative leaders of the national party.
 (As it turns out, the midterm elections further solidified the region's standing as a Democratic stronghold, with Democrats defeating two Republican incumbents in Connecticut and two in New York. Democrats also picked up one Republican-held seat that became open in New York.)
 While political analysts in both parties agree that the Democratic ascendancy gives the region a stronger voice on the Hill, the recent elections brought mixed news. For example, Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island, is losing the chairmanship of the Committee on Homeland Security, a position that he used to steer more money to New York City and other area localities considered at high risk of terrorist attack. The position will go to a Democrat, Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi.
 In an interview, Mr. King said that he expected to work well with Mr. Thompson, though he noted that he believed he would do ''a better job'' for the New York region than his Mississippi colleague.
 ''I have to play the cards I've been dealt,'' he said. ''We're still in a pretty good spot because I am the top Republican on the committee. Which means that if Democrats want to get anything done, they have to work with the administration. Which means that Democrats will have to work with me because I will be the administration's man on the committee. And if the administration wants to get anything done, it has to work with the Democrats on the committee. And it will have to work through me to work with the Democrats.
 ''Ultimately,'' he continued, ''I see myself as New York's man on the committee.''
 Politicians and other officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut agreed that a top priority of theirs was securing federal dollars for the reconstruction and maintenance of the region's network of highways, bridges and tunnels, and its subways and commuter railroads.
 Mr. Schumer argues that the region's transportation system is nearing capacity during peak hours of travel and must be expanded to absorb the region's rapid growth over the last few decades. He suggested that the challenge for tristate lawmakers would be to work across traditional governmental boundaries, with an eye toward building a coherent system that ties the entire region together.
 ''We are the largest metropolitan region in the country, and we are bedeviled by the fact that we have numerous jurisdictions -- state, county and town,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We need to connect the region.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THEIR HANDS -- Top, Senator Robert Menendez with Vice President Dick Cheney. Above left, Representative Steven R. Rothman of Hackensack with the new speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg meets with members of his staff in Washington. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
WITH THE ADVANTAGE -- Top, from left, four Democratic representatives: Nancy Boyda of Kansas, Albio Sires of New Jersey, Charles B. Rangel of Harlem and Jan Schakowsky of Illinois. Right, Representative Frank Pallone Jr., at left, confers with Representative Jay Inslee of Washington State. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Chart: ''Shift in Power''With Democrats now in control of Congress, some members have new roles and committee assignments.SenateNEW JERSEYRobert MenendezNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Foreign Relations
BudgetOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Budget
EnergyFrank R. LautenbergNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Commerce
Appropriations
Environment and Public WorksOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Commerce
Environment
Homeland Security and Governmental AffairsHouseNEW JERSEY DEMOCRATSRobert E. AndrewsNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Education and LaborOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Education and Workforce***Frank Pallone Jr.NEW ASSIGNMENT -- Energy and Commerce
ResourcesOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Energy and Commerce
ResourcesBill Pascrell Jr.NEW ASSIGNMENT -- Ways and MeansOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Homeland Security
Transportation and InfrastructureSteven R. RothmanNEW ASSIGNMENT -- AppropriationsOLD ASSIGNMENT -- AppropriationsDonald M. PayneNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Education and Labor, Foreign Affairs**OLD ASSIGNMENT -- Education and the Workforce***
International RelationsRush D. HoltNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Education and LaborOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Education and the Workforce***
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence*Albio SiresNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Financial ServicesOLD ASSIGNMENT --NEW JERSEY REPUBLICANSFrank A. LoBiondoNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Transportation and InfrastructureOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Transportation and InfrastructureJim SaxtonNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Resources
Joint Economic CommitteeOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Resources
chairman, Joint Economic CommitteeChristopher H. SmithNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Foreign Affairs**OLD ASSIGNMENT -- Vice chairman, International RelationsScott GarrettNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Budget
Financial ServicesOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Budget
Financial ServicesMike FergusonNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Energy and CommerceOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Energy and CommerceRodney P. FrelinghuysenNEW ASSIGNMENT -- AppropriationsOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Appropriations* New member** Committee name changed from International Relations. *** Committee name changed back to Education and Labor.(Sources by Interviews with Senate and House staff members
 Fall 2006 CQ Press Congressional Staff Directory)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); CITIES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TERRORISM (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); RAIL FREIGHT (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: FRANK PALLONE JR (88%); JAY INSLEE (79%); BARNEY FRANK (78%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (78%); NITA M LOWEY (73%); NANCY E BOYDA (73%); ROSA DELAURO (73%); ALBIO SIRES (73%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); JAN SCHAKOWSKY (58%); STEVEN R ROTHMAN (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey; New York City Metropolitan Area; Connecticut; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



305 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2360 words

HEADLINE: In Control on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONLY a few weeks ago, Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro of Connecticut and Nita M. Lowey of Westchester were in the legislative equivalent of dead-end jobs: Democrats in a chamber tightly controlled by Republicans.
 But with Democrats now in power under the newly formed 110th Congress, the two lawmakers are back as ''cardinals,'' in coveted top-tier positions on the House Appropriations Committee that give them a significant say over how billions of dollars in federal aid are spent.
The experience of these two congresswomen underscores how the November elections have boosted the fortunes of the heavily Democratic Congressional delegations from the New York metropolitan region -- a group made up of everything from urban liberals and suburban moderates to policy geeks and smooth political operators.
 After having spent more than a decade in the political wilderness, with Congress in the hands of conservative Republicans mostly from other regions of the country, Democrats from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are eager to take control. 
 In large part, they will concentrate on shaping the national agenda on issues like health care, education, terrorism and the war in Iraq. But members of the tristate delegation say that they will also be focused on parochial matters, most notably getting federal money for homeland security initiatives as well as for the region's aging highway and mass transportation systems.
 In interviews, local, state and federal officials from the region provided a laundry list of need that is daunting by any standard, including:
 As much as $7 billion to connect New York City and Long Island to the national rail freight system with the construction of a cross-harbor tunnel intended to reduce truck congestion on highways and roads.
 $2 billion for a rail link connecting the World Trade Center site to the Long Island Rail Road and Kennedy International Airport; $500 million for a Metro-North railroad link across the Hudson River to connect Stewart International Airport in Newburgh with the New York City area.
 $6 billion for a New Jersey Transit train tunnel under the Hudson River, which would include a loop south of Secaucus Junction and give riders on the Bergen, Main and Pascack Valley Lines a direct ride into Pennsylvania Station without having to switch trains in Secaucus or Hoboken.
 $700 million on top of billions of dollars already set aside for a project to link the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal via a tunnel along 63rd Street in Manhattan.
 Jeremy Soffin of the Regional Plan Association, however, sought to lower expectations. While area lawmakers are clearly well positioned to secure individual projects for their districts and states, he said, the test for them will be whether they can prod Congress into making fundamental changes to federal policies in several areas that have often neglected the needs of older metropolitan regions like New York City.
 ''We have to have realistic expectations about what a new Congress will mean for our region,'' he said. ''We would expect more money coming our way in the form of pork in the short term. But there won't be a lasting impact unless there is a shift to prioritize federal investment in metropolitan regions.''
 Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, did not disagree with that contention and noted that the thin majorities the Democrats possess, particularly in the Senate, add to the challenge. But he said that the regional delegation could make progress through alliances with lawmakers from metropolitan regions from other parts of the country.
 ''It will be more difficult but still possible,'' he said in a recent interview, referring to overall changes in federal policy. ''We now have people in positions to work with us and make it better. We won't get everything we want, but we can try to make it better.''
 The jockeying for federal aid has already begun.
 In December, for example, New York's newly elected governor, Eliot Spitzer, met with the state's Congressional delegation. Their discussion focused, in part, on increasing the federal government's contribution to the state's vast Medicaid program, whose costs have helped contribute to soaring property taxes in counties around the state, particularly in the New York City suburbs.
 Then earlier this month, just after Democrats officially took control of both chambers in Congress, members of the delegation protested a plan by the Department of Homeland Security to require New York City to share federal terror grants with northern New Jersey. The department decided to treat New York City and northern New Jersey -- including Jersey City and Newark -- as one region instead of treating them separately. But leading delegation members warned that they would move to block the plan if it turned out to be nothing more than a pretext to cut the region's security money.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said that if the agency ''gives out money based on a combined New York and New Jersey area, it better be two full loaves, not half for each.''
 With the 110th Congress now in session, lawmakers from the region hold several important positions in both chambers, enhancing their ability to influence the flow of legislation on issues that affect all three states.
 In the Senate, for example, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who formally announced last week that he is seeking the Democratic nomination for president, is taking over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee. The panel has jurisdiction over billions of dollars in federal mass transit aid, and over laws that affect the scores of financial institutions that make up the region's economic backbone.
 Joseph I. Lieberman, the other senator from Connecticut, will be the only other senator from the region to hold a full-committee chairmanship -- on the Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committee.
 Frank R. Lautenberg, the senior senator from New Jersey, holds positions on two committees that have significant say over the fate of local projects, the Environment and Public Works Committee and the Appropriations Committee.
 Politically, the tristate region has another powerful advantage in that chamber. All the senators from the region are part of the new Democratic majority in the Senate. (Mr. Lieberman ran as an Independent, but is caucusing with the Democrats and describes himself as an Independent Democrat.) 
 In Mr. Schumer's case, he has a direct line to the new majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, as one of Mr. Reid's top political lieutenants in that chamber. (Mr. Reid recently appointed Mr. Schumer vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the No. 3 leadership position in the Senate, as a reward for the election victories Mr. Schumer helped orchestrate as chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee last fall.)
 As for the junior senator from New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, a leading contender for her party's presidential nomination, she is in position to collect favors after having spent much of her time in the last election campaigning and raising money on behalf of her Democratic colleagues in both chambers.
 The region also has several powerful players in the House. The job of vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the fifth-most powerful position in that chamber, will go to John B. Larson of East Hartford, Conn.
 BEYOND that, several lawmakers from the region's House delegation will be leading crucially important panels. These lawmakers include Louise M. Slaughter, from western New York, who will be chairwoman of the Rules Committee, the panel that Republican leaders employed to limit any floor debate and amendments affecting bills they favored; and Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, who as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee will shape tax policy and oversee some of the federal government's largest entitlement programs.
 Besides Mrs. Lowey and Mrs. DeLauro, the region will have several other Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, including Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx, who will also hold the rank of ''cardinal,'' as the heads of appropriations subcommittees are known on Capitol Hill. The other Democrats on the Appropriations Committee are Representatives Maurice D. Hinchey of the New York's Hudson Valley, Steven R. Rothman of Hackensack, N.J., and Steve Israel of Long Island. The Appropriations Committee, among other things, receives thousands of individual spending requests annually from lawmakers seeking money for pet projects back home. 
 ''We have a great team in place on influential committees,'' Mrs. Lowey said, referring to the region's House delegation. ''We are in a position to deliver.''
 Even some of the regional delegation's newcomers are moving quickly to establish themselves as go-to guys and gals.
 Joseph Courtney, who defeated a Republican incumbent, Rob Simmons, in the Second District in eastern Connecticut, was recently given a seat on the Armed Services Committee after lobbying hard for it. Mr. Courtney and his aides say that the seat will position him to steer military money and projects into the district, where the Navy has a submarine base in Groton and where the Electric Boat Corporation, a Navy contractor, builds submarines. 
 ''I'm ready to go to work,'' Mr. Courtney said last week, less than an hour after being sworn into office.
 It is easy to see why New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have been routinely overlooked in the national political calculus. All three states have consistently (and solidly) voted Democratic in the last four presidential elections, meaning Republican leaders in Washington have generally had little compelling political interest in catering to the region's needs.
 Beyond that, 29 of the region's 47 House members, or 62 percent, were Democrats going into the midterm elections last year. And Republicans from the region tend to be moderates whose positions on social issues like abortion rights and gun control put them at odds with conservative leaders of the national party.
 (As it turns out, the midterm elections further solidified the region's standing as a Democratic stronghold, with Democrats defeating two Republican incumbents in Connecticut and two in New York. Democrats also picked up one Republican-held seat that became open in New York.)
 While political analysts in both parties agree that the Democratic ascendancy gives the region a stronger voice on the Hill, the recent elections brought mixed news. For example, Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island, is losing the chairmanship of the Committee on Homeland Security, a position that he used to steer more money to New York City and other area localities considered at high risk of terrorist attack. The position will go to a Democrat, Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi.
 In an interview, Mr. King said that he expected to work well with Mr. Thompson, though he noted that he believed he would do ''a better job'' for the New York region than his Mississippi colleague.
 ''I have to play the cards I've been dealt,'' he said. ''We're still in a pretty good spot because I am the top Republican on the committee. Which means that if Democrats want to get anything done, they have to work with the administration. Which means that Democrats will have to work with me because I will be the administration's man on the committee. And if the administration wants to get anything done, it has to work with the Democrats on the committee. And it will have to work through me to work with the Democrats.
 ''Ultimately,'' he continued, ''I see myself as New York's man on the committee.''
 Politicians and other officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut agreed that a top priority of theirs was securing federal dollars for the reconstruction and maintenance of the region's network of highways, bridges and tunnels, and its subways and commuter railroads.
 Mr. Schumer argues that the region's transportation system is nearing capacity during peak hours of travel and must be expanded to absorb the region's rapid growth over the last few decades. In the past, he said, transportation projects in the region had often been dealt with in isolation. He suggested that the challenge for tristate lawmakers would be to work across traditional governmental boundaries, with an eye toward building a coherent system that ties the entire region together.
 ''We are the largest metropolitan region in the country, and we are bedeviled by the fact that we have numerous jurisdictions -- state, county and town,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We need to connect the region.''


James T. Walsh

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

Thomas M. Reynolds

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Ways and Means

OLD ASSIGNMENT
House Administration; Ways and Means; Joint Committee on Printing

Peter T. King

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Homeland Security; Financial Services

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Chairman, Homeland Security; International Relations

John M. McHugh

NEW ASSIGNMENT
House Republican Steering Committee

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services; Government Relations; Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence

DEMOCRATS

Louise M. Slaughter

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairwoman of Rules

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Ranking minority member on Rules

Charles B. Rangel

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairman of Ways and Means

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Ranking minority member on Ways and Means; Joint Committee on Taxation

Nydia Velazquez

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairwoman of Small Business

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Financial Services; Small Business

Steve Israel

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services; Financial Services

Carolyn McCarthy

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Education and Labor; Financial Services

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Education and the Workforce**; Financial Services

Nita M. Lowey

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Homeland Security

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Homeland Security

*John J. Hall

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Transportation and Infrastructure

*Kirsten E. Gillibrand

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services

Maurice D. Hinchey

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Joint Economic Committee

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Joint Economic Committee

*New member **Committee name changed back to Education and Labor.

(Source by Interviews with Senate and House staff members)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THEIR HANDS -- Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is sworn in by Vice President Dick Cheney, with former President Bill Clinton by her side. Above left, Representative Nita M. Lowey chats with a freshman representative, John Hall. Senator Charles E. Schumer greets well wishers at a Capitol Hill party. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
WOMEN AT WORK -- Above, Representative Louise Slaughter, from western New York, during a vote in the House. Right, Representative Carolyn McCarthy of Long Island, who begins her sixth term, in her Washington office. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Shift in Power''With Democrats now in control of Congress, some members have new roles and committee assignments.Senate, New YorkHillary Rodham ClintonNEW ASSIGNMENTArmed Services
Environment and Public Works
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
AgingOLD ASSIGNMENTArmed Services
Environment
Health
AgingCharles E. SchumerNEW ASSIGNMENTChairman of Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and vice chairman of Democratic Caucus
chairman of Joint Economic Committee
Judiciary
Committeeon Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Finance
RulesOLD ASSIGNMENTMinority member, Committee on Banking, Housing and UrbanAffairs
Finance
Judiciary
 RulesHouse, New YorkREPUBLICANS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); CITIES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); IRAQ WAR (66%); TERRORISM (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); RAIL FREIGHT (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%) Senate (US)

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ROSA DELAURO (73%); JOHN J HALL (58%); CAROLYN MCCARTHY (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New York State; New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



306 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2089 words

HEADLINE: In Control on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONLY a few weeks ago, Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro of Connecticut and Nita M. Lowey of Westchester were in the legislative equivalent of dead-end jobs: Democrats in a chamber tightly controlled by Republicans.
 But with Democrats now in power under the newly formed 110th Congress, the two lawmakers are back as ''cardinals,'' in coveted top-tier positions on the House Appropriations Committee that give them a significant say over how billions of dollars in federal aid are spent.
The experience of these two congresswomen underscores how the November elections have boosted the fortunes of the heavily Democratic Congressional delegations from the New York metropolitan region -- a group made up of everything from urban liberals and suburban moderates to policy geeks and smooth political operators.
 After having spent more than a decade in the political wilderness, with Congress in the hands of conservative Republicans mostly from other regions of the country, Democrats from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are eager to take control. 
 In large part, they will concentrate on shaping the national agenda on issues like health care, education, terrorism and the war in Iraq. But members of the tristate delegation say that they will also be focused on parochial matters, most notably getting federal money for homeland security initiatives as well as for the region's aging highway and mass transportation systems.
 In interviews, local, state and federal officials from the region provided a laundry list of need that is daunting by any standard, including:
 As much as $7 billion to connect New York City and Long Island to the national rail freight system with the construction of a cross-harbor tunnel intended to reduce truck congestion on highways and roads.
 $2 billion for a rail link connecting the World Trade Center site to the Long Island Rail Road and Kennedy International Airport; $500 million for a Metro-North railroad link across the Hudson River to connect Stewart International Airport in Newburgh with the New York City area.
 $6 billion for a New Jersey Transit train tunnel under the Hudson River, which would include a loop south of Secaucus Junction and give riders on the Bergen, Main and Pascack Valley Lines a direct ride into Pennsylvania Station without having to switch trains in Secaucus or Hoboken.
 $700 million on top of billions of dollars already set aside for a project to link the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal via a tunnel along 63rd Street in Manhattan.
 Jeremy Soffin of the Regional Plan Association, however, sought to lower expectations. While area lawmakers are clearly well positioned to secure individual projects for their districts and states, he said, the test for them will be whether they can prod Congress into making fundamental changes to federal policies in several areas that have often neglected the needs of older metropolitan regions like New York City.
 ''We have to have realistic expectations about what a new Congress will mean for our region,'' he said. ''We would expect more money coming our way in the form of pork in the short term. But there won't be a lasting impact unless there is a shift to prioritize federal investment in metropolitan regions.''
 Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, did not disagree with that contention and noted that the thin majorities the Democrats possess, particularly in the Senate, add to the challenge. But he said that the regional delegation could make progress through alliances with lawmakers from metropolitan regions from other parts of the country.
 ''It will be more difficult but still possible,'' he said in a recent interview, referring to overall changes in federal policy. ''We now have people in positions to work with us and make it better. We won't get everything we want, but we can try to make it better.''
 The jockeying for federal aid has already begun.
 In December, for example, New York's newly elected governor, Eliot Spitzer, met with the state's Congressional delegation. Their discussion focused, in part, on increasing the federal government's contribution to the state's vast Medicaid program, whose costs have helped contribute to soaring property taxes in counties around the state, particularly in the New York City suburbs.
 Then earlier this month, just after Democrats officially took control of both chambers in Congress, members of the delegation protested a plan by the Department of Homeland Security to require New York City to share federal terror grants with northern New Jersey. The department decided to treat New York City and northern New Jersey -- including Jersey City and Newark -- as one region instead of treating them separately. But leading delegation members warned that they would move to block the plan if it turned out to be nothing more than a pretext to cut the region's security money.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said that if the agency ''gives out money based on a combined New York and New Jersey area, it better be two full loaves, not half for each.''
 With the 110th Congress now in session, lawmakers from the region hold several important positions in both chambers, enhancing their ability to influence the flow of legislation on issues that affect all three states.
 In the Senate, for example, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who formally announced last week that he is seeking the Democratic nomination for president, is taking over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee. The panel has jurisdiction over billions of dollars in federal mass transit aid, and over laws that affect the scores of financial institutions that make up the region's economic backbone.
 Joseph I. Lieberman, the other senator from Connecticut, will be the only other senator from the region to hold a full-committee chairmanship -- on the Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committee.
 Frank R. Lautenberg, the senior senator from New Jersey, holds positions on two committees that have significant say over the fate of local projects, the Environment and Public Works Committee and the Appropriations Committee.
 Politically, the tristate region has another powerful advantage in that chamber. All the senators from the region are part of the new Democratic majority in the Senate. (Mr. Lieberman ran as an Independent, but is caucusing with the Democrats and describes himself as an Independent Democrat.) 
 In Mr. Schumer's case, he has a direct line to the new majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, as one of Mr. Reid's top political lieutenants in that chamber. (Mr. Reid recently appointed Mr. Schumer vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the No. 3 leadership position in the Senate, as a reward for the election victories Mr. Schumer helped orchestrate as chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee last fall.)
 As for the junior senator from New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, a leading contender for her party's presidential nomination, she is in position to collect favors after having spent much of her time in the last election campaigning and raising money on behalf of her Democratic colleagues in both chambers.
 The region also has several powerful players in the House. The job of vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the fifth-most powerful position in that chamber, will go to John B. Larson of East Hartford, Conn.
 BEYOND that, several lawmakers from the region's House delegation will be leading crucially important panels. These lawmakers include Louise M. Slaughter, from western New York, who will be chairwoman of the Rules Committee, the panel that Republican leaders employed to limit any floor debate and amendments affecting bills they favored; and Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, who as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee will shape tax policy and oversee some of the federal government's largest entitlement programs.
 Besides Mrs. Lowey and Mrs. DeLauro, the region will have several other Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, including Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx, who will also hold the rank of ''cardinal,'' as the heads of appropriations subcommittees are known on Capitol Hill. The other Democrats on the Appropriations Committee are Representatives Maurice D. Hinchey of the New York's Hudson Valley, Steven R. Rothman of Hackensack, N.J., and Steve Israel of Long Island. The Appropriations Committee, among other things, receives thousands of individual spending requests annually from lawmakers seeking money for pet projects back home. 
 ''We have a great team in place on influential committees,'' Mrs. Lowey said, referring to the region's House delegation. ''We are in a position to deliver.''
 Even some of the regional delegation's newcomers are moving quickly to establish themselves as go-to guys and gals.
 Joseph Courtney, who defeated a Republican incumbent, Rob Simmons, in the Second District in eastern Connecticut, was recently given a seat on the Armed Services Committee after lobbying hard for it. Mr. Courtney and his aides say that the seat will position him to steer military money and projects into the district, where the Navy has a submarine base in Groton and where the Electric Boat Corporation, a Navy contractor, builds submarines. 
 ''I'm ready to go to work,'' Mr. Courtney said last week, less than an hour after being sworn into office.
 It is easy to see why New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have been routinely overlooked in the national political calculus. All three states have consistently (and solidly) voted Democratic in the last four presidential elections, meaning Republican leaders in Washington have generally had little compelling political interest in catering to the region's needs.
 Beyond that, 29 of the region's 47 House members, or 62 percent, were Democrats going into the midterm elections last year. And Republicans from the region tend to be moderates whose positions on social issues like abortion rights and gun control put them at odds with conservative leaders of the national party.
 (As it turns out, the midterm elections further solidified the region's standing as a Democratic stronghold, with Democrats defeating two Republican incumbents in Connecticut and two in New York. Democrats also picked up one Republican-held seat that became open in New York.)
 While political analysts in both parties agree that the Democratic ascendancy gives the region a stronger voice on the Hill, the recent elections brought mixed news. For example, Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island, is losing the chairmanship of the Committee on Homeland Security, a position that he used to steer more money to New York City and other area localities considered at high risk of terrorist attack. The position will go to a Democrat, Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi.
 In an interview, Mr. King said that he expected to work well with Mr. Thompson, though he noted that he believed he would do ''a better job'' for the New York region than his Mississippi colleague.
 ''I have to play the cards I've been dealt,'' he said. ''We're still in a pretty good spot because I am the top Republican on the committee. Which means that if Democrats want to get anything done, they have to work with the administration. Which means that Democrats will have to work with me because I will be the administration's man on the committee. And if the administration wants to get anything done, it has to work with the Democrats on the committee. And it will have to work through me to work with the Democrats.
 ''Ultimately,'' he continued, ''I see myself as New York's man on the committee.''
 Politicians and other officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut agreed that a top priority of theirs was securing federal dollars for the reconstruction and maintenance of the region's network of highways, bridges and tunnels, and its subways and commuter railroads.
 Mr. Schumer argues that the region's transportation system is nearing capacity during peak hours of travel and must be expanded to absorb the region's rapid growth over the last few decades. He suggested that the challenge for tristate lawmakers would be to work across traditional governmental boundaries, with an eye toward building a coherent system that ties the entire region together.
 ''We are the largest metropolitan region in the country, and we are bedeviled by the fact that we have numerous jurisdictions -- state, county and town,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We need to connect the region.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THEIR HANDS -- Top, Representative Rosa L. DeLauro with Nancy Pelosi, the new House speaker. Above left, Senator Christopher J. Dodd greets Senator Pete V. Domenici. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman with Senators Barack Obama and Orrin G. Hatch. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
(Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
WITH THE ADVANTAGE -- Representative Rosa L. DeLauro congratulates the new speaker, Nancy Pelosi, on the floor of the House. Representative John B. Larson of East Hartford meets with his staff in Washington. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Shift in Power''With Democrats now in control of Congress, some members have new roles and committee assignments.SenateCONNECTICUTChristopher J. DoddNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Chairman of the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban affairs
Foreign Relations
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Rules and AdministrationOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Foreign Relations
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
ranking minority member, Rules and administrationJoseph I. LiebermanNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Chairman of Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Armed Services
Environment and Public Works
Small BusinessOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Environment
ranking minority member, Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Small BusinessNEW YORKHillary Rodham ClintonNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Environment and Public Works
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
AgingOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Armed Services
Environment
Health
Aging
Commission on Security and Cooperation in EuropeCharles E. SchumerNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Chairman of Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and vice chairman of Democratic Caucus
chairman of Joint Economic Committee
Judiciary
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Finance
RulesOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Minority member
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Finance
JudiciaryNEW JERSEYRobert MenendezNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Foreign Relations
BudgetOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Budget
Energy and CommerceFrank R. LautenbergNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Commerce
Appropriations
Environment and Public WorksOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Commerce
Environment
Homeland Security and Governmental AffairsHouse *New memberCONNECTICUT DEMOCRATS*John B. LarsonNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Vice chairman, Democratic CaucusOLD ASSIGNMENT --*Joseph CourtneyNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Armed ServicesOLD ASSIGNMENT --Rosa L. DeLauroNEW ASSIGNMENT -- AppropriationsOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Appropriations
Budget*Christopher S. MurphyNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Oversight and Government ReformOLD ASSIGNMENT --CONNECTICUT REPUBLICANChristopher ShaysNEW ASSIGNMENT -- Financial Services
Oversight and Government ReformOLD ASSIGNMENT -- Financial Services
vice chairman, Oversight and Government Reform
Homeland Security(Sources by Interviews with Senate and House staff members
 Fall 2006 CQ Press Congressional Staff Directory)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); CITIES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TERRORISM (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); RAIL FREIGHT (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (92%); DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: ROSA DELAURO (90%); NITA M LOWEY (73%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); JOHN LARSON (73%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); PETE DOMENICI (57%) Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Connecticut; New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



307 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: In Control on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONLY a few weeks ago, Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro of Connecticut and Nita M. Lowey of Westchester were in the legislative equivalent of dead-end jobs: Democrats in a chamber tightly controlled by Republicans.
 But with Democrats now in power under the newly formed 110th Congress, the two lawmakers are back as ''cardinals,'' in coveted top-tier positions on the House Appropriations Committee that give them a significant say over how billions of dollars in federal aid are spent.
The experience of these two congresswomen underscores how the November elections have boosted the fortunes of the heavily Democratic Congressional delegations from the New York metropolitan region -- a group made up of everything from urban liberals and suburban moderates to policy geeks and smooth political operators.
 After having spent more than a decade in the political wilderness, with Congress in the hands of conservative Republicans mostly from other regions of the country, Democrats from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are eager to take control. 
 In large part, they will concentrate on shaping the national agenda on issues like health care, education, terrorism and the war in Iraq. But members of the tristate delegation say that they will also be focused on parochial matters, most notably getting federal money for homeland security initiatives as well as for the region's aging highway and mass transportation systems.
 In interviews, local, state and federal officials from the region provided a laundry list of need that is daunting by any standard, including:
 As much as $7 billion to connect New York City and Long Island to the national rail freight system with the construction of a cross-harbor tunnel intended to reduce truck congestion on highways and roads.
 $2 billion for a rail link connecting the World Trade Center site to the Long Island Rail Road and Kennedy International Airport; $500 million for a Metro-North railroad link across the Hudson River to connect Stewart International Airport in Newburgh with the New York City area.
 $6 billion for a New Jersey Transit train tunnel under the Hudson River, which would include a loop south of Secaucus Junction and give riders on the Bergen, Main and Pascack Valley Lines a direct ride into Pennsylvania Station without having to switch trains in Secaucus or Hoboken.
 $700 million on top of billions of dollars already set aside for a project to link the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal via a tunnel along 63rd Street in Manhattan.
 Jeremy Soffin of the Regional Plan Association, however, sought to lower expectations. While area lawmakers are clearly well positioned to secure individual projects for their districts and states, he said, the test for them will be whether they can prod Congress into making fundamental changes to federal policies in several areas that have often neglected the needs of older metropolitan regions like New York City.
 ''We have to have realistic expectations about what a new Congress will mean for our region,'' he said. ''We would expect more money coming our way in the form of pork in the short term. But there won't be a lasting impact unless there is a shift to prioritize federal investment in metropolitan regions.''
 Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, did not disagree with that contention and noted that the thin majorities the Democrats possess, particularly in the Senate, add to the challenge. But he said that the regional delegation could make progress through alliances with lawmakers from metropolitan regions from other parts of the country.
 ''It will be more difficult but still possible,'' he said in a recent interview, referring to overall changes in federal policy. ''We now have people in positions to work with us and make it better. We won't get everything we want, but we can try to make it better.''
 The jockeying for federal aid has already begun.
 In December, for example, New York's newly elected governor, Eliot Spitzer, met with the state's Congressional delegation. Their discussion focused, in part, on increasing the federal government's contribution to the state's vast Medicaid program, whose costs have helped contribute to soaring property taxes in counties around the state, particularly in the New York City suburbs.
 Then earlier this month, just after Democrats officially took control of both chambers in Congress, members of the delegation protested a plan by the Department of Homeland Security to require New York City to share federal terror grants with northern New Jersey. The department decided to treat New York City and northern New Jersey -- including Jersey City and Newark -- as one region instead of treating them separately. But leading delegation members warned that they would move to block the plan if it turned out to be nothing more than a pretext to cut the region's security money.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said that if the agency ''gives out money based on a combined New York and New Jersey area, it better be two full loaves, not half for each.''
 With the 110th Congress now in session, lawmakers from the region hold several important positions in both chambers, enhancing their ability to influence the flow of legislation on issues that affect all three states.
 In the Senate, for example, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who formally announced last week that he is seeking the Democratic nomination for president, is taking over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee. The panel has jurisdiction over billions of dollars in federal mass transit aid, and over laws that affect the scores of financial institutions that make up the region's economic backbone.
 Joseph I. Lieberman, the other senator from Connecticut, will be the only other senator from the region to hold a full-committee chairmanship -- on the Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committee.
 Frank R. Lautenberg, the senior senator from New Jersey, holds positions on two committees that have significant say over the fate of local projects, the Environment and Public Works Committee and the Appropriations Committee.
 Politically, the tristate region has another powerful advantage in that chamber. All the senators from the region are part of the new Democratic majority in the Senate. (Mr. Lieberman ran as an Independent, but is caucusing with the Democrats and describes himself as an Independent Democrat.) 
 In Mr. Schumer's case, he has a direct line to the new majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, as one of Mr. Reid's top political lieutenants in that chamber. (Mr. Reid recently appointed Mr. Schumer vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the No. 3 leadership position in the Senate, as a reward for the election victories Mr. Schumer helped orchestrate as chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee last fall.)
 As for the junior senator from New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, a leading contender for her party's presidential nomination, she is in position to collect favors after having spent much of her time in the last election campaigning and raising money on behalf of her Democratic colleagues in both chambers.
 The region also has several powerful players in the House. The job of vice chairman of the Democratic caucus, the fifth-most powerful position in that chamber, will go to John B. Larson of East Hartford, Conn.
 BEYOND that, several lawmakers from the region's House delegation will be leading crucially important panels. These lawmakers include Louise M. Slaughter, from western New York, who will be chairwoman of the Rules Committee, the panel that Republican leaders employed to limit any floor debate and amendments affectingbills they favored; and Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, who as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee will shape tax policy and oversee some of the federal government's largest entitlement programs.
 Besides Mrs. Lowey and Mrs. DeLauro, the region will have several other Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, including Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx, who will also hold the rank of ''cardinal,'' as the heads of appropriations subcommittees are known on Capitol Hill. The other Democrats on the Appropriations Committee are Representatives Maurice D. Hinchey of the New York's Hudson Valley, Steven R. Rothman of Hackensack, N.J., and Steve Israel of Long Island. The Appropriations Committee, among other things, receives thousands of individual spending requests annually from lawmakers seeking money for pet projects back home. 
 ''We have a great team in place on influential committees,'' Mrs. Lowey said, referring to the region's House delegation. ''We are in a position to deliver.''
 Even some of the regional delegation's newcomers are moving quickly to establish themselves as go-to guys and gals.
 Joseph Courtney, who defeated a Republican incumbent, Rob Simmons, in the Second District in eastern Connecticut, was recently given a seat on the Armed Services Committee after lobbying hard for it. Mr. Courtney and his aides say that the seat will position him to steer military money and projects into the district, where the Navy has a submarine base in Groton and where the Electric Boat Corporation, a Navy contractor, builds submarines. 
 ''I'm ready to go to work,'' Mr. Courtney said last week, less than an hour after being sworn into office.
 It is easy to see why New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have been routinely overlooked in the national political calculus. All three states have consistently (and solidly) voted Democratic in the last four presidential elections, meaning Republican leaders in Washington have generally had little compelling political interest in catering to the region's needs.
 Beyond that, 29 of the region's 47 House members, or 62 percent, were Democrats going into the midterm elections last year. And Republicans from the region tend to be moderates whose positions on social issues like abortion rights and gun control put them at odds with conservative leaders of the national party.
 (As it turns out, the midterm elections further solidified the region's standing as a Democratic stronghold, with Democrats defeating two Republican incumbents in Connecticut and two in New York. Democrats also picked up one Republican-held seat that became open in New York.)
 While political analysts in both parties agree that the Democratic ascendancy gives the region a stronger voice on the Hill, the recent elections brought mixed news. For example, Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island, is losing the chairmanship of the Committee on Homeland Security, a position that he used to steer more money to New York City and other area localities considered at high risk of terrorist attack. The position will go to a Democrat, Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi.
 In an interview, Mr. King said that he expected to work well with Mr. Thompson, though he noted that he believed he would do ''a better job'' for the New York region than his Mississippi colleague.
 ''I have to play the cards I've been dealt,'' he said. ''We're still in a pretty good spot because I am the top Republican on the committee. Which means that if Democrats want to get anything done, they have to work with the administration. Which means that Democrats will have to work with me because I will be the administration's man on the committee. And if the administration wants to get anything done, it has to work with the Democrats on the committee. And it will have to work through me to work with the Democrats.
 ''Ultimately,'' he continued, ''I see myself as New York's man on the committee.''
 Politicians and other officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut agreed that a top priority of theirs was securing federal dollars for the reconstruction and maintenance of the region's network of highways, bridges and tunnels, and its subways and commuter railroads.
 Mr. Schumer argues that the region's transportation system is nearing capacity during peak hours of travel and must be expanded to absorb the region's rapid growth. In the past, he said, transportation projects in the region had often been dealt with in isolation, resulting in today's individual systems. He suggested that the challenge for tristate lawmakers would be to work across traditional governmental boundaries, with an eye toward building a coherent system that ties the entire region together.
 ''We are the largest metropolitan region in the country, and we are bedeviled by the fact that we have numerous jurisdictions -- state, county and town,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We need to connect the region.''


James T. Walsh

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

Thomas M. Reynolds

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Ways and Means

OLD ASSIGNMENT
House Administration; Ways and Means; Joint Committee on Printing

Peter T. King

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Homeland Security; Financial Services

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Chairman, Homeland Security; International Relations

John M. McHugh

NEW ASSIGNMENT
House Republican Steering Committee

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services; Government Relations; Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence

DEMOCRATS

Louise M. Slaughter

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairwoman of Rules

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Ranking minority member on Rules

Charles B. Rangel

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairman of Ways and Means

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Ranking minority member on Ways and Means; Joint Committee on Taxation

Nydia Velazquez

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Chairwoman of Small Business

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Financial Services; Small Business

Steve Israel

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services; Financial Services

Carolyn McCarthy

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Education and Labor; Financial Services

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Education and the Workforce**; Financial Services

Nita M. Lowey

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Homeland Security

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Homeland Security

*John J. Hall

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Transportation and Infrastructure

*Kirsten E. Gillibrand

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Armed Services

Maurice D. Hinchey

NEW ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Joint Economic Committee

OLD ASSIGNMENT
Appropriations; Joint Economic Committee

*New member **Committee name changed back to Education and Labor.

(Source by Interviews with Senate and House staff members)(pg. 12)

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THEIR HANDS -- Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is sworn in by Vice President Dick Cheney, with former President Bill Clinton by her side. Above left, Representative Nita M. Lowey chats with a freshman representative, John Hall. Senator Charles E. Schumer greets well wishers at a Capitol Hill party. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
WOMEN AT WORK -- Above, Representative Louise Slaughter, from western New York, during a vote in the House. Right, Representative Carolyn McCarthy of Long Island, who begins her sixth term, in her Washington office. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 12)Chart: ''Shift in Power''With Democrats now in control of Congress, some members have new roles and committee assignments.Senate, New YorkHillary Rodham ClintonNEW ASSIGNMENTArmed Services
Environment and Public Works
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
AgingOLD ASSIGNMENTArmed Services
Environment
Health
AgingCharles E. SchumerNEW ASSIGNMENTChairman of Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and vice chairman of Democratic Caucus
chairman of Joint Economic Committee
Judiciary
Committeeon Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Finance
RulesOLD ASSIGNMENTMinority member, Committee on Banking, Housing and UrbanAffairs
Finance
Judiciary
 RulesHouse, New YorkREPUBLICANS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); CITIES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); IRAQ WAR (66%); TERRORISM (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); RAIL FREIGHT (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%) Senate (US)

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ROSA DELAURO (73%); JOHN J HALL (58%); CAROLYN MCCARTHY (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New York State; New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



308 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asian Leaders Agree to Form Free-Trade Zone by 2015

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: CEBU, the Philippines, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations made progress toward its goal of economic and political integration at a summit meeting here on Saturday, but it was sidetracked by tensions over how to deal with Myanmar, which has come under fire for its poor human rights record.
 Leaders of the 10 members of the organization, known as Asean, agreed to establish a free-trade zone by 2015, intensify their fight against terrorism, protect the region's migrant workers and improve their campaign against H.I.V./AIDS. They also agreed to draft a new charter with broad enforcement powers -- a break from the 40-year-old group's tradition of consensus and noninterference. 
''We want to advance the sense of community in our shared interest to look after each other in terms of justice, economic development and common security,'' President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said during her speech at the opening of the meeting.
 Mrs. Arroyo emphasized Asean's drive to expand trade, ''to create one of the world's greatest trading blocs.''
 But the group failed to find common ground on Myanmar, formerly Burma. On Friday, China and Russia vetoed a United States resolution in the United Nations Security Council that criticized Myanmar's persecution of opposition groups.
 ''How are we going to help you if you are not making progress?'' Indonesia's president, Bambang Susilo Yudhoyono, told Myanmar's officials late Friday, according to Reuters.
 Nitya Pibulsonggram, Thailand's foreign minister, told reporters on Saturday that Asean should redouble its efforts ''to see what we can do to help one another,'' to give the Myanmar issue what he called ''a regional focus'' rather than ''have it internationalized.''
 Asean's new charter, which will be drafted this year, is expected to include mechanisms to monitor and enforce agreements among members, along the lines of the European Union's charter. 
 Two years ago, Asean formed a body called the Eminent Persons Group to create guidelines for the new charter. On Friday, it released a list of 28 recommendations, including the ''strengthening of democratic values, good governance, rejection of unconstitutional and undemocratic changes of government, respect of the rule of law, including international humanitarian law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.'' 
 In a sense, the charter is a bid to remain relevant as the economic power of China and India grows, something the group itself acknowledged. ''While the Asean charter will bring about a long overdue legal framework, Asean must reposition itself,'' it said in a statement. ''It must address the growing challenges and opportunities of regional integration, the major shifts in the Asian landscape brought about by the rise of China and India, and Asia's widening links with the rest of the world.'' China and India are not members of Asean.
 Asean leaders also signed a counterterrorism agreement that, among other things, makes it obligatory for each member country to share information about terrorist suspects and possibly allow their extradition. The accord called on members to disrupt terrorist financing and to train counterterrorism forces.
 Southeast Asia is home to some of the world's deadliest terrorist groups, among them Jemaah Islamiyah, which has links to Al Qaeda, and Abu Sayyaf, a group in the southern Philippines.
 Asean's members are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); MIGRANT WORKERS (76%); AIDS & HIV (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); VETO (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TERRORISM (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market; Terrorism; Labor; Migrant Labor; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (67%); SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (52%) Carlos H Conde

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (97%); ASIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); INDIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); INDONESIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%) Brunei; Cambodia; Indonesia; Laos; Malaysia; Myanmar; Philippines; Singapore; Thailand; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



309 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Prime Minister Takes Political Heat After Airport Attack by Basque Group 

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: MADRID, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
At his year-end news conference on Dec. 29, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero proclaimed that the peace initiative he had started with the Basque separatist movement ETA months before was making progress. 
 ''Are we better off now with a permanent cease-fire, or when we had bombs, car bombs and explosions?'' he asked. ''This time next year, we will be better off than we are today.''
The next morning, a bomb ETA had planted in a Renault van exploded in the five-story parking garage of Madrid's new air terminal, killing two people and causing tens of millions of dollars of damage to Spain's glittery showpiece of modernity. 
 Instead of bringing the political establishment of Spain together, the attack ripped it apart. It has left Mr. Zapatero more isolated than at any time in his nearly three years in power and sent the country's politicians into a frenzy of finger-pointing and backbiting. 
 ''We don't have a long tradition of democracy, and we're not used to dialogue,'' said Begona Lasagabaster, a parliamentary deputy from the tiny Basque nationalist party Eusko Alkartasuna. ''Instead, we say to each other: 'I'm right. You're not.' If your enemy is a terrorist organization and you can make your political opponent appear to be close to your enemy, you can gain politically.'' 
 Since the attack, the opposition Popular Party has stepped up its criticism of Mr. Zapatero and the dialogue he initiated with ETA, which is listed as a terrorist group by the European Union and the United States, after its announcement of a ''permanent cease-fire'' last March. 
 ''The government and the prime minister made a mistake in the strategy of their negotiation,'' Ana Pastor, a senior Popular Party official, said in an interview. ''They've got to correct that mistake. They believed in people who kept their pistols nearby.''
 Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba called such criticism ''politically perverse.'' He pointed out that the Socialists consistently supported the antiterrorism policies of the Popular Party when it was in power, even after ETA broke an earlier truce. ''It never occurred to us to criticize,'' he said in an interview. 
 But Mr. Zapatero, who had staked his political reputation on a risky strategy of luring ETA into talks in an attempt to end four decades of separatist violence, has hurt his position by appearing oddly detached since the bombing. 
 Spain, said Mariano Rajoy, the president of the Popular Party, ''is a ship drifting without a rudder.'' 
 Although Mr. Zapatero cut short his family vacation and headed back to Madrid immediately after the bombing, it took him five days to visit the vast bomb site. Mr. Rajoy, who lost to Mr. Zapatero in the 2004 election and may run again next year, was there two days earlier. 
 Even after the bombing, Mr. Zapatero seemed reluctant to end talks with ETA. In his first public statement to the nation on the night of the bombing, he ordered only a ''suspension.'' 
 The straight-talking Mr. Rubalcaba changed course three days later, saying that the dialogue had been ''broken off, liquidated, finished.'' 
 After a closed-door meeting with Mr. Zapatero early this week, Mr. Rajoy called a news conference at party headquarters in which he accused Mr. Zapatero of withholding from him information about the bomb attack and failing to lay out a strategy for combating terrorism in the future. 
 At the same time, Mr. Zapatero's deputy prime minister, Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega, held her own news conference in which she accused Mr. Rajoy of turning ''a deaf ear'' to working with the government in forging a common antiterrorism strategy. 
 The local Spanish-language CNN channel flipped back and forth between the news conferences, underscoring the political rivalry. 
 At a meeting of regional presidents on Friday, Mr. Zapatero made an unfortunate verbal slip, at first referring to the terrorist attack as a ''tragic accident,'' then immediately correcting himself and calling it a ''tragic attack.'' 
 The opposition Popular Party jumped on him again. Pedro Sanz, the Popular Party president of Rioja, criticized Mr. Zapatero for not apologizing. Manuel Chaves, the Socialist president of Andalucia, shot back that the criticism was ''indecent.''
 The bickering has even filtered down to planning for demonstrations on Saturday called by Spain's large Ecuadorean community and the country's labor unions to mourn the two Ecuadoreans who died in the bombing. 
 Endless negotiations have occurred throughout the week with the Popular Party, which said it would not participate because it objected to the demonstration's banner, ''For Peace and Against Terrorism.'' The banner also should have called for the defeat of ETA, party officials said. 
 Ultimately, the Popular Party chose not to take part, the first time a major party has avoided an anti-ETA demonstration since democracy returned to Spain in the 1970s.
 [Otherwise, the demonstrations went smoothly, with hundreds of thousands of people marching in Madrid, Bilbao and other cities, mostly in silence and carrying signs with slogans including ''For peace -- against terrorism,'' ''We are all victims of ETA'' and ''Peace is the task of all of us.''
 [But the absence of the Popular Party prompted other slogans as well, including ''Absences help ETA'' and ''Where is Gallardon?'' -- a reference to the Popular Party mayor of Madrid, Alberto Ruiz Gallardon.]
 ''The dead are being used for political purposes,'' said Joffre Pinzon, who is responsible for social affairs for an Ecuadorean citizens' group. ''We're talking about the pain that comes from the death of two of our countrymen. How can you have a country with such a high economic level that is so politically immature?''
 Some government officials and politicians also find the political bickering unseemly. There are still suspicions that that the center-right party is seeking revenge for its electoral loss in March 2004 by undermining the current government's ability to rule and trying to position itself for national elections in 14 months.
 The 2004 election occurred only three days after train bombings by Islamic terrorists in Madrid killed 191 people. At the time, Popular Party leaders said the party was the victim of circumstances, that the Socialist government was illegitimate and that the election was a triumph for terrorists. 
 ''Some people since March 2004 have been using terrorism as a political weapon and that is very dangerous,'' said Judge Baltasar Garzon, the country's most prominent investigative magistrate, in an interview. ''Some people unfortunately want terrorism to be the main plank in election politics. Instead of being united against the terrorists, it gets us fighting among ourselves. It gets us playing the terrorists' game.''
 Mr. Zapatero is not alone among Spanish leaders in not anticipating an imminent terrorist attack. On March 10, 2004, the departing prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar of the Popular Party, boasted in an interview that Spain had enjoyed eight years of ''spectacular economic growth'' under his leadership and that terrorism ''is a lot weaker than it was'' when he took office. 
 The next day, terrorists set off bombs on commuter trains in Madrid, the most deadly terrorist attack in Spain's modern history.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of thousands of people marched in cities across Spain yesterday, including Bilbao in the Basque Country, to protest the ETA bombing. (Photo by Vincent West/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Politics and Government ; Basques

ORGANIZATION: EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (59%) Eta (Basque Separatist Group)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (90%) Elaine Sciolino; Jose Luis Rodriguez (Prime Min) Zapatero

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (92%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%) Spain; Madrid (Spain); Spain

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



310 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: An Uphill Push for Public Opinion on Iraq 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Bush administration officials, acknowledging that the war in Iraq may get worse before it gets better, face a daunting public relations challenge as the White House pursues its new strategy to quash the insurgents.
 After President Bush's address to the nation this week, in which he promoted his strategy to increase the American military presence in Iraq, his aides conceded that more troops would mean more fighting and possibly more grisly televised images.
That prospect will do little to help the administration as it seeks to build public support for an increasing unpopular war. 
 Even if all goes according to plan, officials conceded in interviews, early signs of progress will do little to compete with continued or worsening signs of strife. 
 ''They need to engage these guys if they're going to make progress, and yet that's probably going to lead to less favorable news,'' said Thomas Patterson, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. ''He's in the position of trying to carry a piano upstairs.''
 Administration officials said that their strategy to quell the violence in Baghdad was in a race against dwindling public patience, but that it was a race they believed they could win. They said in interviews that they factored a potential spike in violence into the plan, and the effect it would have on public opinion. 
 They described a likely, initial increase in violence as an inevitable down payment for the better images out of Baghdad they hope will come later, and ultimately, more support for the Iraq campaign.
 ''The president gets it,'' said a senior administration official involved in the planning. ''He knows public opinion is not going to change until those images on the evening news improve.'' That official said reaching milestones would help, like a show of readiness by new Iraqi forces, or a new law creating an equitable mechanism to distribute oil revenues across the sectarian divide.
 But such benchmarks also give war critics in Congress a more clear-cut way to measure failure, said Dennis Ross, a Middle East envoy for President Clinton and for Mr. Bush's father. ''It gives you an actual measure by which to say, 'How are they doing: Are these things happening, or not?' '' he said. ''In an interesting way what the president has done for the first time is to create benchmarks to evaluate the administration's approach.''
 Even if the economic and political goals in the plan are swiftly achieved, they will only go so far in affecting public opinion as fighting continues: Images from a signing ceremony for an oil agreement are inevitably less compelling than pictures of exploding cars, charred bodies and American war dead.
 The complexities are causing no small bit of anxiety for Mr. Bush's allies, chief among them Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican whose support of a troop increase will be judged on its success during his likely presidential bid in 2008.
 Senator McCain said in an interview this week that he did not expect to see significant improvement on the ground in Iraq for ''at least a couple of months,'' adding, ''I very much worry about the casualties, from the human side to the political side.''
 The senator, who has harshly criticized the administration's failure to manage expectations in the past, said of the president, ''I would hope he would say how tough this is going to still be.''
 White House officials said that was the plan. ''You've heard the president say before that, as commander in chief, one of his most important responsibilities is informing the public about the course of the war,'' said Kevin Sullivan, the White House communications director. ''You'll see an ongoing effort to do that.''
 Mr. Bush stopped short of calling for great national sacrifice in his address, something some allies had suggested he do to prepare the public for more rough days ahead. But he did warn, ''Our enemies in Iraq will make every effort to ensure that our television screens are filled with images of death and suffering. Yet over time, we can expect to see Iraqi troops chasing down murderers, fewer brazen acts of terror, and growing trust and cooperation from Baghdad's residents.''
 But for now, Mr. Bush's decision to add troops -- despite election results that were widely interpreted as a ''no'' vote on the war -- has been taken as another sign that he is stubbornly going his own way against the public mood, a perception the White House was prepared for, senior administration officials said.
 Gambling metaphors were hard to escape this week in the news coverage of the plan, but they applied. The White House calculated that it had to promise a major change to get the public to give its latest new plan a hearing. But it raised the stakes for the administration in the process.
 ''It's a tremendous gamble -- the administration opens itself up to losing control of the policy if it isn't judged as succeeding,'' said Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former State Department official.
 ''There's a sense now that, with this, we will have done everything we can.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



311 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Iranian President Visits Venezuela to Strengthen Ties

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran arrived here on Saturday for talks with President Hugo Chavez, on the first leg of a Latin American visit to enhance Tehran's stature with governments where distrust of the Bush administration already runs deep.
 It is Mr. Ahmadinejad's second visit to Venezuela in the past five months, and the two leaders were scheduled to talk about strengthening their economic ties. From here, the Iranian president is to visit Ecuador and Nicaragua, where leftist presidents aligned with Mr. Chavez are taking office this month. 
Venezuela's government promoted the visit as an example of Middle Eastern solidarity with Mr. Chavez's opposition to American foreign policy. Venezuela has been a vociferous defender of Iran as the United States steps up efforts to circumscribe Mr. Ahmadinejad's government, most recently through military raids this week on people suspected of being Iranian operatives in Iraq. 
 State television here showed images of Mr. Chavez embracing Mr. Ahmadinejad and of Iranian cars rolling off an assembly line at a recently inaugurated factory in the city of Maracay. Fifty cadets from Venezuela's naval academy were on hand to receive the Iranian president at the international airport in Maiquetia.
 ''Welcome, fighter for just causes,'' Mr. Chavez said in a speech here before the National Assembly, describing Mr. Ahmadinejad as a ''revolutionary'' and a ''brother.'' 
 The two countries said Saturday night that they would use a $2 billion investment fund to finance projects in Venezuela and Iran, as well as in other countries. In addition, they said they were considering ventures to train teachers and produce manioc starch in Venezuela. Mr. Chavez also said Venezuela and Iran would press for exporting cuts within OPEC in an effort to push oil prices up from a 19-month low. 
 Nowhere has Iran's search for allies in Latin America been more fruitful than in Venezuela. The two countries have signed an array of agreements in recent months, pledging to work together here in exploring for oil, building low-income housing and assembling tractors and bicycles, among other ventures. 
 The tightening alliance with Iran comes as Mr. Chavez pushes for broad changes in Venezuela's political and economic structures. Just this week, Mr. Chavez's government said it would nationalize the entire electricity industry and the country's largest phone company. 
 Mr. Chavez also announced a plan which, according to some interpretations, would reconfigure municipal governments by replacing them with entities called communal councils. The president's supporters in Congress say the project is inspired by the Paris Commune, the socialist government that briefly ruled Paris in 1871. Critics of the plan, which also includes the construction of entirely new cities in Venezuela's interior, say it would effectively eliminate some of the few elected politicians who remain opposed to the government. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's visit has alarmed Jewish organizations here and elsewhere because of his aggressive talk in relation to Israel. Heinz Sonntag, a prominent Venezuelan sociologist and political commentator, said the visit by Mr. Ahmadinejad was an ''affront and an eventual threat to our fellow countrymen who are Jewish.'' 
 ''The invitation of this personality is the finishing touch on Chavez's announcements this week,'' said Mr. Sonntag. 
 Venezuela has a long history of close relations with Middle Eastern countries, dating to the founding of OPEC in Baghdad in 1960 by Venezuela, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, in an effort to keep oil prices high. Mr. Chavez has strengthened those ties through overtures to Iran, and more recently Syria, where Venezuela and Iran have plans to build an oil refinery capable of processing 150,000 barrels a day. 
 ''There is a desire by Chavez to accelerate what he views as a strategic alliance with Iran,'' said Alberto Garrido, author of ''Chavez's Wars,'' a book recently published here that explores Venezuela's ties to the Middle East. ''The Venezuelan left has for decades considered alliances with Muslim countries as one of the ways to create a new civilization through the toppling of American values.'' 
 For the time being, Venezuela's relations with Iran have revolved around Mr. Chavez's defense of Iran's uranium enrichment plans, while the two countries deepen their cooperation in oil-related areas. For instance, Venezuela said last month that it would buy four oil tankers from Iran, part of Venezuela's plan to increase its 21-ship tanker fleet through the acquisition of 42 additional vessels. 
 Iran and Venezuela, the world's fourth- and fifth-largest oil exporters, are also exploring for oil together in Venezuela's Orinoco region. And they have plans for a joint oil trading company, part of an ambition by Caracas and Tehran to price oil in euros instead of dollars in order to weaken the influence of the United States in the international oil market. 
 Iran seems to have also found a welcome in Ecuador, an oil-exporting country where Mr. Ahmadinejad will attend the inauguration of Rafael Correa, a leftist economist elected president last year. And in Nicaragua, Mr. Ahmadinejad will meet with Daniel Ortega, the former guerrilla leader who assumed the presidency this month.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez welcoming President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran in a government-issued photo. (Photo by Marcelo Garcia/Miraflores Press Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (64%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); OIL EXPLORATION (62%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); TERRORISM (59%); AIRPORTS (51%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Politics and Government

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (96%); HUGO CHAVEZ (93%) Simon Romero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ECUADOR (92%); IRAN (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Venezuela; Iran; Ecuador; Nicaragua; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007



312 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

AN ABBREVIATED CITIGROUP -- As part of a rebranding intended to shift the company's focus from deal making to internal and international growth, Citigroup is tentatively planning to shorten its name to Citi and replace its red umbrella logo with a stylized arc above the name. [Page C1.] 


TRYING TO HARNESS YOUTUBE -- YouTube, a newly powerful force in the media world, distributes unauthorized movie clips. But it can also help studios build tremendous buzz, and that is driving Hollywood to try to work with it instead of against it. [C1.]

CUTBACKS AT TIME -- Time Inc., the publishing division of Time Warner, is planning to cut more than 150 people, about half of them in editorial jobs across the company's best known magazines, like People, Sports Illustrated, Time and Fortune. [C1.]

A TOWN'S NEWSPAPER FEUD -- Since a full-blown war erupted last July between Wendy McCaw and the staff of her newspaper, The Santa Barbara News-Press, over protests that she was meddling in newsroom decisions, the hostilities have only spread in this upscale and usually peaceable seaside town. [C1.]

CANADIAN LAW CHALLENGED -- Leonard J. Asper, left, the chief executive of CanWest Global, a leading Canadian broadcaster, just made a major deal for Alliance Atlantis, creator of ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation'' and owner of lucrative specialty cable channels in Canada. But by relying on money from Goldman Sachs of New York for the bulk of the deal, Mr. Asper is directly challenging Canadian laws banning foreign control of broadcasters. [C6.]

FIRST AMENDMENT AND ELI LILLY -- A showdown is scheduled for a federal courtroom in Brooklyn between Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical giant, and lawyers representing individuals, organizations and Web sites who argue that their online speech has been gagged. [C3.]

BARGAINS FOR BIG SPENDERS -- Looking for a bargain weekend flight from New York to Florida? OneSky.com may have just the ticket, assuming you have $9,500 to spend, and you can find a return flight. E-Commerce Report. [C4.]

HEIR APPARENT AT BERTELSMANN -- Liz Mohn, below, the wife of the patriarch of Bertelsmann, the privately owned media conglomerate, will play a leading role in selecting its new chief executive, and Hartmut Ostrowski, the head of its printing subsidiary Arvato, is said to have the edge. [C5.]

STATION RESPONDS TO A BLOG -- A radio station in San Francisco pre-empted three hours of programming to play clips from its talk shows in response to a blogger's campaign against what he called insensitive and intolerant comments. [C3.]

ANOTHER MOVE TO PRIVATE EQUITY -- John Browne, BP chief executive, will move to the private equity firm Apax Partners in July. [C3.]

ASIAN TRADE PACT -- China signed a trade-in-services agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a step toward establishing a comprehensive free trade pact. [C2.]

SNOWLESS IN NEW ENGLAND -- New England's fickle weather has been the subject of many jokes, and it seemed to be playing one last week on Yankee magazine. [C5.]

DIVERSITY A VICTIM OF LAYOFFS -- Staff cuts at The Philadelphia Inquirer have taken a heavy toll among black journalists, who tend to have less seniority. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BRANDING (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); PUBLISHING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); TIME INC (83%); ELI LILLY & CO (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); LLY (SWX) (81%); LLY (NYSE) (81%); LEL (LSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



313 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Bloggers Take On Talk Radio Hosts

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
A San Francisco talk radio station pre-empted three hours of programming on Friday in response to a campaign by bloggers who have recorded extreme comments by several hosts and passed on digital copies to advertisers.
 The lead blogger, who uses the name Spocko, said that he and other bloggers had contacted more than 30 advertisers on KSFO-AM to inform them of comments made on the air and to ask them to pull their ads.
The comments were also posted on Spocko's Web site, spockosbrain.com. In response, ABC Radio Networks, which owns KSFO and which in turn is owned by the Walt Disney Company, sent letters to the site's service provider, demanding the clips be taken down from its servers. The provider complied, raising the issue of what constitutes fair use of copyrighted material by a critic. 
 In an unusual cap to a simmering controversy, four talk radio hosts at KSFO-AM themselves played the clips on Friday, which had, in some cases, drawn national attention for language considered racially insensitive, religiously intolerant or containing violent imagery. The broadcast contained the occasional carefully measured apology for language that ''could have been put more elegantly,'' as one host, Melanie Morgan, described her comment -- ''We've got a bull's eye painted on her big wide laughing eyes'' -- about Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, who is from San Francisco. ''But Ms. Morgan added that her words were obviously a political metaphor that had to be distorted by critics to appear violent. 
 Ms. Morgan said that the on-air talent had ''been reissued guidelines from the company about violent rhetoric and we've reviewed those rules and we don't believe that we have crossed any single line.'' But the hosts were uniformly defiant against the bloggers, who were called ''crackpots with keyboards'' and accused of using ''guerrilla tactics.'' 
 Spocko had recorded and disseminated other clips from the station in an effort to alarm advertisers. In one, Brian Sussman, an evening host on KSFO, described Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, as a ''halfrican,'' because he has one African parent and one white parent. In another, from 2005, he challenged a caller who said he was not a Muslim to prove it by repeating back an insult to Allah. Mr. Sussman apologized for both comments during Friday's three-hour show.
 In an interview, Spocko, who described himself as being in his ''late 40s and a communications professional,'' said he was appalled by what he heard on KSFO. Among the advertisers Spocko contacted, and who have been reported in The San Francisco Chronicle to have stopped advertising at KSFO were Bank of America, MasterCard and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation. During the Friday show, one of the hosts, Lee Rodgers, read an e-mail message asking if the station had lost any sponsors so the listener could, in turn, boycott the former sponsors. Ms. Morgan said ''one advertiser -- exactly one'' had left the station. 
 When reached at his office, KSFO-AM's program director, Ken Berry, said he felt ''the three-hour broadcast best spoke for us'' and referred other questions to ABC. An ABC spokeswoman had no comment.
 Spocko's campaign became more widely followed when his blog was taken down by his Internet service provider, 1&1 Internet, of Chesterbrook, Pa., after ABC lawyers sent the company a cease and desist letter on Dec. 22. 
 1&1 says ''the decision was made to remove the copyrighted material from our servers until the matter is resolved, whether by the parties involved or the judicial system.''
 Spocko has since switched to a different Web hosting company. His lawyer, Matt Zimmerman of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights group based in San Francisco, says that 1&1 acted too quickly in response to the ABC letter, which he described as saber-rattling rather than a valid notice under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, an updating of copyright laws from 1998. 
 ''They have a choice when they get these vague threats,'' said Mr. Zimmerman, who argued that Spocko's clips constituted fair use. ''They can instantly shut it down'' or wait until formally notified of copyright infringement as detailed in the act. 
 A spokesman for 1&1, Neil Simpkins, said the company was acting on the advice of its lawyers and noted that the material ''is being distributed all over the Internet.'' He said that to his knowledge the company had never before taken down a site because of copyright concerns.
 Rebecca Jeschke, a spokeswoman for the the foundation, said ABC's actions would have a chilling effect on online debate.
 Most of the callers were sympathetic during Friday's broadcast, but one blogger who has supported Spocko's cause, Mike Stark, was encouraged to call in. The extended dialogue perhaps can best be summarized by one exchange. 
 Mr. Stark: ''You've spoken of the number of apologies you have tried to make. How many apologies does a professional get before they realize they are an incompetent and move on to another line of work?'' 
 KSFO's Lee Rodgers: ''Well I haven't apologized for anything and I am not going to start with you. How the hell do you like that, creep?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, KSFO-AM's Lee Rodgers and left, Melanie Morgan, talk show hosts accused by bloggers of making insensitive remarks. (Photo by Kim Komenich/The San Francisco Chronicle)
 (Photo by Carlos Avila Gonzales/The San Francisco Chronicle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%) Radio; Computers and the Internet; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Advertising and Marketing; Recordings and Downloads (Audio)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KSFO-AM (Radio Station); Abc Radio

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Noam Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



314 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: A Newsroom Fight Spills Into the Streets of a Once-Peaceful Town 

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
A nasty fight between the news staff and the owner of a local paper here has created some new casualties: readers. 
 Take, for example, Eric Zahm, a hairdresser who hung a sign in his window taking Wendy P. McCaw, owner and co-publisher of The Santa Barbara News-Press, to task for not recognizing a vote to unionize her news staff.
Within days, Mr. Zahm got a letter from a lawyer for Mrs. McCaw, warning him that the sign -- which read, ''McCaw Obey the Law'' -- could get him sued for defamation. 
 ''It freaked me out a little bit,'' Mr. Zahm said. 
 After consulting a lawyer, he took the bright orange sign down from the window and instead hung it on the ceiling above the sinks, where clients can now see it while getting their hair washed. As for the cease-and-desist letter, Mr. Zahm enlarged it, laminated it and hung it in his window. 
 Since a full-blown war erupted last July between Mrs. McCaw, a local billionaire, and the staff of her newsroom over protests that she was meddling in news decisions, the hostilities have only spread in this upscale and usually peaceable seaside town. 
 In September, reporters for The News-Press voted to be represented by a union, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, but Mrs. McCaw rejected the result.
 Circulation has fallen by 5 percent in the last six months, according to the paper. Merchants and residents have taken sides -- mostly against Mrs. McCaw. City elders have made many offers to meet with Mrs. McCaw to discuss the turmoil at the paper, amid concerns that she has damaged its credibility, but she has rejected the overtures.
 The newsroom's union vote was the subject of a hearing of the National Labor Relations Board last week to consider management's claims that the vote was tainted by union intimidation. (A ruling is expected by the end of the month). And by late last week, several angry residents had embarked on a petition drive to get Mrs. McCaw to sell the paper.
 In response, she has started a flurry of legal actions against figures large and small, making herself into the local bogeyman whose every move seems to lend more fodder to anti-McCaw blogs, while doing little to steer the paper into calmer waters. 
 Lawyers for Mrs. McCaw have sent cease-and-desist letters to at least a half-dozen shop owners who posted the ''Obey the Law'' sign. They have also started legal action against the paper's former editor, Jerry Roberts; a local alternative weekly, The Independent, which Mrs. McCaw said obtained copies of two unpublished News-Press articles; and Susan Paterno, a reporter who wrote an article about the conflict in The American Journalism Review. 
 Meanwhile, the top editing job has remained vacant since the departure of Mr. Roberts along with five other top editors and a columnist who resigned in sympathy with him last July. Some 30 members of the newsroom have left or been fired from the paper, leaving a staff of about 40. And last month Mrs. McCaw fired the chief financial officer, Randy Alcorn, and the company's controller resigned the next week. They too have not been replaced. 
 The situation ''has created a lot of havoc,'' Mr. Alcorn told Barney Brantingham, a 46-year veteran of The News-Press who resigned in July and now writes a column for The Independent. ''She had made it worse and worse. The whole place was like a morgue.''
 After those comments were published in Mr. Brantingham's column, Mr. Alcorn found a cease-and-desist letter from Mrs. McCaw's lawyer nailed to his front door. 
 Mrs. McCaw, who is co-publisher of the paper with her fiance, Arthur Von Wiesenberger, declined to comment. Scott Steepleton, the associate editor who is now running the newsroom, did not return calls seeking comment. 
 But David Millstein, the paper's general counsel, acknowledged that Mrs. McCaw, who bought the paper from The New York Times Company in 2000, was feeling victimized by the negative things being written and said about her. And he observed that journalists writing about other journalists meant that a bias against his client was built into much of the coverage. 
 ''Why do we feel ganged up on? A newspaper's credibility is its stock in trade,'' he said in an interview after last week's hearing over management's objections to the union vote. ''To have people we've knocked in editorials, former employees and the Teamsters knocking us -- all of whom have an ax to grind -- is difficult for any business to tolerate.'' 
 Mr. Millstein said the legal actions were merely a way for Mrs. McCaw to demonstrate her belief that she had the right to express her views through the newspaper, and to defend herself from critics. 
 When asked why Mrs. McCaw has consistently chosen legal action when she has felt wronged, rather than engaging in dialogue with readers or her news staff, he said, ''A cease-and-desist letter is a form of dialogue.'' 
 The chasm between Mrs. McCaw's world view and that of a great many others in Santa Barbara has caused distress that is rippling through the community. To visit Santa Barbara six months after the first News-Press crisis is to observe the fracturing of a community, a process that has been heartbreaking for many. 
 A legal fund has been started by local lawyers to provide help for those in Mrs. McCaw's legal cross-hairs, and another loan fund has been started to help idled News-Press journalists through financial straits. Many of them remain unemployed.
 ''Lives were really turned upside down, interrupted,'' said Don Murphy, the 60-year-old former managing editor who resigned in July. He found a job at the daily paper in northern San Louis Obispo, where he lives half the week, while his wife remains in Santa Barbara. 
 ''I'm still looking'' for work, said Jane Hulse, also 60, the former city editor who also resigned in July. ''Financially I'm not destitute, but there's a lot of uncertainty. We're sweating.'' 
 Mr. Roberts, who said he resigned because he objected to Mrs. McCaw's making editorial decisions, was hit with a $500,000 legal suit. He recently filed a countersuit for $10 million in damages. 
 Some misfortunes, however, cannot be addressed with money. In a personal account published last week in The Independent, Mr. Roberts revealed that he had had emergency surgery over Thanksgiving to remove an enlarged spleen, leading to a diagnosis of cancer. He said he was living through a ''Kafkaesque'' experience. 
 ''I'm trying to make sense of the blur of it all, as my wife and kids and I try to get our lives back on track -- physically, emotionally and economically -- after the wreckage of last year,'' he wrote. 
 The News-Press itself, once a consistent winner of regional journalism awards (including last year, from the California Newspaper Publishers Association, for general excellence) seems in a state of suspended animation. Tension remains high between reporters, who voted 33-6 for the union, and managers. And the coverage of last week's hearings omitted some of the most dramatic moments in the courtroom, as when Judge William L. Schmidt scolded a News-Press lawyer, Sandra McCandless, for putting on a shoddy case. At one point the judge raised his voice in frustration over her attempt to link an anonymous threat against management to the union. 
 ''I am stunned,'' the judge said. ''This is a routine, ordinary, everyday N.L.R.B. election campaign. This is what happens in these things. People express their opinions. This is the American story.''
 Mr. Millstein said there was no chance that Mrs. McCaw would sell the paper, despite a public offer from a local textbook publisher, Sara Miller McCune, at a November dinner where she was accepting a humanitarian award from the paper. 
 Mr. Millstein said that Mrs. McCaw was determined to build The News-Press into a ''trophy newspaper. Not by winning awards,'' he said, dismissing a series about Hispanic immigrants that ran under Mr. Roberts' leadership. ''But by being an independent voice that does a great job covering this community, which she cares a lot about.'' 
 Mr. Zahm, in the meantime, is waiting for the labor board's ruling to come through. ''I expect her to lose, and when she does, I'm putting the sign back in the window,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about a dispute between Wendy P. McCaw, the owner of The Santa Barbara News-Press in California and the newsroom staff misspelled the name of the city where Don Murphy, the former manager editor of the paper, has taken a job. It is San Luis Obispo, not San Louis Obispo. The credit for a picture of Ms. McCaw misstated the given name of the photographer. He is Paul Wellman, not Paula.
An article in Business Day on Jan. 15 about a dispute between Wendy P. McCaw, the owner of The Santa Barbara News-Press in California, and the newsroom staff misstated the job title of a former editor at the paper who commented on the controversy. (The error was repeated in a correction in this space on Jan 18.) Don Murphy was the deputy managing editor, not the managing editor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wendy P. McCaw, left, the owner of The Santa Barbara News-Press, and Melinda Burns, a reporter who was fired from the paper. (Photos by Left, Paula Wellman/Santa Barbara Independent
right, Kevin McKiernan for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Eric Zahm, a local hairdresser, moved a sign in his window protesting the actions of the owner of The News-Press after he received a cease-and-desist order from her. (Photo by Kevin McKiernan for The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); PETITIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING TRADE (73%); PAPER WHOLESALERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Newspapers; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (82%) Santa Barbara News-Press; International Brotherhood of Teamsters

PERSON: Wendy P Mccaw; Sharon Waxman

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Santa Barbara (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



315 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: A Pianist With a Soft Touch, Except When It Becomes Grand

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
The young pianist Gerald Clayton doesn't play too long or too loud, except by precise strategy. He uses swing rhythm as a foursquare entity, rather than warping it or battling against it; he's averse to dissonance except as tiny, unobtrusive details in a powerful euphony. He's unusually presentable. 
 Mr. Clayton, 22, made a quick visit to New York over the weekend, playing Saturday night at the Jazz Gallery, with David Wong on bass and Pete Van Ostrand on drums. It was a secure set, mixing originals and standards and bringing in the trumpeter Roy Hargrove in its last third. As a measure of the consensus around Mr. Clayton, the house was packed even though he hasn't made his own record.
The son of the jazz bassist John Clayton and lately a presence on Diana Krall's records, Mr. Clayton comes from Los Angeles, where he studied at the University of Southern California. When he inevitably moves to New York, we'll be hearing more about him. This isn't a blind guess; there just aren't a lot of pianists who have so much organized at such a young age. His style synthesizes economy, variety and harmonic ideas from players like Cedar Walton and Kenny Barron, as well as some flourishes and grandstanding energy from Oscar Peterson and Art Tatum. It's also an armored style, with a decent amount of glibness and facile blues language; one that, for whatever reason, regards dissonance, abruptness and space as undesirable options. 
 Leaning toward the old school, Mr. Clayton may not have that undefinable elasticity, that ability to let go at the more abstract, higher level that a lot of serious pianists in his generation are developing. What he does have is control over technique and the arc of a performance, and those can be devastating strengths.
 He didn't get the most of Billy Strayhorn's ''Isfahan,'' which he fussed over too much, burying a beautiful chord progression under piles of grace notes and decorous phrases. But he can swing at very fast tempos, and he can play quietly in a slow ballad and, even better, at medium tempo. 
 He did this in an original piece called ''Two Heads, One Pillow.'' It began cool and wary, with a bass ostinato echoed in the piano's bass clef; after the theme, Mr. Clayton began his solo with hard, argumentative phrases, but his left hand, inside the piano, damped the strings, muffling the notes. By the time the piece ended, it had gone through three or four major dynamic surges, one of them using the momentum of Mr. Hargrove's solo.
 And when Mr. Clayton regained control in the last chorus, swinging quietly again, there was a sense that he was on to something. Listeners looked satisfied, as if they'd solved a puzzle or been let in on a secret.

The Gerald Clayton Trio will return to the Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, SoHo, on March 24.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The pianist Gerald Clayton, in a set mixing originals and standards at the Jazz Gallery on Saturday. (Photo by Jennifer Taylor for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%) Music; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%) Clayton, Gerald, Trio (Music Group)

PERSON: Ben Ratliff

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



316 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Into Newark's Ex-Mayor Turns to Sales of City Land 

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Federal agents investigating the financial dealings of former Mayor Sharpe James of Newark are reviewing land transactions in which a few of his top advisers and political allies may have benefited from the sale of city property at prices far below market rates, according to court documents and lawyers involved in the case.
 In recent weeks, investigators have served subpoenas on City Hall requesting thousands of pages of personnel records and other documents regarding officials who supervised municipal land deals during the final years of the James administration. Some of the officials may have profited from the deals. 
Among the transactions being examined are the sale last May of 12 vacant city lots at the below-market price of $4 per square foot to Manuel Rosa, a real estate developer who has been a longtime supporter of Mr. James and employs one of his sons.
 Investigators are also reviewing a series of transactions involving Karen Hilliard-Johnson, a director in the city's Department of Economic and Housing Development. Property records show that in 2000, Ms. Hilliard-Johnson bought a home for $200,000 -- when similar homes were selling for well over $300,000 -- from a developer who later purchased dozens of low-cost city lots from the department where she worked.
 And an article published yesterday in The Star-Ledger of Newark reported that investigators were examining the sale of nine city-owned parcels to Tamika Riley, a public relations consultant who occasionally traveled with Mr. James. She bought the properties for $46,000 and later resold them for $700,000.
 Mr. James has been the subject of an inquiry since last summer, when the United States attorney's office began investigating whether tens of thousands of dollars in travel expenses he charged to two city credit cards during his final months in office were for legitimate city business. 
 Mr. James, who is still a state senator and the director of the Urban Issues Institute at Essex County College, did not return calls requesting comment, but his lawyer said in an interview last week that both the credit card bills and the land sales were appropriate because they contributed to Mr. James's efforts to spur redevelopment.
 ''Anything that was done was done to benefit the city,'' said the lawyer, Raymond M. Brown.
 Subpoenas for the personnel records of Ms. Hilliard-Johnson and other city development employees have been served on City Hall. Lawyers involved in the case, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter was going before a grand jury, said the city had turned over records of property transactions involving Ms. Hilliard-Johnson, Ms. Riley, Mr. Rosa and others.
 Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for the United States attorney, Christopher J. Christie, declined to discuss the investigation, some aspects of which have been reported in The Star-Ledger. 
 Mayor Cory A. Booker, who succeeded Mr. James in July, also declined to comment, according to his director of communications, Desiree Peterkin Bell.
 During last year's mayoral campaign, Mr. Booker made a major issue out of the cut-rate sale of city land, often at $4 per square foot at a time when private appraisers said it was worth more than $25. Mr. Booker blasted the James administration for permitting the sales, calling them an improper giveaway of city resources to people with political connections. His lawyers also went to court and won an injunction blocking dozens of sales.
 One of the deals that was halted involved three parcels that Ms. Riley planned to buy, according to lawyers familiar with the case. 
 Between 2001 and 2005, Ms. Riley's company, TRI, bought an assortment of city properties, some for less than $2 a square foot, according to city land records. The most recent sales, in 2005, involved two city properties that Ms. Riley bought for $12,000 and resold within a year for a total of $250,000.
 Neither Ms. Riley nor her lawyer, Francis Cutruzzula, could be reached yesterday for comment. 
 The transaction involving Ms. Hilliard-Johnson relates to her $200,000 purchase of a four-bedroom home in Newark in 2002. The home was built and sold by a developer on land it bought from the city in 2001 for $1 per square foot, at a time when Ms. Hilliard-Johnson worked in the development department. In subsequent years, the company received a variety of project approvals and low-cost land deals from the city.
 Contacted last week at her office in City Hall, Ms. Hilliard-Johnson said she had done nothing improper. She referred questions to her lawyer, Randy Davenport, who did not return repeated calls seeking comment. 
 Mr. Rosa's company, Lilac Development, has been a major financial supporter of Mr. James. The judge who issued the injunction blocking some of the James administration's land sales noted that Mr. Rosa and his employees had given $15,000 in contributions to Mr. James early last year, when the company was trying to buy more than an acre of city land at a discount price. On May 24, Mr. Rosa bought just under an acre of city property for $4 a square foot, according to land records.
 Mr. Rosa did not return repeated calls to his office last week requesting comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ETHICS (61%) Ethics; Mayors; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; Sharpe (Sen) James; Manuel Rosa; Karen Hilliard-Johnson; Tamika Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



317 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: Once at Cotillions, Now Reshaping the Cityscape 

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
When Amanda M. Burden's stepfather, William S. Paley, built the vest-pocket park that bears his name on East 53rd Street, he saw to it that the four wide stone steps from the street, each only five inches high, stood as an invitation to enter.
 Those steps ''are just perfect,'' Ms. Burden recently recalled her mentor, the urban scholar William H. Whyte, telling her. ''It makes you want to skip into that park.''
It is that kind of meticulous focus on the details that Ms. Burden inherited from Mr. Paley, the tycoon who built CBS, and is now using to profound effect in subtly reshaping New York through her role as city planning commissioner.
 Whether walking up and down 368 blocks in Jamaica, Queens, to see which streets can accommodate 12-story buildings, or grabbing a tape measure from her desk to set the dimensions of seating in public plazas across the city, Ms. Burden is leaving an indelible legacy of how all five boroughs will look and feel for decades to come. 
 Ms. Burden, who swirled from Kennedy-era cotillions to Halston's disco pad to the upper echelons of government, has used her power over land-use approvals to impose her own aesthetic sensibility on development projects. 
 Her approach emphasizes open space, continuous shop fronts, and the inclusion of trees and other elements that foster lively street life. It is visible, for example, in the small sidewalk cafes that are now permitted in much of Manhattan and in the wide ledges encouraging sitting that surround General Motors Plaza at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. 
 But she has engendered the hostility of many developers and others tied to the city's powerful real estate industry, who bristle at what they see as her micromanagement of the appearance and even the shape of their buildings, and feel pressured to use celebrity architects like Frank Gehry and Norman Foster for major projects. It is a testament to her influence that none of them would speak for the record, but interviews with nearly a dozen people who work in or with the real estate industry show that her approach is not always welcome.
 Since her appointment in 2002 by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Ms. Burden has played a powerful behind-the-scenes role in shaping plans at ground zero, in limiting the size of the Atlantic Yards development near Downtown Brooklyn, and in helping push through the High Line project, which will transform a disused rail bed into a linear park linking the West Village to the Far West Side.
 She has overseen the biggest comprehensive planning effort since the citywide rezoning of 1961, encompassing nearly 4,500 blocks thus far, including a huge swath along the Williamsburg and Greenpoint waterfronts in Brooklyn, with at least 2,300 blocks more in the pipeline.
 She has earned many admirers in planning circles, along with detractors, and few would disagree that she is leaving her imprint on New York. 
 ''She cares about each building and its details in a way that no other planning director has that I can remember, and I go back a long way,'' said Jerold S. Kayden, director of the master's program in urban planning at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. ''She's wise enough to recognize that what I would call small details or granular moves can either enhance or destroy a city. In a funny way she's the curator of a living, breathing city.''
 If New York is known among urban planners as a city that continually reshapes itself to suit the latest mercantile whims, Ms. Burden has shifted at least part of the focus to the people who live and work there.
 There is a strong economic-development component to Ms. Burden's focus on design -- ''I think that it makes the city young and exciting to see aggressive and innovative architecture,'' she said, naming Rem Koolhaas, Zaha Hadid and Thom Mayne as among her favorites. But her decisions are often guided by a more emotional sensibility and a belief that a city's health can be measured by the vibrancy of its street life.
 ''Everything comes down to how it's going to feel,'' she said. ''There isn't very innovative architecture at Battery Park City,'' whose design she oversaw as the lead planner. ''But people like it because it feels good.''
 At a meeting at her office recently to look over plans for new parks along the East River in Manhattan, she asked that some of the seating be arranged to allow for social interaction. And in a pending rezoning of 125th Street, because banks often close in the afternoon and deaden the stretches of street they occupy, she ordered that they be limited to a small vestibule for A.T.M.'s on the ground floor. The bulk of bank operations would instead be upstairs. 
 Although Ms. Burden, 62, clearly relishes her job, one she said she coveted for decades, her path to it was not entirely straightforward. She was born to the elite: a descendant of John Jay, the first chief justice of the United States; her father, Stanley Mortimer, was an heir to the Standard Oil fortune, and her mother, Barbara Paley, known as Babe, was one of Truman Capote's exalted swans. Her most recent detailed financial disclosure forms, filed in 2005, put her net worth at more than $45 million, with the bulk of it reserved in trust for her children. 
 After an upbringing filled with society parties and cotillions, she married Carter Burden, a wealthy member of the Vanderbilt clan who was an aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy and later became a city councilman. 
 Living at the Dakota on Central Park West, on the same floor as Jason Robards and Lauren Bacall, the couple had two children while Ms. Burden worked as a public school teacher in Harlem, but they divorced in 1972. Picking up her education again, Ms. Burden studied environmental science at Sarah Lawrence and was able to apply the quantitative analysis skills she learned after meeting Mr. Whyte, who hired her to study how New Yorkers used public spaces. That led to an epiphany that ''this was how I could do public service, by shaping the city, by creating great public spaces,'' she said.
 She worked for the New York State Urban Development Corporation under Gov. Hugh L. Carey, then oversaw the planning of Battery Park City until her appointment to the City Planning Commission in 1990. Having moved to the Upper East Side, she got to know Mr. Bloomberg a bit, running into him near their 79th Street homes, and through her friendship with his aide Patricia E. Harris, now a deputy mayor. 
 She made a splash after being appointed planning commissioner by moving forward on huge rezoning efforts and insisting on more finely drawn designs for major projects.
 But many developers, who, associates say, will not speak publicly for fear of jeopardizing their projects, complain that she is imperious and arbitrary, using her seat in government to dictate the angles at which their buildings sit in the skyline or to mandate the use of overpriced architects. Even some of her fans describe her as willful and single-minded, with her patrician bearing and impeccable manners obscuring what Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, called a ''velvet hammer.''
 In many areas that now bear her stamp, community advocates have welcomed Ms. Burden's efforts. But there is still criticism that the administration has little interest in genuine community planning and that Ms. Burden focuses too intently on the microfibers of a plan and ignores larger threads in the urban fabric like transportation, schools or sewer capacity. 
 ''She comes across as the Good Witch of the North: she's patient, she's understanding, she's attractive, she appears to listen,'' said Peter Gillespie, executive director of Neighbors Allied for Good Growth, a community advocacy group in north Brooklyn. 
 ''But if you look at the results of her waving the magic wand of this Greenpoint-Williamsburg rezoning, where residents have been displaced, viable manufacturing jobs have been lost'' and the neighborhood overrun with construction projects, he continued, ''she's more like the Wicked Witch of the West.''
 Ms. Burden acknowledges that zoning changes can create anxiety and dissatisfaction within communities, but defends the administration's approach of maximizing growth on wide boulevards and near transportation hubs while preserving little-village character elsewhere. ''It's a citywide approach, but it's never broad-brush,'' she said, adding that she works to ''overlay community perspective with citywide need.''
 She is also unapologetic toward her critics in the real estate industry, rejecting outright the notion that high-end design costs too much and saying that this administration has done more than any other to encourage growth.
 In addition, planning experts and her supporters in the administration say, her focus on the small details adds up to a profound effect.
 ''The physical environment is absolutely essential and creates the kind of communities that make people want to invest in those communities,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''Some people disagree with the judgments, and that's understandable, but I don't think that you can object to having high standards.''
 Ms. Burden's work has allowed her to mostly escape the tag of socialite, although her name has remained a boldface staple of the society pages, especially through her associations with high-profile men including her second husband, Steve Ross of Time Warner, and her former companion, the talk show host Charlie Rose. 
 ''Amanda has been surrounded by high energy, talented people all her life and she understands how to be effective,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban planning at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, who is close to the administration. ''There's very few people who combine her looks and brains and know-how in the same package.'' 
 But there is also her thoroughness, boosters say, a trait that has become a hallmark of her current role, where she said she requires that all the commissioners visit the entire site of any rezoning before voting on it. 
 As a result, weekends often find her jumping into her car to visit the communities where the commission is proposing changes. 
 ''That's the hardest thing about the job is learning every block,'' she said. ''Every one of those 65 rezonings, every one, I know them all. And I don't think you should be allowed to propose reshaping a community unless you know it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amanda M. Burden, city planning commissioner, with James P. Molinaro, the Staten Island borough president, and Mayor Bloomberg. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Amanda M. Burden has been city planning commissioner since 2002. ''Everything comes down to how it's going to feel,'' she said. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); ZONING (74%); STEPPARENTS (73%) Area Planning and Renewal; Land Use Policies; Trees and Shrubs; Real Estate; Architecture; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: City Planning Department (NYC)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) Diane Cardwell; Amanda M (Comr) Burden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



318 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Teams Would Swell Under Bush's New Iraq Plan

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
As part of its latest plan to stabilize Iraq, the United States intends to more than double the number of regional reconstruction teams and to add nearly 400 specialists for existing and new teams, in fields from politics and the rule of law to agribusiness and veterinary care, according to an official outline of the plan.
 The document calls for the measures to be taken swiftly, in three phases, with waves of new teams and personnel expected to be put in place in March, June and September. The teams are to carry out rebuilding and governance projects from small offices all over Iraq. 
 The document, provided to The New York Times by a critic of the plan, lays out what an American official familiar with its contents calls simply ''the playbook,'' giving detailed estimates of the costs to be incurred by various teams as a result of the changes. About $250,000, for example, is set aside for new office furnishings for a team in the southern city of Basra, which is supposed to receive 25 additional specialists.
 While the plan does call for the creation of about a dozen new reconstruction teams around Iraq, most of the new personnel will be added to existing teams, the plan indicates. While 400 may sound like a small number compared with the plan to increase the number of troops by more than 20,000, the existing 10 reconstruction teams have, at most, a total of about 100 civilian specialists, and recruiting that many has been difficult, officials say. 
 Whether it is wise to increase the staffing of the teams by a factor of five is likely to be questioned by existing team members, the American official said. 
 That is because extremely restrictive security regulations have made it difficult for the specialists already on the provincial reconstruction teams, often called P.R.T.'s, to leave their bases and work with Iraqis, the official said, adding that the cumbersome rules must be followed even in relatively safe areas in the northern and central parts of Iraq. ''Across the board they have to follow the same security rules,'' the official said. ''So the P.R.T.'s that could be successful still can't get out in the field.''
 In addition, because oversight agencies have previously reported that the existing teams have had trouble equipping themselves with items as essential as pencils and other office supplies, a fresh wave of officials could find it more difficult than expected to begin their work for reasons other than security.
 The teams also have been criticized for relying heavily on uniformed personnel whose skills are poorly matched with specialized needs in the field. That concern has repeatedly come up because the State Department has had great difficulty persuading civilian officials to accept jobs at the dangerous, isolated and uncomfortable bases in the Iraqi provinces.
 The document does not explain how so many additional government officials with the specialized skills called for will be recruited when the State Department has found it so difficult to bring a much smaller number to Iraq in the past.
 United States officials have previously disclosed elements of the plans outlined in the document, which is dated Jan. 14. Among those elements are the request for $414 million in additional State Department financing for 2007 and the likely need to search for officials with a range of technical specialties to accept the jobs.
 But the new document makes clear that detailed plans have progressed far beyond those numbers. There are indications that the United States plans to add six teams in Baghdad, apparently scattered around the city, and three in western Anbar Province. Each has one team now.
 Together, Anbar and Baghdad account for more than 140 of the projected additional specialists. They are to include political advisers, economics experts, medical personnel and specialists in city management, engineering and business. 
 The other new personnel are to be scattered around the country; for instance, the little office in Diyala Province, now staffed with no more than a handful of Americans, would receive 33 more. For perspective, an entire American Embassy in a small country might have fewer American officials than the number planned for Diyala Province. 
 A summary at the beginning of the document indicates that beyond their purely civil duties, the teams will also be expected to support the counterinsurgency efforts by the United States military. There is no description of how that support would be carried out.
 Nonmilitary duties relegated to the teams, according to the document, would be to promote moderate political groups and to further reconciliation in Iraqi society. 
 They would also be asked to help by ''fostering economic development'' and ''building capacity'' at the provincial level. ''Capacity'' is a bureaucratic term meaning skill in technical, managerial and other areas.
 Some of the projected costs may raise eyebrows. Around the country, for example, the United States plans to spend more than $2 million in office furnishings alone as part of the plan. More than $7 million is budgeted for information technology, apparently including computers. Some of that money may be used to support existing team members.
 The new plans could become a windfall for more than computer and furniture companies. 
 The document's last page gives a hint of the likely financing requests in support of the teams in fiscal year 2008, suggesting that protection alone may require $400 million.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Bigger Footprint''A planned addition of personnel would increase the number of provisional reconstruction team members from approximately 100 now to about 500.Map of Iraq highlighting number of provisional reconstruction teams.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (72%); OFFICE DESIGN (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%) United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Agribusiness; Veterinary Medicine

PERSON: James Glanz; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



319 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Where Snow Is All That Glitters, Worry Over Growth's Effect

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Dan Frosch contributed reporting from Denver.

DATELINE: DILLON, Colo., Jan. 9 

 BODY:
Chuck Shirk is the kind of loyal skier Arapahoe Basin Ski Area is famous for. Mr. Shirk hates almost everything about modern ski resorts -- fancy stores, snooty restaurants, expensive real estate. A-Basin, as Arapahoe is called by just about everybody, is unencumbered by such trappings, he said.
 ''You've got everything you need here -- you've got a bathroom and you've got lifts,'' Mr. Shirk, 53, said as he packed his car to drive back to his home near Denver.
But now A-Basin, about 70 miles west of Denver, is moving toward the biggest expansion in its 60-year history, with a sixth chairlift, a new restaurant and a near doubling in acreage, all approved last month by the federal Forest Service. And the old raw-boned culture of the place that people like Mr. Shirk love has become part of the debate. 
 There is no question that skiing and snowboarding here are about as basic as it gets: a slippery mountain, a way to get to the top, and beer and chili at the bottom in a lodge that has barely changed since the mid-1960s, when the owners bought it cheap, as military surplus. The A-frame building, trucked in and reassembled piece by piece, was funky looking even then, having been used to test missile engines, and it has become an A-Basin symbol in the decades since. 
 ''We're a ski area, not a resort,'' said Rocky White, 53, an instructor who sat with friends in a lawn chair on the edge of the parking lot on a recent sunny afternoon. A barbecue had been set up, with steaks on the grill. Dogs gnawed bones as skiers and snowboarders whooshed toward the nearby chairlift.
 ''You find real people here,'' Mr. White said, ''not people with their noses up in the clouds.''
 Some skiers and snowboarders say that the expansion will be the beginning of the end of the A-Basin's ''pull up a chair and sit a spell'' feel, and that the place will eventually become a real resort. Others say that change is inevitable, and that if it helps a place they love stay economically viable, then expansion it is. Discussion groups on Web sites like Telemarktips.com, which is devoted to backcountry skiing, obsess over what the changes may bring.
 Environmental issues shape part of that debate; more traffic into the mountains means more trees cut down to make trails. But an equally important element is the borderland between the groomed-trail experience and the wilder backcountry terrain that exists beyond the ski area's boundaries. 
 The expansion will put A-Basin skiers into an area called the Montezuma Bowl that is now used only by backcountry skiers who go there independently. Taking Montezuma into the mainstream -- taming it, some skiers say -- is exactly what many people fear for A-Basin itself. 
 ''Some places should be set aside as backcountry,'' said Sena Hitt-Laustsen, a research assistant at the University of Colorado who was sipping a beer with her boyfriend in the lodge. ''I'm opposed to the expansion.''
 Other people say it is about emotion and character.
 ''We're all concerned about the place losing its feel,'' said Eric Mink, an environmental chemist and an A-Basin regular who was shopping at an outdoor-equipment store in Denver on a recent afternoon. 
 ''In the past, everything has been so chill up there, so stress-free,'' Mr. Mink, 28, said. ''But what if it turns into Durango or Vail? It's already too crowded to ski on the weekends.''
 A-Basin's general manager and chief operating officer, Alan Henceroth, who started his ski industry career as a ski bum and busboy 24 years ago at a resort down the road, said he agreed that expanding A-Basin without destroying its distinctiveness was a fine line to walk. 
 But growth is also crucial to survival, Mr. Henceroth said. He said he hoped that the expansion, which will increase the amount of intermediate-level terrain, would attract more women, in particular, who in the past might have been turned off by A-Basin's austere reputation. It has some of the highest ski slopes in North America, over 13,000 feet, and some of the steepest. About 60 percent of the visitors are men, Mr. Henceroth said.
 ''Whenever you have something that people like and you propose change, it's human nature to resist,'' he said. ''My biggest objective is to preserve what people feel about this place.''
 One thing that set A-Basin apart from other resorts when it was being developed was its land. Places like Aspen and Vail in Colorado, as well as Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Park City, Utah, all had ample privately owned property at the bases of their ski lifts to allow for the construction of stores, condominium complexes, bars and restaurants. A-Basin, tucked into a tight mountain valley on a two-lane road with Forest Service land reaching right up to the lodge, was hemmed in.
 ''There was no developable land to speak of,'' said Max Dercum, who co-founded A-Basin in 1946, when all that existed was a towrope powered by a Ford V8 engine to pull skiers up the mountain.
 But Mr. Dercum, 94, who skied into his 90s and was a racer on the senior circuit into his late 80s, said in a telephone interview that what did not happen here became important to the rest of the Colorado ski industry, too.
 In the early 1960s, he said, a group of investors came to A-Basin and wanted to build a big hotel on private land high on the ski slope. But the plan fell through, Mr. Dercum said, partly because of the difficulty of the terrain and the altitude, and the group moved on -- to Vail, which was just getting started. The Swiss-style lodge they had envisioned for A-Basin became one of Vail's first buildings, and the group became Vail pioneers.
 Now the imprint that Vail helped create, many skiers say, is everywhere, and places like A-Basin are fading fast.
 Mr. Shirk, the A-basin devotee, said that some time back he drove his motorcycle to western Colorado, to the resort town of Telluride, looking for the ski-town simplicity he had heard was still alive. He turned around quickly and came right back.
 ''It was glitz like Aspen and everybody else,'' he said. ''I stopped at a place and said, 'Where do you recommend for lunch?' And they said, 'Well, do you want French? Do you want sushi?' I was like, nah.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ron Busby, of Denver, checked steaks on the grill at the foot of the ski area. Barbecue picnics are a common activity on the mountain.
 Skiers hitch a ride at Arapahoe Basin Ski Area, where some are concerned how a coming expansion may affect the destination's no-frills culture. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Map of Colorado highlighting Dillon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); APPROVALS (54%) Skiing; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Arapahoe Basin (Colo); Dillon (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



320 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Asks YouTube: Friend or Foe?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
Did you miss Eminem's hit movie ''8 Mile''? You're in luck: Many of its rap battles and other major scenes are available for viewing on YouTube, the video-sharing Web site owned by Google. Indeed, until recently, the entire film was there, broken up into 12 nine-minute chunks to get around YouTube's ban on longer clips.
 An 18-year-old YouTube user calling himself Yosickoyo posted the movie six months ago. He declined to give his real name, but said in an e-mail message that he had made the film available as a favor to others who had shared movies. ''I just want to thank them by uploading a movie that I have,'' he wrote.
NBC Universal, whose Universal Pictures distributed ''8 Mile'' in 2002, did not appreciate the gesture. The company asked YouTube to take down the clips after it learned of them from a reporter. It was not the first time. NBC Universal has three employees who troll the site every day looking for studio-owned material, and they send more than 1,000 such requests a month to YouTube. 
 ''There is only so much we can do,'' said Rick Cotton, NBC Universal's general counsel, who estimated that more than half the videos on YouTube featuring NBC Universal's television shows and films were unauthorized. As fast as a clip is taken down, he said, YouTube users ''can always put up another.''
 As YouTube, with the backing of Google, becomes a powerful force in the media world, Hollywood studios and other entertainment companies are trying to figure out if it is friend or foe. After all, YouTube distributes unauthorized clips of the movies that the studios spend an average of $96 million to make. But it can also help them build tremendous buzz, and that is driving Hollywood to try to work with it instead of against it.
 Hoping to avoid some of the problems in the music industry that arose from illegal downloading of songs, all of the major studios -- including NBC Universal, Warner Brothers Entertainment, which is owned by Time Warner, and the News Corporation's 20th Century Fox, are in negotiations with YouTube seeking licensing agreements that would make their content legally available on the site.
 In the meantime, they are also pressing YouTube to adopt filtering mechanisms more quickly to keep unlawful material from even showing up. And several media companies are in talks to create their own YouTube-like site, a move some in the industry suggest is a form of posturing to help push the licensing negotiations forward.
 ''I think studios will sue if they don't get a licensing deal they like,'' said Jessica Litman, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School. ''My guess is if I were a movie studio, getting a cut of the money is more profitable than shutting it down. But it's complicated, very complicated, and it's only going to get worse.''
 Google also has a lot resting on how these copyright issues are resolved, because investors are eager to see whether the $1.65 billion it paid for YouTube was well-spent. 
 Chris Maxcy, vice president of business development for YouTube, declined to be interviewed, but he said in an e-mail message that YouTube had successfully worked with studios to market their movies and sought deals with studios to make their content more widely available. ''In fact, we're now in discussions with several studios to create both content partnerships and revenue-sharing opportunities,'' he wrote.
 Much of the content on YouTube, of course, has nothing to do with Hollywood -- like the thousands of video blogs created by teenagers with Web cams. But there is enough copyrighted material there to warrant the attention of the studios and many other media companies -- everything from the dancing penguins of the new film ''Happy Feet'' to the black-and-white television clips of the Beatles singing ''Help.''
 No one knows exactly how much Hollywood-derived content is uploaded to the site without the studios' consent, but academics and media executives estimate it could be anywhere from 30 percent to 70 percent.
 The studios are happy to have some of their content on YouTube. Marc Shmuger, chairman of Universal Pictures, said that for each new release, Universal's marketing team sends out a digital ''tool kit'' to sites like YouTube with studio-approved graphics, clips, sound effects and music videos that can be shared. Because ''8 Mile'' was released four years ago, its kit may have only included trailers and some clips. 
 ''I think that the marketing side of our company and the copyright-protection side have contradictory impulses,'' Mr. Shmuger said. ''But there is a huge appetite for content, and we are well-advised to recognize that appetite and find constructive ways to feed it.''
 Mr. Shmuger said the studios need to embrace sites like YouTube because they are the future of movie marketing. ''If you want to be involved in the cultural debate, you have to allow consumers to be more actively involved,'' he said. ''That's a different world order which we are not used to.''
 One scene Mr. Shmuger said would most certainly not have been part of the ''8 Mile'' tool kit -- one that shows up in 16 separate videos on YouTube -- is the climactic rap battle between Eminem's character Bunny Rabbit and Papa Doc.
 But from the perspective of a YouTube user, it is hard to tell which clips are studio-approved and which are not. Some clips from companies like CBS and NBC that have deals with YouTube are fairly easy to identify as authorized material. For the rest, said Pamela Samuelson, co-director of the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology, ''what you have is a gap between what people think is O.K. and what is over the line.'' 
 Already, several major music companies, including Universal Music Group, once a corporate sibling to Universal Pictures but now owned by Vivendi, have forged agreements with YouTube, which makes its money from advertising, that allows music to be played in videos for a fee.
 So in an odd twist, Eminem's songs from ''8 Mile'' are cleared for use on YouTube, while much of the accompanying video is not. In what could be an indication of the kinds of deals the studios might strike, Universal Music earns the higher of two amounts when its songs are used in a video: a flat fee per clip or a percentage of advertising revenue.
 ''We don't want to kill this,'' said Larry Kenswil, a Universal Music executive. ''We see this as a new source of revenue for us.''
 Where studios and music companies see the most complicated copyright issue is in the posting of mashups -- clips that incorporate video and music from various sources that has been ''mashed up'' to make something new. Most mashups are made by eager fans as a form of artistic expression or a demonstration of their editing skills. 
 ''I don't consider any of this stuff piracy,'' said Professor Litman of the University of Michigan. ''Folks are taking snippets and making them their own.''
 One video posted last March, credited to Kusoyaro Productions, includes clips from the 20th Century Fox film ''Napoleon Dynamite'' that have been cleverly edited to create a new music video for Eminem's song ''Lose Yourself'' from ''8 Mile.'' 
 The two movies' heroes couldn't be more different: Napoleon Dynamite is an awkward teenager in rural Idaho who stuffs his pockets with tater tots, while Eminem's character in ''8 Mile'' finds refuge from his trailer-park life by rapping in clubs. The video has been watched more than 60,000 times.
 Ron Wheeler, a senior vice president of content protection at Fox Entertainment Group, said that even though Fox was not being paid for the right to use the ''Napoleon Dynamite'' clips, the company had not asked that the video be taken down.
 ''We are not in the business of just saying no, but we do consider it unauthorized use,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
 He predicted, though, that the studio would be saying ''no'' more often in the future. Fox is working on a policy that will address the issue of mashups in a way that those creating them can understand. 
 ''We will offer as much freedom as legally able, but at the same time it will be less than some people are doing now,'' Mr. Wheeler added. ''It won't be 'anything goes.' ''
 Brian Grazer, a producer of ''8 Mile,'' said some of the mashups he had seen were ''pretty hip.'' But he said he, too, viewed them as a form of piracy: ''It bothers me artistically. Here's this thing where you have no control; they are chopping it up and putting your memories in a blender.''
 Directors may have a tough time accepting the wild world of mashups, particularly those who have been given control over the final cut of their movies. Mr. Grazer said he believed that Curtis Hanson, who directed ''8 Mile,'' would not be pleased. ''Something like this drives an auteur nuts,'' he said. Mr. Hanson did not return calls seeking comment. Eminem, through a spokesman, declined to comment. 
 But film, television and music companies are not the only ones in Hollywood seeking to protect their rights as online video spreads. The industry's guilds, too, are exploring what rights directors, writers, producers and actors will be afforded in the digital era. ''This is a thorny issue,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
 The Directors Guild of America is already taking a hard line. The guild's president, Michael Apted, said in a statement that he and his fellow directors would challenge the unauthorized use of any work. ''We will aggressively protect our members' creative and economic rights,'' he said.
 For an indication of ways that the relationship between studios and YouTube might unfold, many in the industry are pointing to two recent events. Universal Music sued MySpace, the social networking site, for copyright infringement. And when Google closed the YouTube deal it set aside as much as $200 million for potential copyright litigation. 
 YouTube said in September that it would introduce a new mechanism to filter out unauthorized videos and let owners claim their content by the end of the year, but it is still being developed.
 Mr. Cotton, the NBC Universal lawyer, said that the YouTube removal-request game could continue for only so long. ''Sand is running out of the hourglass,'' he said. ''Companies aren't prepared to sit by and not let this be addressed.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The dancing penguins of ''Happy Feet'' can be found on YouTube.
The Beatles are still together and singing ''Help'' on the Web site.
Napoleon Dynamite in an Eminem ''Lose Yourself'' video on the site. (pg. C2)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); ONLINE PIRACY (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%); LAWYERS (66%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Motion Pictures; Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Finances

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (95%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NEWS CORP (63%); GOOGLE INC (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Youtube; Nbc Universal; Warner Brothers Inc; 20th Century Fox

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



321 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 363 words

 BODY:

EXECUTIVE SENTENCING -- The former chairman of the Cendant Corporation, Walter A. Forbes (below), is to be sentenced Wednesday after his conviction at the end of October on charges related to large-scale accounting fraud at the conglomerate, which has since been broken up. It took eight years and three trials for federal prosecutors to prevail against Mr. Forbes. 


EXPERT WITNESS -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will testify before the Senate Budget Committee on Thursday, and he is expected to discuss the outlook for the economy. Mr. Bernanke has said in the past that he would try not to take partisan sides on specific budget matters. President Bush will present his budget proposal on Feb. 5.

RETAILERS CONVENE -- The National Retail Federation's big annual conference, which started Sunday, will continue through Wednesday at the Javits Convention Center in New York. The trade group plans to show off a ''store of the future,'' which it describes as an environmentally friendly boutique aimed at those 17 to 24.

NUMBERS THAT MATTER -- The week will bring snapshots of inflation, with the Producer Price Index for December (Wednesday) and the Consumer Price Index for December (Thursday). Other reports include the Federal Reserve's ''beige book'' of regional economic conditions as well as industrial production and capacity utilization for December (Wednesday); December housing starts and the Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators (Thursday); and the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index (Friday).

MANY EARNINGS REPORTS -- Earnings season starts to pick up steam, primarily in technology and financial services industries. Among the companies reporting are Intel and Wells Fargo (Tuesday); Apple, JPMorgan Chase, Kinder Morgan, Mellon Financial, Northern Trust, Parker Hannifin, Southwest Airlines, State Street and Washington Mutual (Wednesday); Bank of New York, Capital One Financial, Harley-Davidson, Merrill Lynch, Novartis and UnitedHealth Group (Thursday); and Citigroup, General Electric and Motorola (Friday).

HOLIDAY SCHEDULE -- Financial markets are closed on Monday in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); HOUSING STARTS (75%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); EXPERT WITNESSES (71%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); AIRLINES (62%); ACCOUNTING (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (91%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (81%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); KINDER MORGAN INC (53%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (53%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%); NOVARTIS AG (52%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (91%); COF (NYSE) (81%); WFC (NYSE) (81%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); KMI (NYSE) (53%); LUV (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (53%); BK (NYSE) (53%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%); UNH (NYSE) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (91%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (91%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (91%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (52%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007



322 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Blazing A Paper Trail In China; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: A Self-Made Billionaire Wrote Her Ticket On Recycled Cardboard 

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Just five years ago, Zhang Yin and her husband were driving around the United States in a used Dodge minivan begging garbage dumps to give them their scrap paper. 
 She and her husband, who was trained as a dentist, had formed a company in the 1990s to collect paper for recycling and ship it to China. It was a step up from life back in Hong Kong, where she had opened a paper trading company with $3,800 to cash in on China's chronic paper shortages.
''I remember what a man in the business told me back then,'' Ms. Zhang said. ''He said, 'Wastepaper is like a forest. Paper recycles itself, generation after generation.' ''
 Ms. Zhang took that memory all the way to the bank. As a result of her entrepreneurship, Zhang Yin (pronounced Jang Yeen) is now among the richest women anywhere in the world, including Oprah Winfrey, Martha Stewart and eBay's chief executive, Meg Whitman. Her personal wealth is estimated at $1.5 billion or more, with members of her family worth billions more. 
 Her companies take heaps of waste paper from the United States and Europe, ship it to China and recycle it into corrugated cardboard, which is then used for boxes that are packed with toys, electronics and furniture that is stamped ''Made in China'' and often shipped right back across the ocean to American consumers.
 After the boxes are thrown away, the cycle starts all over again. 
 Late last year, Forbes magazine named Ms. Zhang the wealthiest woman in China. She may even be the richest self-made woman in the world, challenging a handful of others, like Giuliana Benetton, who started the clothing company with her brothers, and Rosalia Mera, who co-founded Zara, the Spanish clothing retailer, with her former husband.
 Most of the world's richest women inherited their wealth: from the Walton women of Wal-Mart fame to the daughters of the men who created Mars candy bars, L'Oreal cosmetics and BMW. 
 But not Ms. Zhang. A petite 49-year-old woman with a cherubic smile and a fancy for diamonds, she started out from a modest background, the daughter of a military officer. Now she dominates the world's paper trade through her giant companies, one centered in Dongguan just outside Hong Kong and the other based in Los Angeles. 
 ''She's a visionary,'' says Herman Woo, an analyst at BNP Paribas, which helped her paper company list shares in Hong Kong. ''She doesn't mind putting a lot of money in at the beginning, to build the company.''
 That company, Nine Dragons Paper, is now China's biggest papermaker. The company raised nearly $500 million when it went public here last March with the help of Merrill Lynch. 
 Since then, shares of Nine Dragons have quadrupled, giving the company a market value of over $5 billion. (The Zhang family controls 72 percent of the company, which makes it one of the richest families in China.)
 Ms. Zhang's smaller, Los Angeles-based venture, America Chung Nam, is also one of the world's biggest paper trading companies, with ties to recycling yards in New York, Chicago and California.
 No other American company sends so much material to China, in as many containers, as America Chung Nam, which was named the top American exporter to China by volume for the fifth consecutive year in 2005, the most recent ranking, according to Piers Global Intelligence, which tracks import and export data.
 Now, with the paper industry shifting to China, where labor and land are cheaper, Ms. Zhang and Nine Dragons are vowing to take on the world's global paper giants, like International Paper, Weyerhaeuser and Smurfit Stone.
 ''My goal is to make Nine Dragons, in three to five years, the leader in containerboards,'' Ms. Zhang says emphatically in a short interview in her glistening Hong Kong office. ''My desire has always been to be the leader in an industry.''
 In person, Ms. Zhang is filled with nervous energy and hearty laughs. But she rarely grants interviews, and when she does, they are brief and controlled by an army of handlers.
 Ms. Zhang is cagey about how she made her fortune. In a society known for close ties and hidden deals between government officials and business leaders, she says simply, ''I'm an honest businesswoman.'' 
 Ms. Zhang was the oldest of eight children born into a military family from northern Heilongjiang Province, near the Russian border. During the brutal Cultural Revolution, which began in 1966, her father was sent to prison, like millions of others who were branded ''counterrevolutionaries'' or ''capitalist roaders.''
 When the Cultural Revolution came to a close in 1976, her father was released from prison and ''rehabilitated.'' She went to work as an accountant.
 After China's economic reforms got under way in the early 1980s, she moved to the southern coastal city of Shenzhen, one of the first areas in China allowed to experiment with capitalism. There she started working for a foreign-Chinese joint venture paper trading company.
 In 1985, she ventured to Hong Kong, which was then still a British colony.
 Ng Weiting, who was her partner in Hong Kong in the 1980s, says Ms. Zhang was driven and tough and had figured out how to get the best performance out of her workers. 
 ''When her employees asked for a pay raise, she would grant it if it was reasonable,'' he recalled. ''But when her employees made mistakes, she would criticize them severely. She made it clear when to reward and when to punish.''
 Analysts say Ms. Zhang's ebullient personality made her a great saleswoman and a sharp deal maker. 
 There were occasional threats from competitors, yet being a woman was not a problem, she says. "Actually, I didn't find it difficult," she says. "I found men respected me."
 After Hong Kong's paper market proved too small for her ambitions, she moved to Los Angeles in 1990 and married for the second time, to Liu Ming Chung, who was born in Taiwan, grew up in Brazil and is fluent in English.
 Together, they formed America Chung Nam. At the time, China's fast-growing economy faced shortages of raw materials, and the country began looking overseas for scrap metal and used paper. Zhang Yin was an early mover, one of the first to sell scrap paper to China.
 China's own paper products are poor quality, often made from grass, bamboo or rice stalks, leaving it at a disadvantage against waste paper derived from wood pulp, the source of most paper made in the United States and Europe.
 America Chung Nam quickly made deals with American scrap yards and began shipping huge containers of paper back to China. The demand grew so fast that in 1995, Ms. Zhang (who also goes by her Hong Kong name, Cheung Yan) returned to China to found Nine Dragons, opening her first papermaking facility in Dongguan. Mr. Liu now serves at chief executive; Ms. Zhang is chairwoman.
 A decade later, the company has 11 giant papermaking machines, 5,300 employees, $1 billion in annual revenue and a huge facility under construction in the country's other booming export hub, the Yangtze River Delta area near Shanghai. Reported profits last year rose a whopping 349 percent to $175 million.
 Nine Dragons is now one of the world's fastest growing paper companies, and yet the company says it cannot keep up with demand for containerboard, the material used to make boxes, because of the booming growth in China's economy and exports.
 Foreign paper companies have been slow to build a sizable manufacturing base in China. Analysts doubt they will catch up any time soon. And Chinese manufacturers have advantages. They burn cheap coal rather than clean but expensive natural gas. And they are capitalizing on less expensive labor and the newest machinery, while papermakers in the United States and Europe are often using less efficient machines from the 1970s and 1980s.
 ''It's very difficult for U.S. companies to get into this business now,'' says Mr. Woo at BNP Paribas. ''I heard five or six years ago they looked at opportunities but they didn't do anything.''
 ''Right now,'' Mr. Woo adds, ''the largest globally is Smurfit Stone. Weyerhaeuser is No. 2. By 2008, Nine Dragons could be No. 1.''
 Analysts have been nearly unanimous in their praise of Ms. Zhang, though she came under some criticism for appointing her 25-year-old son as a nonexecutive member of the Nine Dragons board of directors. 
 But Ms. Zhang vigorously defends the appointment, saying her son is qualified and Nine Dragons is, after all, a family company. She has a second son in high school. And her younger brother, Zhang Chang Fei, is the company's deputy chief executive, worth an estimated $900 million, according to Forbes. 
 Ms. Zhang jumped to No. 5 this year in the Forbes ranking of the wealthiest people in China, from No. 107 last year, largely because of the huge public stock listing.
 She hasn't lost her ambition, though. Sometimes called the queen of trash, she doesn't disown the title. But, she said, ''Some day, I'd like to be known as the queen of containerboards.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Zhang Yin, who saw a solution to China's thirst for containerboard by importing United States scrap paper, in her Hong Kong office. (Photo by Paul Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); PAPER MFG (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PAPER & PACKAGING TRADE (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (64%); COSMETICS (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (63%); PAPER MILLS (62%) Paper and Pulp; Biographical Information; Company and Organization Profiles; Recycling of Waste Materials; Waste Materials and Disposal; International Trade and World Market; Paper and Pulp

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); NINE DRAGONS PAPER (HOLDINGS) LTD (57%); BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Nine Dragons Paper; America Chung Nam; International Paper Co; Weyerhaeuser Co; Smurfit-Stone Container Corp

TICKER: OR (PAR) (64%); OR (BIT) (64%); 2689 (HKSE) (57%); BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (57%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (57%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (57%); SIC2611 PULP MILLS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (52%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (51%); GIULIANA BENETTON (50%); ROSALIA MERA (50%) Zhang Yin; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (79%) Los Angeles (Calif) ; China

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



323 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong and Shanghai Duel for Financial Capital

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and DAVID BARBOZA; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and David Barboza from Shanghai.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
Hong Kong and Shanghai are locked in an increasingly public struggle to become China's main financial center as a top-level committee in the capital, Beijing, prepares to meet later this month to map out a national financial regulatory strategy.
 On Monday, Hong Kong's highest government leaders and best-known business tycoons made the city's case at a series of televised conferences and briefings. They called for China to continue letting the biggest state-owned companies make their initial public offerings here, allow the Chinese currency, the yuan, to circulate more widely here and dismantle many remaining financial barriers between the mainland and Hong Kong, a former British colony.
Shanghai's efforts have been less public. They have also been harmed by a spreading corruption scandal that has led to the arrest of the city's top Communist Party official and a growing number of business leaders.
 But as the traditional center of Chinese business life, Shanghai still has many allies in the capital. It has also emerged as the center of Chinese bond trading and as a favorite headquarters for Chinese and foreign companies. 
 The jostling between the two cities is coming close to name calling. Ronald Arculli, chairman of the company that runs Hong Kong's stock exchanges, said that just as New York is the main financial center for the Americas even though Chicago or Toronto may not like it, Hong Kong is poised to become the main international financial center for Asia.
 Asked if he was suggesting that Hong Kong was becoming like New York and Shanghai like Chicago, Mr. Arculli said twice that this was his goal, adding, ''We stand a decent shot of making it there.''
 That is hardly the view from Shanghai. City leaders and academics point out their biggest advantage: the currency circulating in the streets and markets is the yuan, which foreigners can buy and sell only with difficulty.
 Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has its own currency, the Hong Kong dollar, which is linked to the United States dollar. The Hong Kong dollar is internationally convertible but cannot be easily exchanged for yuan on the mainland because of China's capital controls.
 ''The independent monetary system restricts Hong Kong's ambition to become the financial capital of the country,'' said Pan Yingli, a professor in the School of Management at Shanghai Jiaotong University.
 In back-to-back ceremonies and briefings Monday at the main government offices here and at the convention center, Hong Kong officials tried to exploit Shanghai's temporary political weakness and push Beijing into making Hong Kong the primary financial center of China.
 ''If we do not act now,'' David Li, chairman of the Bank of East Asia, warned at a government briefing, ''inertia will set in and business will gravitate to established financial centers overseas.''
 Hong Kong and Shanghai are not just competing with each other -- they are also vying with Tokyo and Singapore to become the most important financial center in Asia. Each wants to be the place where investment banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other big investors send their best and brightest to oversee trading during the hours after the sun sets in New York and before it rises in London.
 Each city has its strengths. Tokyo has the region's largest stock and bond markets, although they have attracted less attention lately because they lack the appeal of the Chinese economic boom. Singapore is the main center for trading oil and other energy products, and is an important hub for currency trading.
 But the most intense rivalry is between Hong Kong and Shanghai. Each strives to impress businesses and regulators that it is the best place for Chinese businesses to raise money and investors to give it to them.
 It is one of the oldest rivalries in Asia, dating back more than a century. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, these days HSBC, was started in Hong Kong on March 3, 1865, and opened for business in Shanghai a month later.
 While Shanghai overshadowed Hong Kong in many ways before World War II, Hong Kong regained leadership after the Communist takeover in 1949, and benefited from the emigration of thousands of Shanghai business people. And in the 1990's, the rise of a Shanghai faction of politicians in China, including President Jiang Zemin, resulted in many policies that favored their city.
 Since taking China's top jobs in late 2002 and 2003, President Hu Jintao has tried to limit Shanghai's influence. With the city mired in its corruption scandal, Hong Kong is trying to seize the initiative again. As Hong Kong's leaders repeated again and again Monday, Hong Kong has advantages now that include the rule of law, extensive financial expertise, a tradition of strong corporate governance, widespread knowledge of English and close ties to global markets.
 As a result of listings by big Chinese banks and other institutions, Hong Kong's main stock exchange had a greater volume of initial public offerings last year -- valued at $41.22 billion -- than any other stock exchange, although more money was raised in London over all.
 But while Hong Kong aspires to be an international financial center, it is sometimes derided in Asia as a one-legged stool -- a powerhouse in equities trading, including a doubling of trading in stocks and derivative warrants last year, but without another leg to stand on.
 Close to 200 bond issues are listed here, but local banks and insurance companies tend to buy them up when issued and then sit on them for years, with minimal trading. The local government runs a budget surplus, and while it has issued a small volume of bonds to help create a market, these also trade in very low volume.
 While corporate bond trading is still in its infancy in Shanghai as well, the trading of government debt securities there has picked up. The Chinese central bank has had to issue tens of billions of dollars worth of notes to sop up the enormous amounts in yuan it is pushing into the market to prevent China's currency from appreciating in value against other currencies.
 Hong Kong business leaders are dismissive of Shanghai's stock market -- Paul Chow, chief executive of the Hong Kong exchange, said in an interview Friday that it ''is predominantly a retail market, Hong Kong is not.'' But although Shanghai's stock market is still considerably smaller than Hong Kong's, it is also rising faster and was the world's top performer last year, up 130 percent.
 Shanghai has lost a couple rounds lately. The government authorized Hong Kong last Wednesday to begin trading bonds denominated in Chinese yuan, and has selected Tianjin, not Shanghai, for an experiment with limited convertibility of the yuan.
 Hong Kong also plans to start trading nondeliverable futures contracts on the yuan this summer, Mr. Chow said. And while officials directed General Motors in 1997 to open its initial Chinese car assembly plant in Shanghai, it steered Airbus last year to select Tianjin, a big port near Beijing, for an aircraft assembly plant.
 But Shanghai is becoming an important center of commodities trading. It has just passed Tokyo in the biggest market for trading natural rubber, testimony to the buying power of Chinese industrial companies.
 Hong Kong has very little commodities trading, losing much of its former role in international gold markets. Hong Kong gold prices were quoted around the world in the 1980s, but have become much less important as the handful of local gold traders continue to do business exclusively in Chinese and have not welcomed international banks and trading houses.
 Mainland China still has many restrictions on the private ownership of gold, slowing but not preventing the creation of a modern gold market in Shanghai with ambitions to become an important force in global trading. Shanghai is also setting up futures markets to allow Chinese traders to place bets on the direction of the country's interest rates.
 Experts said that Shanghai was likely to become an increasingly formidable competitor in years to come, and expressed doubt that Hong Kong leaders would succeed in persuading the Chinese government to give their city clear regulatory preference over its rival to the north. Beijing officials are still more likely to think of Shanghai than Hong Kong as a domestic financial market entitled to regulatory favors.
 ''Shanghai is in a temporary eclipse because of these political factors,'' said Jack Lange, a partner in the Hong Kong office of the Paul, Weiss law firm. ''But Shanghai is where it's happening -- if there is going to be a domestic financial center that gives Hong Kong a run for its money, it's going to be Shanghai.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An entrepreneur's delight: a portion of the Hong Kong skyline from the Wanchai district, left, to the Central district on Hong Kong island as Star Ferry vessels make their way through Victoria Harbor. (Photo by Mike Clarke/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images )
 Some of Shanghai's striking newer architecture. Along with recent corruption scandals and world-class air pollution, the city has a financial tradition dating well back into the 19th century. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)Chart: ''Top Exchanges''Hong Kong's stock exchange had the highest dollar volume of initial public offerings last year.2006 I.P.O. volumeDollars in billions1. Hong Kong $41.222. London $39.313. New York $29.224. Nasdaq $17.475. Euronext Amsterdam $12.526. London AIM $11.927. Moscow $11.768. Frankfurt $9.749. Shanghai $9.6210. Tokyo First Section $8.9911. Milan $6.4012. Tokyo $5.4913. Sao Paulo $4.4714. Mumbai $4.3815. National $4.35(Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TRENDS (71%); BONDS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); ARRESTS (68%); SCANDALS (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Finances; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%); BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%); 0023 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) China; Hong Kong; Shanghai (China); Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



324 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; LAST CHANCE: ART REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A Promise That Never Bloomed, a Post-Minimalist You've Never Heard Of 

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
The word is that, with the art industry so flush, nonprofit alternative spaces are thriving. And why shouldn't they be? Some of them now look all but indistinguishable from commercial galleries. 
 White Columns in Chelsea recently devoted its space to a survey of 2006 art season highlights from distinctly for-profit Chelsea galleries. The SculptureCenter in Long Island City, Queens, is currently giving over its main space to a large-scale piece, already shown elsewhere, by Monica Bonvicini, an Italian artist who has been thoroughly vetted and long supported by the international establishment.
But aren't alternative spaces where we should look for introductions to new or commercially unrepresented or undervalued or lost careers? Or for projects too impractical or arcane or outre to find a mainstream platform? Isn't the alternative space, by definition, where the possibility of failure is written into the mandate, and where a record for risking failure is not only a gauge of institutional success but also the justification for existence? 
 There are, of course, small alternative spaces in the city that are doing things not being done elsewhere, staying strange and risking, among other things, critical heat. Triple Candie in Harlem is one. Established in 2001, it offered in its first few years fairly traditional solo and group shows, often of artists either locally underknown (Charles Gaines) or unaffiliated (Rodney McMillian). Lately, though, it has been trying something different. The gallery has begun to take a less orthodox course.
 A few years ago it gave full-scale solo shows to artists who remained anonymous. Last summer it organized an unauthorized David Hammons retrospective composed entirely of photocopied catalog illustrations of that elusive artist's work. 
 Next came a survey of another mythic, maverick contemporary figure, Cady Noland, consisting entirely of Triple Candie-made replicas of her installations. Now comes a third retrospective, a posthumous one, the first and almost certainly the last, ever devoted to an artist named Lester Hayes. 
 The child of an African-American father and an Italian-American mother, Hayes was born in Philadelphia in 1936. Bright and ambitious, he majored in chemical engineering in college but after reading Robert Motherwell's anthology of Dada painters and poets, started making sculptural assemblages. 
 In 1962, after deciding on art as a career, he moved to New York City, where he worked as Richard Tuttle's first studio assistant, was courted by Leo Castelli and in 1967, at 31, had a first solo at Richard Feigen Gallery, a show that included a mural-size work made of unpainted, unstretched canvases titled ''Elegy in Seven Parts (for Lena Horne).''
 Hayes seemed assured of success, but the show was a bust; he sold almost nothing. The timing, it turned out, was bad. His post-Minimalist, proto-Conceptualist style had not yet come into fashion in the mainstream art world. And, despite its racially charged content, his work was too abstract to be identified with a new Black Power aesthetic, from which, in any case, he distanced himself by turning down invitations to appear in exclusively black art shows.
 According to the Hayes biography supplied by Triple Candie, Feigen quickly canceled plans to give the artist a second show. Stricken and destitute, Hayes took a bartending job, and finally a teaching job at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he ended up staying for nearly 20 years. 
 He continued to make art, but after he retired to North Carolina in 1984, the house he lived in caught fire, and his accumulated artwork was destroyed. (Triple Candie notes that every piece in the exhibition is a replica made for the occasion.) Despondent and alone, he died of complications from diabetes in 2004.
 The Hayes story is a familiar one, and of a kind the art world loves. Not only was he tragically unrecognized but, we now learn, he was also hugely influential. Gallery news material notes that his 1965 Lena Horne piece, made while he was working for Mr. Tuttle, anticipated by two years the first of Mr. Tuttle's unstretched canvas pieces. And another Hayes work, ''Bound to Fail'' (1966), which refers to slavery, predates by a year Bruce Nauman's ''Henry Moore Bound to Fail.'' 
 The politics of influence are unmistakable. White artists adapt the work of an African-American artist, but drain it of racial content. The same white artists achieve prominence, while the black artist sinks into an obscurity from which he should now, finally, be raised. 
 But he will not be raised, because there is no Lester Hayes. He never existed. He is entirely an invention of Triple Candie. The gallery's directors, Shelly Bancroft and Peter Nesbett, the co-publishers of the magazine Art on Paper, who assembled the Hammons survey from photocopies and the Noland from replicas, cobbled together all the ''Hayes'' work from scrap material and cooked up the detailed biography to go with it. 
 So, with no real artist and no real art, what do you have here? You have many questions raised about art and the often unquestioned ideas surrounding it, like originality, authenticity, influence, history, formal value and biography-as-value. Is contemporary art largely a promotional scam perpetuated by -- in no particular order of blame -- museums, dealers, critics, historians, collectors, art schools and anyone else who has a sufficient personal, professional or financial investment riding on the scam to want to keep it afloat? 
 If you are affected -- moved, amused, provoked -- by the assembled Hayes oeuvre, then is it art? Are Ms. Bancroft and Mr. Nesbett artists? (They would certainly say no.) Are they themselves perpetrators of a scam? Or are they critical thinkers working in an alternative direction to the market economy? Imagine the consequences if lots of people started creating ''fake'' art without acknowledging what they were up to? The whole art-as-investment illusion would evaporate. The market would crumble. Art myths could no longer be trusted. The Triple Candie's Hayes biography, in other words, is spun largely from myths and cliches that sell art and artists today.
 As for the ''Hayes'' art in the show, with its junk materials, slapdash handiwork and jokey titles, it's not much. Or, rather, it's exactly an alternative to ''much.'' When the show, which runs through Sunday, comes down, everything will be destroyed. And the gallery, which runs on a small budget and has a tiny board of directors, will go on to other projects, including a planned re-creation of one of the most controversial museum shows of the latter half of the 20th century, the Metropolitan Museum's 1969 ''Harlem on My Mind.'' 
 When that show opened, it was bitterly attacked for perpetuating racist myths and substituting documentary material for actual work by black artists. Can such charges be leveled at Triple Candie for the Lester Hayes show? Is it an example of the white art world -- Ms. Bancroft and Mr. Nesbett are white -- getting mileage out of the work of a black artist, real or not?
 According to his biography, Hayes was invited by fellow African-American artists to join them in protesting the Met exhibition, but he refused, stating that ''it was ultimately more important for our community as a whole to be better understood, than for specific individuals to be celebrated via their work.'' Maybe he and his work, however uncelebratable, will get a dollar-glutted art world thinking in more complex and alternative ways than he, had he existed, could possibly know. 

''Lester Hayes: Selected Work, 1962-1975'' continues through Sunday at Triple Candie, 461 West 126th Street, Harlem; (212) 865-0783.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreground, ''Beyond the Pail,'' and, in back, ''Self-Portraits,'' by Lester Hayes, an unrecognized, influential and extremely elusive artist. (Photo by Triple Candie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POETRY (73%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (71%); WRITERS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Lester Hayes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



325 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: For a Director on the Rise, Sarajevo's War Years Linger

BYLINE: By JOAN DUPONT

DATELINE: WARSAW 

 BODY:
In December the European Film Awards took place here, the first time the event has been held in Eastern Europe. And in Warsaw, a city still blanketed by the pall of the past, two distinct cultural spheres were evident.
 There was the West, with the German filmmaker Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck winning best film for ''The Lives of Others'' (''Das Leben der Anderen''), about the decaying regime of East Germany, and the popular ''Volver'' picking up just about every other prize in sight, including a best-director citation for Pedro Almodovar.
 And then there were the filmmakers from Eastern Europe. They didn't expect to get prizes in Warsaw, but they came with hope of a certain recognition. They would have preferred spending time with directors like Wim Wenders, who presided over the event, and Roman Polanski, who won a lifetime achievement award, rather than being trotted onstage like forlorn waifs to talk about the hardships of distribution. 
 Two young filmmakers, Jasmila Zbanic, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Agnes Kocsis, from Hungary, had been nominated for stirring first films, stories of damaged women and fatherless children. Ms. Zbanic's ''Grbavica, the Land of My Dreams'' and Ms. Kocsis's ''Fresh Air'' were made on shoestrings, and with an economy of pathos. 
 ''We hoped to get together with Wenders and others from the West,'' Ms. Zbanic said. ''In the '60s directors like Milos Forman and his friends drank and smoked pot together, stole film stock and smuggled their little movies into festivals. We were happy to come here because we have so much to discuss together, but everything seems to put us at different tables. I don't get it.'' 
 Ms. Zbanic, 32, is the very tall, forthright director who won a surprise Gold Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival last year with ''Grbavica.'' She fumes, but also laughs often, in great gusts; she doesn't mince words and is aware of her impact. Her film has been nominated to represent Bosnia for the foreign-language Oscar. ''Grbavica,'' which has already been shown in most of Europe, is scheduled to be released in New York at Film Forum on Feb. 16.
 Ms. Zbanic grew up behind Sarajevo's Holiday Inn, where reporters were lodged during the war in that part of the world in the early 1990s, and across from Grbavica, a quarter that became the site of an internment camp. 
 ''I grew up during the shift to socialism, and since it was my childhood, I used to think that everything was beautiful and human,'' she said. ''The world I live in now seems very hard and unjust. Sometimes the period after war, what we are left with, is as bad as the war itself.'' 
 She always knew she wanted to make movies, and there were plenty of movie houses in Sarajevo, ''because the regime knew movies were good for propaganda.'' When everything fell apart, and war raged on the streets, she took to writing stories and films. 
 ''It was important to feel that you were resisting the fascism around you,'' Ms. Zbanic said. ''But we had no electricity to watch movies. We were imagining our movies. When I wrote, I imagined having conversations with Bergman.'' 
 When she received the award in Berlin, she mentioned the Serbian war criminals who still have not been captured. ''Immediately there was a response from the Serbian press, from people who hadn't even seen the movie, saying that it was against them,'' she said. ''Then came threatening letters to the actress calling her a Muslim whore for playing the part of a Bosnian when she is Serbian.'' 
 In ''Grbavica,'' the actress Mirjana Karanovic, known for her roles in Emir Kusturica's films, plays a mother living alone with her preadolescent daughter in Grbavica. She has told the child that her father was a shaheed, a martyr, concealing the real story of her brutal conception. 
 ''The mother is a passionate woman, and she loves this child that she didn't want,'' the director said. ''War questions basics like motherhood; all our human emotions are turned upside down.'' 
 When Ms. Zbanic wrote the screenplay, she had just given birth to her own daughter. ''Writing this script was the best way I could find to deal with a story of trauma and how it is transmitted to the next generation,'' she said. ''I have never understood why people identify with criminals: even if your father and grandfather were criminal, you have to find a way to be free. What my father's father did is not what I have to do, and I don't have to identify with being a victim either.'' 
 ''We were a Communist family,'' she continued, ''and my parents believed that religion was the opium of the people. Today the churches are full in Bosnia, and because we are Muslims, I can't travel anywhere without a visa. The trouble is, as a result, young Muslims today are attracted to radical Islam. They say, if nobody wants us, we'll go someplace else.'' 
 During the war, artists, writers and entertainers came to Sarajevo. Ms. Zbanic stayed there for much of the war but was invited for six months to the Bread and Puppet Theater of Vermont, a radical political theater whose practice is to share its bread with the audience at each performance. 
 ''I met Peter Schumann, who heads the company, and liked him and what they were doing, so when they invited me to make bread and puppets on the farm, I went,'' she said. ''And today I still feel that bread and art are the same thing: during the war, you are hungry, but you still need culture.''
 The Vermont troupe plans to come to New York for the opening of ''Grbavica,'' she said. 
 Her time in Vermont was also excellent for her English, which she speaks in a rush and without a hitch, particularly fluently when she talks about her country's history. 
 ''It's not that complicated,'' she said. ''There were once three nations and three religions; Bosnia became independent, and we were attacked by the Serbian army. We had a U.N. embargo on guns and weren't allowed to defend ourselves. The international community didn't do anything to help us for three and a half years.'' 
 She finds that being Bosnian today means having another relationship with the world and particularly with the issue of being Muslim. ''We have questions about identity and have to find ways of dealing with the nationalisms around us,'' she said. ''In school, we learned that the partisans were heroes. Now, we have to relate to the fathers in our own history. Were they heroes or terrorists and rapists?'' 
 Ms. Zbanic's daughter is 6. ''She is in love with the boys and wants to put on makeup and all that,'' Ms. Zbanic said. ''I told my husband, 'Soon we'll be grandparents.' ''
 Then she added: ''This generation gets serious quicker. The times are so serious. Her teacher was telling them about how God created the world, and she raised her hand and asked, 'Did God also create Ratko Mladic, the war criminal?' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mirjana Karanovic, right, and Luna Mijovic play mother and daughter in ''Grbavica, the Land of My Dreams,'' directed by Jasmila Zbanic. (Photo by Strand Releasing)
 Ms. Zbanic, whose film is scheduled to be shown at Film Forum in New York next month. (Photo by Mark Mainz/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CANNABIS (69%) Motion Pictures; Academy Awards (Oscars); Awards, Decorations and Honors; Berlin International Film Festival; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Joan Dupont; Jasmila Zbanic

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (86%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



326 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Ruins in Northern Syria Bear the Scars of a City's Final Battle

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Archaeologists digging in Syria, in the upper reaches of what was ancient Mesopotamia, have found new evidence of how one of the world's earliest cities met a violent end by fire, collapsing walls and roofs, and a fierce rain of clay bullets. The battle left some of the oldest known ruins of organized warfare. 
 The excavations at the city, Tell Hamoukar, which was destroyed in about 3500 B.C., have also exposed remains suggesting its origins as a manufacturing center for obsidian tools and blades, perhaps as early as 4500 B.C. 
The two discoveries were made in September and October and announced yesterday by the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago and the Syrian Department of Antiquities. The site is in northeastern Syria, less than five miles from the Iraqi border.
 The proximity to Iraq is not insignificant. Driven out of Iraq by the war and political turmoil, Western archaeologists who specialize in the first urban civilization that flourished in Mesopotamia have had to shift their digging to the northern fringes of the Tigris and Euphrates river valleys, in Syria and Turkey.
 As a result, archaeologists are gaining a broader perspective on a transformative period in antiquity that saw the rise of the first cities, specialization in work, stratification of society and eventually, the first known writing. While the more thoroughly studied urban centers in southern Iraq may have been earlier and more powerful city-states that coalesced into empires, those in the north were not as peripheral as once assumed. Some of them developed robust cultures more or less independent of the south. Trade between the two regions was common, and so apparently was conflict.
 ''We are learning that what was happening in the north cannot be explained as just simple expansion of southern culture,'' said Clemens Reichel, a University of Chicago archaeologist who is excavating the battle ruins at the site. Guillermo Algaze, an archaeologist at the University of California, San Diego, who specializes in north-south relations in ancient Mesopotamia, said, ''our interpretations are going to shift,'' when these new findings are published.
 Expanded excavations at Tell Brak, Habuba Kabira, Hamoukar and elsewhere in northern Syria, Dr. Algaze said, have revealed that some northern cities were larger at an earlier time than was expected. And ample evidence is being found for specialized industries like the obsidian works at Hamoukar.
 ''We are formulating questions to ask when we get back in southern Iraq,'' Dr. Algaze said.
 Almost no field work has been done in Iraq since 1990, leaders of Mesopotamian archaeology say, and concern is mounting that war and looting have left prized sites in disarray. New hydroelectric projects are another spur to stepped-up excavations in Syria and Turkey. Archaeologists are rushing to dig before ruins are inundated by dammed rivers.
 Research at Hamoukar has been under way since 1999. The Chicago-Syria team has now determined that the 40-acre heart of the city was surrounded by a 10-foot-thick wall. The main mound covering ruins extends over 260 acres, and in the outskirts to the south, pottery and obsidian flakes and cores are scattered over some 700 acres.
 Dr. Reichel, the American co-director of the project, said that excavations in the recent season turned up more evidence of ''how the city looked the day it was destroyed.'' In a swift and intense attack, he said, ''buildings collapsed, burning out of control, burying everything in them under a vast pile of rubble.''
 The excavators uncovered ruins of storerooms with many clay seals to secure baskets and other containers of commodities. They also investigated two large administrative buildings destroyed by fire. In the debris inside, they collected more than 1,000 round or oval-shaped clay bullets that would have been delivered by slings, then a principal weapon of warfare. One bullet had pierced the plaster of a mud-brick wall. 
 Twelve graves held the skeletons of likely battle victims.
 The bullets and the pattern of destruction led the archaeologists to rule out earthquake damage and conclude that a tremendous battle had taken place. Dr. Reichel and other experts said there was no way to identify the aggressor, but they assumed it was the army of one of the southern cities.
 When the archaeologists suggested in a 2005 report that a battle had been fought there, they encountered some skepticism from other researchers. But Dr. Algaze, who is not involved in the Hamoukar project, said the sling bullets, breached walls and widespread destruction ''have convinced even the non-believers that this is evidence of conflict.''
 The more recent discovery of the city's production of sharp and durable tools from obsidian, a volcanic glass, may prove to be significant in understanding the economy of northern Mesopotamia in relation to the south, archaeologists say.
 Well beyond the city center, the Hamoukar team found finished obsidian blades and the spoil of obsidian processing over hundreds of years, beginning around 4500 B.C. ''They were not just using these tools here,'' said Salam al-Kuntar, the project's Syrian co-director. ''They were making them here.''
 The people at Hamoukar appeared to be taking raw obsidian, probably from deposits more than 100 miles away in Turkey, and turning it into a thriving export business. This and perhaps the later processing of copper, archaeologists say, might account for the city's growth and apparent prosperity up to the time its walls came tumbling down in battle.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BULLETS AND BLADES Archaeological digs at Tell Hamoukar in Syria have yielded the remains of a body, possibly a war casualty, top, and evidence of an obsidian carving industry. Also found throughout the site, left to right: clay bullets, obsidian beads and arrowheads, and clay seals used to secure containers. (Photos by University of Chicago)Map of Syria highlighting Tell Hamoukar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RIVERS (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (56%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Mesopotamian Civilization; Tools; Rock and Stone; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%) University of Chicago; Syrian Department of Antiquities

PERSON: John Noble Wilford; Clemens (Dr) Reichel

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (95%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) Syria; Tell Hamouker (Syria)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



327 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: The Voices In My Head Say 'Buy It!' Why Argue?

BYLINE: By John Tierney

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
Now that scientists have spotted the pain and pleasure centers in the brain, they've moved on to more expensive real estate: the brain's shopping center. They have been asking the big questions:
 What is the difference between a tightwad's brain and a spendthrift's brain?
What neurological circuits stop you from buying a George Foreman grill but not a Discovery Channel color-changing mood clock?
 Why is there a $2,178.23 balance on my January Visa bill? 
 This last question isn't yet fully answered, even after I stared at said Visa bill while lying inside a functional M.R.I. machine at Stanford University. But scientists are closer to solving the mystery. By scanning shoppers' brains, they think they've identified a little voice telling you not to spend your money. Or, in my case, a voice saying, ''At this price, you can't afford not to buy the mood clock!'' 
 For convenience' sake, economists have traditionally assumed that buyers make rational choices: I think, therefore I shop. You pass up the George Foreman grill because you sagely calculate that the money would be better spent on, say, your child's college fund. Or at least the mood clock. You choose to forgo one good in exchange for something better. 
 Even the most rational economists, though, realize that the shopper's mind is more complicated. The brain's ''impartial spectator,'' as Adam Smith warned, has to duel with ''the passions.'' Last year, after surveying shoppers' passions, behavioral economists at Carnegie Mellon University developed what they call the Tightwad-Spendthrift scale. 
 But this kind of survey reveals only what shoppers choose to confess. To find out more, the economists teamed with psychologists at Stanford to turn an M.R.I. machine into a shopping mall. They gave each experimental subject $40 in cash and offered the chance to buy dozens of gadgets, appliances, books, DVDs and assorted tchotchkes. Lying inside the scanner, first you'd see a picture of a product. Next you'd see its price, which was about 75 percent below retail. Then you'd choose whether or not you'd like a chance to buy it. Afterward, the researchers randomly chose a couple of items from their mall, and if you had said yes to either one, you bought it; otherwise you went home with the cash. 
 The good news, for behavioral science, was that the researchers saw telltale patterns, which they report in the Jan. 4 issue of the journal Neuron. ''We were frankly shocked at how clear the results were,'' said Brian Knutson, the Stanford psychologist who led the experiment. ''It was amazing to be able to see brain activity seconds before a decision and predict whether the person would buy it or not.'' 
 The bad news, for my son's college funds, is that my responses to this experiment were not what could be called a happy medium, despite my best efforts at restraint. I passed up not just the Foreman grill but the sonic power toothbrush and the Bar Master electronic drink guide. But Dr. Knutson and his Stanford colleague, Elliott Wimmer, reported that ''subject JT'' chose to buy ''50 percent of the items, approximately 2 standard deviations more than the average 30 percent buy rate.'' 
 I will not try to justify my need for the mood clock, the ''Dodgeball'' DVD, the desk-clip lamp and the smoothie maker. I would rather pin these choices on two culprits. 
 The first was my nucleus accumbens, a region of the brain with dopamine receptors that are activated when you experience or anticipate something pleasant, like making money or drinking something tasty. In the experimental subjects at Stanford, this region was activated when they first saw pictures of things they wanted to buy. My nucleus accumbens just happened to respond more strongly than the typical subject's, so what else could I do? If it feels good, buy it. 
 The other culprit -- the main villain, really -- was my insula. This region of the brain is activated when you smell something bad, see a disgusting picture or anticipate a painful shock. It was typically activated in the brains of the other shoppers when they saw a price that seemed too high. I'd like to think of my insula as particularly stoic, the strong, silent type, but he's probably just an oblivious slob.
 The lazy insula is a rarer affliction than you'd guess by looking at Americans' indebtedness. Tightwads slightly outnumber spendthrifts, according to surveys by George Loewenstein and his colleagues at Carnegie Mellon, Scott Rick and Cynthia Cryder. These behavioral economists think tightwads aren't any more rational than spendthrifts, because neither group is carefully weighing the long-term benefits of a Foreman grill versus college tuition. Dr. Loewenstein says the brain scans demonstrate that both kinds of shoppers are guided by instant emotions. 
 ''We developed this propensity to experience direct pain when we spend money,'' Dr. Loewenstein said. ''This explains why tightwads won't spend money even when they should. It also helps to explain why we overspend on credit cards, and why people prefer all-you-can-eat buffets instead of paying for each item they order. We like schemes that remove the immediate pain of paying.''
 These schemes are a blessing for pathological tightwads, but they leave spendthrifts worse off. Paying cash is the usual cure suggested, but that hasn't worked for me, presumably because my insula is such a slug. So I asked the Stanford psychologists to test another approach. After the shopping experiment, they scanned my brain while showing me a copy of my $2,178.23 Visa bill and a control image of Dr. Knutson's credit card bill for a similar amount.
 ''When we compared your responses,'' Dr. Knutson told me, ''we saw a little spot of insula activation when you saw your own bill.''
 This gives me hope for a technological cure for spendthriftness: a credit card that would remind you of your outstanding balance every time you started to buy something. It could flash the total in large numbers, or announce it in a voice (say, Simon Cowell's) designed to arouse any insula.
 I realize there are certain practical obstacles to this scheme, like the unwillingness of merchants or credit -card companies to put themselves out of business Even if a bank were willing to market the card, it would be tough to get spendthrifts to sign up for it. 
 But what's the alternative? You might remove the pleasure of shopping by somehow dulling the brain's dopamine receptors so that not even the new Apple iPhone would get a rise in the nucleus accumbens, but try getting anyone to stay on that medication. Better the occasional jolt of pain. Charge it to the insula. 

TWO NEW COLUMNS -- John Tierney will be exploring the frontiers and backwaters of science every other week with a gimlet eye and a touch of humor. He will alternate with Natalie Angier, who will start next Tuesday teasing out the basic scientific principles behind the news. Readers are invited to join in Mr. Tierney's forays on his blog.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Columnist's Brain The spot at left (1) and the blotch at right (2), show neural activity in a part of the author's brain called the nucleus accumbens when he experienced the urge to purchase what he was shown in an experiment -- a mood clock, for example. (Photo by Stanford University)(pg. F6)Drawing (Drawing by Headcase Design)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BRAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (71%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (67%) Brain; Credit; Research; Magnetic Resonance Imagers; Emotions; Consumer Behavior; Tests and Testing; Brain; Credit and Money Cards; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%) Stanford University; Neuron (Journal)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: John Tierney; Brian (Dr) Knutson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



328 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A Mother Dreams of Job Security, and an End to Scraping By

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Cassandra Bogen returned to Jamaica, Queens, from North Carolina in 1998 to take care of her dying mother. Being in her childhood home brought back a flood of memories. 
 She remembered her sister learning to play the piano. And she remembered that it was at Martin Van Buren High School in Queens Village where she fell in love with her first boyfriend. Though the relationship ended, they had a daughter, Twanysha, now 15.
Ms. Bogen said watching her mother, Marie Bogen, slowed down by age and illness was a stark contrast to the happier times they shared when she was younger. 
 When Ms. Bogen was a child, the holidays, even on her mother's limited budget as an accounts payable clerk in a grocery store, were always festive. ''No matter what, if you were in my mother's home you talked and enjoyed yourself,'' said Ms. Bogen, now 34, in her living room recently. 
 As diabetes eroded her mother's strength, the bills began to pile up. To pay the bills, Ms. Bogen worked as a consumer service representative at Health Insurance Plan of New York, and later at Bell Atlantic, which became Verizon. ''I just worked to support my mom, help with rent, groceries and bills,'' she said. 
 Ms. Bogen also helped her sister, Sonia Fryer, financially. Ms. Fryer has Crohn's disease and was also recovering from radiation treatment for a brain tumor. 
 Following her mother's example, Ms. Bogen said she was unequivocal when it came to family matters. ''Family comes first; material things are not important,'' she said. 
 In the last year of her mother's life, Ms. Bogen was happy to see her mother spend time with her grandson, Amir, who was born in May 2001. Twanysha was especially close to her grandmother, and insisted on sleeping in her bed. She was in the bedroom when her grandmother died on Nov. 23, 2001. 
 After her mother's death, Ms. Bogen took over the expenses and the apartment and was further strained financially. She scraped together $6,000 through a loan, her 401(k) plan, and family and friends to pay for her mother's funeral expenses. 
 In 2003, she left Verizon, taking a voluntary severance package, which she used to finish her bachelor's degree in business administration at Metropolitan College of New York. With the degree, she thought she would have a better chance of earning a higher salary. But even after she graduated, she could only find full-time work without benefits. 
 By 2005, her rent increased to $940 from $839 a month. She was working on Long Island in the customer service department at Health Care Partners, earning $15 an hour. The commuting and the stress began to wear her down. She was hospitalized in December 2005 for severe migraines, she said. 
 In the spring of 2006, her rent was increased again, this time to $1,053.49. It could not have happened at a worse time. She was fired from her job, and her daughter was acting out at school. Twanysha was in therapy for four months to work through severe depression and feelings of abandonment from her father and grandmother. ''All she understands is that people were in her life and now they are not,'' Ms. Bogen said. 
 ''I felt that I was not doing my job as a parent,'' Ms. Bogen added. ''You are doing so much and your plate is overfull, but you're trying to accommodate their needs.'' 
 When rent was due in May 2006, Ms. Bogen was short. ''I had to fight to maintain a roof over their head; she needed stability,'' Ms. Bogen said of her daughter. ''I definitely didn't want to go into the shelter.'' 
 While trying to find work, she received $164 a week from unemployment, which barely covered the cost of food, much less rent. She turned off her cellphone and posted a notice in the laundry room of her building to sell her love seat, sofa and television. 
 ''Nobody was calling me for jobs, I didn't have food stamps,'' she said. ''I was desperate.'' She sold the furnishings for $1,850, she said, which was about a third of what she had paid for them. 
 Trying to head off eviction, she went to a housing court in Queens in July 2006. There she received a number for the Community Service Society of New York, which is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Anna Auleley, a caseworker at the agency, returned her call and said she could help as soon as Ms. Bogen found a job, to ensure that she could pay rent the next month. 
 By September 2006, she owed $5,485.32. ''My management company would not let me pay a partial amount; I had to pay in full,'' she said. Before time ran out, she found a data entry job in New Jersey making $15 an hour. To pay the outstanding amount, Ms. Auleley drew $1,581.83 from Neediest Cases and received $1,053.49 from FEMA. Ms. Bogen covered the rest with her savings. 
 ''It was a big load off my shoulders,'' Ms. Bogen said with a sigh of relief. 
 Ms. Bogen now works temporarily in data processing for Fidelis Care in Queens, making $13 an hour. And she is sending out resumes, seeking an administrative position.
 Now in her apartment, beside the piano her sister used to play (one of the few things she did not sell), is a worn sofa and love seat given to her by a neighbor. 
 ''I wasn't going to say no,'' she said, referring to the offer for the furniture. ''For today, this is how we get by.''

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $6,484,079
Recorded Thursday: 240,690
Total: $6,724,769
Last year to date: $6,285,241


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cassandra Bogen, left, with her children, Twanysha, 15, and Amir, 5, playing at the family's piano in their apartment in Jamaica, Queens. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (87%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); DIABETES (67%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (64%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN OF GREATER NEW YORK INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Community Service Society of New York

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



329 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Newark's Public Schools: The Path to Improvement

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''2 Miles in Newark That Run From Long Decline to Rebirth'' (''The Hard Part'' series, front page, Jan. 5), about the prospects for economic redevelopment in Newark: 
 You note that ''the public school system is in shambles'' and that any new businesses Mayor Cory A. Booker may bring in ''will find a largely unskilled work force.'' What is the evidence for such an extreme characterization of Newark's schools?
 Surely they are seriously challenged, and everyone should want them to perform better. But the reality is that in recent years, the public schools in Newark have made modest improvements in attendance and graduation rates, achieved higher scores on statewide tests in the elementary grades, and upgraded teacher training programs. 
 Is it impossible for outsiders to accept that the Newark schools can improve? Or is it that the voucher advocates and state officials who want to cut education spending have an interest in promoting the notion that no change is possible? 
 Your negative characterization of the public schools in Newark is unfair and makes the road to improvement even more difficult.

Robert Curvin
Newark, Jan. 5, 2007

The writer is an urban policy consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TEACHER EDUCATION (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (71%); GRADUATION RATES (71%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Tests and Testing; Absenteeism

PERSON: Robert Curvin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Newark (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



330 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Refugees Find Sanctuary in Sweden 

BYLINE: By IVAR EKMAN

DATELINE: SODERTALJE, Sweden 

 BODY:
Former residents of Baghdad living in this calm Swedish town know why they left. ''Iraq is finished,'' said Taghreed Ewas, 34, a chemical engineer who fled last year after she received several death threats and narrowly escaped a kidnapping. 
 As they flee the mayhem of their homeland, Iraqis have swarmed into neighboring countries in the Middle East by the hundreds of thousands. But they are also increasingly coming to Europe, especially Sweden, one indication of how the war in Iraq is now beginning to have serious consequences for countries far beyond its borders. 
 Last year, 8,951 Iraqis applied for asylum in Sweden, up from 2,330 in 2005. Of those, almost 3,000 arrived in November and December. Those choosing this relatively small country of nine million people represent nearly half of the Iraqi refugees arriving in Europe and surpass by far the number admitted to the United States each year.
 ''We don't use words like flood, but it's clear that it's a very large increase,'' said Krister Isaksson, a forecast analyst at the Swedish Migration Board. ''We see no reasons why it would slow down. Instead we believe it might continue to increase.''
 Ms. Ewas, who fled with the help of smugglers through northern Iraq and Turkey, leaving much of her family behind, has little hope of returning to Iraq. ''Every day there is worse than the day before,'' she said at an immigrant reception center here.
 The mass exodus of Iraqis spawned by the deteriorating security situation at home is having the most extreme effect on Iraq's neighbors. The United Nations refugee agency estimates that 500,000 to 1 million displaced Iraqis are in Syria; up to 700,000 in Jordan; 20,000 to 80,000 in Egypt; and up to 40,000 in Lebanon.
 But the agency has begun warning that the crisis is spreading beyond the Middle East. In late December, it issued an advisory to governments recommending that asylum seekers from southern and central Iraq ''be favorably considered as refugees under the 1951 Refugee Convention.''
 ''People have been optimistic, hoping that the situation would get better,'' said Paal Aarsaether, the agency's spokesman for the Nordic countries. ''But now the international community has realized that this has to be dealt with.''
 Sweden's relatively liberal asylum laws and immigration regulations have made it by far the most attractive destination in Europe for Iraqi refugees, Ms. Isaksson said. Of the 16,261 Iraqis who applied for asylum in Western Europe from January to November last year, about 45 percent came to Sweden. In November, when 1,413 arrived here, only 13 applied in France, 65 in Denmark and 230 in Germany.
 ''We give Iraqis residence permits to an extent that isn't done in the rest of Europe,'' Ms. Isaksson said. Unlike countries that require language knowledge or economic guarantees, she said, citing Denmark and the Netherlands, ''we don't put many demands on immigrants.''
 Another factor is that more than 80,000 Iraqis already live in Sweden, forming the country's second largest immigrant group, after Finns. Many refugees come because they have relatives here.
 Sodertalje, a scenic industrial town about 20 miles southwest of Stockholm, is home not just to the truckmaker Scania, which has its main factory here, but also to a thriving and growing population of Iraqis, most of them Christians. Ms. Ewas chose Sodertalje because her brother lives here.
 The rapid increase in Iraqi immigrants is having an impact on the communities where they settle. At Sodertalje's immigrant reception center, a converted factory building where refugees and other immigrants come to register with the local authorities, the situation borders on chaotic, said Catharina Helling, the center's director.
 ''We are feeling the strain,'' Ms. Helling said, noting that the center's staff has increased to 25 from 8 a year ago. She said that the municipality is having problems recruiting Swedish-language teachers. In December, 131 new immigrants registered at the center, all of them Iraqis.
 ''This doesn't happen without pain,'' Ms. Helling said.
 Those who arrive also increasingly bring memories of truly harrowing experiences from the chaos in Iraq. The center has hired two staff members to give the refugees counseling, but Ms. Helling admits that this is not enough given the help and understanding many Iraqi refugees need.
 One woman who stopped in at the center this week was Nooralhuda, 63, who arrived in Sodertalje in late 2005. She declined to give her last name because, she said, she is still ''living in fear.'' She left Baghdad after her daughter and three young granddaughters were kidnapped. A few days after their disappearance she was attacked in her home, but survived, and her neighbors persuaded her to flee. She now lives with her son and his family here in Sodertalje.
 Nooralhuda said she had not given up hope that her daughter and granddaughters might turn up alive. She often calls her neighbors to ask if they have heard something, she said.
 ''For Iraq, there is no hope,'' she said. ''For me, my wish is that I get word that my daughter and granddaughters are alive, and that I can help them to come here, to Sweden.''


GRAPHIC: Maps of Sweden highlighting the location of Sodertalje: Sodertalje has a thriving population of mostly Christian Iraqis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); SMUGGLING (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Asylum (Political); Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: Ivar Ekman

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); SWEDEN (97%); EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JORDAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (90%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (72%); DENMARK (72%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Iraq; Sweden; Syria; Jordan; Egypt; Lebanon; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



331 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: In This Turn at the Top, Democrats Seek the Middle on Social Issues

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The promise may not outlast their political honeymoon, but Democratic Congressional leaders say they are committed to governing from the center, and not just on bread-and-butter issues like raising the minimum wage or increasing aid for education. They also hope to bring that philosophy to bear on some of the most divisive social issues in politics, like abortion.
 In their first days in session, Senate Democratic leaders reintroduced a bill that they said was indicative of their new approach: the Prevention First Act, which seeks to reduce the number of abortions by expanding access to birth control, family planning and sex education.
 In the House last week, Democrats showcased a vote on expanding federal financing for embryonic stem cell research, which, despite fierce opposition from many conservatives, has won bipartisan support among lawmakers -- and voters -- who are otherwise divided on abortion. 
 The mantra, for many Democrats, is the search for common ground. On gay rights, lawmakers and advocates said the most likely legislation in the new Congress would focus on hate crimes and employment discrimination, issues expected to be much less polarizing than the debate over same-sex marriage that was front and center in the Republican Congress. 
 ''I don't think the American people get mad if you say a woman shouldn't get fired from her job because she's a lesbian,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 Conservatives are skeptical that such a search for common ground is much more than a shift in tactics.
 ''I can tell you what I expect,'' said Douglas Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee. ''I think the Democratic leadership will seek to advance the policy agenda of the hardcore groups but do so under the cover of deceptive rhetorical campaigns.''
 Whatever the Democrats do, these issues retain their power to divide. Monday is the 34th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision recognizing a constitutional right to abortion; it will highlight anew, with a day of marches and protests, the fundamental question of abortion's legality.
 But the Democrats' moves toward consensus-building on issues that often resist consensus reflect their effort to adjust to a new political reality. Their majority is slimmer than it was the last time they were in power, especially in the Senate. The country, some pollsters say, has grown more conservative on abortion and other social issues. 
 And conservatives, by controlling which legislation came to the floor, succeeded in defining the debate over social issues for more than a decade, through votes on same-sex marriage and the procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion, in ways that highlighted the political limits of liberalism.
 One measure of how the legislative debate has shifted is that the last time the Democrats were in power, one of the biggest abortion fights was over whether abortions should be covered in the benefit package guaranteed under the Clinton administration's national health insurance plan, which eventually collapsed. Abortion rights leaders focus on far more modest goals today. 
 In the past 12 years, Democratic strategists say they have learned some hard lessons. Many said they were dismayed to see the religion gap after the 2004 election, with the Republicans' overwhelming strength among churchgoers and the widespread perception that Democrats were a secular party insensitive to issues of values. 
 Since then, party leaders say, they have tried hard to connect with those voters, to convince them that, as Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said, ''We are not a bunch of libertines who want to see the superego of society disappear.'' Some of the new, prominent Democrats in Congress, like Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, are social conservatives, recruited and cited by Democratic leaders as evidence of the party's diversity.
 Over the past two years, Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, formerly the caucus chairman, now the majority whip, has led a ''faith working group'' in the House in an effort, Mr. Clyburn said, to get members ''more comfortable with these issues and more connected with values voters.''
 Part of this effort involved broadening the definition of values-related issues, he said, to include economic issues like raising the minimum wage, assisting low-income children with health insurance and shoring up Social Security. 
 ''That's Old Testament Bible, taking care of widows and orphans,'' Mr. Clyburn said.
 Some House Democrats said they had also learned to be more open about their own religious life.
 ''We, for a very long time, left the definition of ourselves as Democrats to others,'' said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, an abortion-rights supporter and one of 55 Catholic Democrats in the House who signed a Catholic Statement of Principles last year, essentially saying that their faith involved more than their position on abortion. ''But I think people finally felt enough. Enough. It's about who we are, where we come from, what our culture and environment has been.''
 Ms. DeLauro is one of the leaders in the House on legislation that would try to reduce the need for abortion and provide economic support to new parents.
 Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, highlighted her Catholicism in her first week in office, with two high-profile church services in Washington. There have been occasional protests from religious conservatives, challenging the rights of Democrats like Mrs. Pelosi to present themselves as both good Christians and supporters of abortion rights. But Democrats did do better among Catholic voters in last year's elections, carrying 55 percent of their vote in House races, compared with 49 percent in 2004. 
 In large part, analysts say, that reflects voters responding to the Democrats on Iraq and the economic agenda, another element of the Democrats' common ground strategy, keeping the debate focused on issues of greatest concern to the voters in the middle. ''Our first focus is on the meat and potatoes issues that affect all Americans,'' Mr. Schumer said.
 Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who advises Congressional leaders, said, ''Most swing voters think that these social issues are issues that both sides love to have fights over, but that they don't really have a stake in.''
 In fact, Democrats, like Republicans, have long had to fight the notion that they are in thrall to the advocacy groups because of these hot-button issues. Republicans clearly took a dip in the polls after their intervention in the right-to-die case of Terri Schiavo, and many strategists say their intense pursuit of a ban on same-sex marriage and other conservative causes ultimately backfired, making them seem out of touch.
 Democrats, after 12 years in the wilderness, say they are not likely to repeat those mistakes. But as Mr. Johnson of the right to life committee and other skeptics note, the true test of the Democrats' common ground campaign may not come until there is a major court fight, especially a vacancy on the Supreme Court. When the fundamental debate over the extent of abortion rights is front and center, common ground will be hard to find.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Representatives Nancy Pelosi of California, House speaker, and James E. Clyburn of South Carolina have been open about their religion. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press)
 Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, a social conservative, was recruited by Democrats and has been cited as evidence of the party's diversity. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated Press)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ABORTION (91%); SEX EDUCATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (54%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Elections; Election Issues; Conservatism (US Politics); Law and Legislation; Public Opinion; Abortion; Homosexuality; Marriages; United States Politics and Government; Birth Control and Family Planning; Ethics; Crime and Criminals; Hate Crimes; Labor; Minimum Wage

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



332 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Gadgets as Tyrants

BYLINE: By Xeni Jardin. 
Xeni Jardin is a co-editor of the Web site Boing Boing and a technology contributor for the NPR news program ''Day to Day.''

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
THE 40th annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last week was packed, as usual, with cool new technology. New devices included ultra-thin/ultrawide TV displays, networked entertainment systems and innumerable gadgets that bring music, movies and television to our hands and homes in new ways. 
 But many of these new products limit our freedom to use and share the music, movies and other content they are intended for.
It wasn't always like this. Decades ago, audiocassette and videocassette recorders gave consumers the power to copy audiotapes and videotapes -- a power previously reserved for a locked world of retailers and distributors. 
 The 1984 Betamax case, in which the United States Supreme Court ruled that technology companies aren't liable for copyright infringement when people misuse their products, encouraged still more innovation. There was a flood of gadgets that enabled us to copy things, including personal computers, CD burners and TiVo.
 Since then, the entertainment industry has put pressure on electronics manufacturers to limit the consumer's ability to make copies. And as a result, many of the tens of thousands of products displayed last week on the Vegas expo floor, as attractive and innovative as they are, are designed to restrict our use.
 DVDs are not so easily copied as videotapes. And the two rival formats for high-definition video on disc -- HD-DVD and Blu-ray -- are equipped with even more sophisticated copy-prevention technology.
 Americans pay significant monthly fees to enjoy cable television, but cable companies also tightly control all of their content. They have been at war with electronics companies over the CableCard, a device that allows cable subscribers to record shows without having to buy a special set-top recording box. Cable companies want to make sure that the only way for consumers to get their hands on CableCards is to buy them directly from cable companies. 
 Even children are bothered by the increasing restrictions. One electronics show attendee told me his 12-year-old recently asked him, ''Why do I have to buy my favorite game five times?'' Because the company that made the game wants to profit from each device the user plays it on: Wii, Xbox, PlayStation, Game Boy or phone.
 At this year's show, the president of the Consumer Electronics Association, Gary Shapiro, spoke up for ''digital freedom,'' arguing that tech companies shouldn't need Hollywood's permission when they design a new product. Consumers, he said, should have the right to enjoy the content they buy at whatever time and on whichever device they like. They should also enjoy ''fair use'' to the extent that they can, without asking, copy movies for themselves, or copy a few seconds of a song and post it on a personal Web page.
 If consumer electronics companies won't give us these freedoms, there is a good chance we will find a way to take them for ourselves. Every form of digital rights management ever invented has proved vulnerable. Just weeks ago, a hacker unlocked the supposedly perfect HD-DVD encryption scheme.
 The question is whether, in the face of economic and legal pressure from entertainment companies, next year's Consumer Electronics Show will have anything new at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC (77%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); RETAILERS (73%); COPYRIGHT (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (55%); SUPREME COURTS (54%) Electronics; Consumer Electronics Show; Copyrights; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Motion Pictures; Inventions and Patents

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

PERSON: Xeni Jardin

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



333 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Brian Addison joined Wirestone, Chicago, as a director for brand strategy. He had been United States brand manager for Jim Beam bourbon whiskey at Beam Global Spirits and Wine, Deerfield, Ill.
 Amy Beamer, vice president for operations at Pavone, Harrisburg, Pa., was promoted to chief operating officer, a new post, overseeing the offices in Harrisburg and Philadelphia.
Lana Bernstein was named president at the Luxury Branding Agency, Miami, which is being spun off from the Ocean Drive Media Group. Ms. Bernstein will also continue as vice president for public relations at Ocean Drive Media. Initial clients of the new agency include Gulfstream Park.
 Todd Bryce joined the Auburn Hills, Mich., office of the Spar Group as senior vice president for customer and retail operations, a new post. He has spent 14 years in retail services at companies like Acosta Sales and Marketing, Lombard, Ill., and MCG Retail, Chalfont, Pa. 
 Celebrity Cruises, Miami, part of Royal Caribbean, chose Element 79, Chicago, part of the Omnicom Group, as its creative agency. The assignment, with spending estimated at $20 million, had been handled for five years by Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas. Arnold continues to work on ads for the Royal Caribbean brand. 
 Conde Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, signed multiyear agreements to be supplied with data by units of the VNU Group: Nielsen Monitor-Plus, the advertising data division of Nielsen Media Research, and the Nielsen Media Research national television ratings service. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 Michael Doebler is transferring to the Charlotte, N.C., office of Eric Mower & Associates to become an account supervisor there, from the agency's Rochester, N.Y., office, where he had specialized in tasks like strategic planning and media relations.
 Barbara Friedsam, associate director for information architecture in the interactive marketing group at Mullen, Wenham, Mass., was named the agency's first user experience planner, part of a new experience planning discipline at the Mullen brand planning group that will be focused on how consumers interact with digital media. Mullen is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Ronan Gardiner and Joyce Parente were promoted to new posts at Men's Health magazine, New York, part of Rodale. Mr. Gardiner was promoted to associate publisher for advertising from advertising director. Ms. Parente was promoted to associate publisher for marketing from director for marketing and creative services.
 Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, closed a unit, the Consumer Experience Practice, formed last year, and laid off its estimated 10 employees. The duties of the unit, which specialized in research into the changing media landscape, are expected to be absorbed by individual Interpublic media agencies like Initiative and Universal McCann.
 Marcia Kline joined Esquire magazine, New York, as associate publisher for advertising. She succeeds Jeffrey Ahl, who left, the magazine said. Ms. Kline had been publisher at Style.com and Men.Style.com, part of CondeNet, the interactive division of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications. Esquire is owned by the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation.
 Kenneth Krimstein joined Partners & Jeary, New York, a member of the Partners Group, as partner and creative director, a new post. He had been co-creative director at Seiter & Miller, New York.
 Magazine advertising pages fell 0.1 percent in 2006 from 20005, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, New York, and for December, ad pages fell 2.2 percent from December 2005. For the full year, the bureau reported, the top three categories by ad pages were apparel and accessories, automotive, and toiletries and cosmetics.
 Elizabeth Mahoney joined Elle Decor magazine, New York, as marketing director. She succeeds Naomi Cooper, who left, the magazine said. Ms. Mahoney had most recently been director for promotion services at the Conde Nast Bridal Group, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications. Elle Decor is part of Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., a unit of the Lagardere Active Media division of Lagardere.
 Pearle Vision, Cincinnati, part of Luxottica, named Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas, to handle its creative account, which had been at Stern Advertising, Columbus, Ohio. Spending was estimated at $12 million.
 Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, consolidated the global creative assignment for the Clairol Herbal Essences hair-care line by shifting the North American account, with spending estimated at $50 million, from the Kaplan Thaler Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, to Leo Burnett Worldwide, Chicago, also part of Publicis, which handles the brand outside North America. Kaplan Thaler continues to create campaigns for Procter brands like Infusium and Swiffer.
 Right Media, New York, which operates the Right Media Exchange for interactive advertising, hired two executives for new posts. One, Denise Colella, becomes vice president for international operations; she had most recently been vice president for product operations at Blackfoot, New York. The other, Chris Mahl, becomes vice president for sales; he had most recently been senior vice president for sales at Salesforce.com, New York.
 Lee Rubenstein joined TBA Global, Los Angeles, as president and chief operating officer. He succeeds Gene Cobuzzi, who left to pursue other interests, the agency said. Mr. Rubenstein had been president at Citigate Broadstreet, Boston, part of the Incepta Group.
 Paul Santello, senior vice president and managing director of the Los Angeles office of Carat Fusion, was promoted to a new post, executive vice president and Western regional managing director, overseeing the Carat Fusion offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco. The promotion is part of a reorganization that also includes the naming of two other executives to new posts as general managers, reporting to Mr. Santello. One is John Cate, vice president and national media director, who becomes senior vice president and general manager of the San Francisco office. The other is Michael Soh, vice president for integrated media in the Los Angeles office, who becomes general manager of that office. Carat Fusion is part of the Isobar division of the Aegis Group.
 Chris Shumaker joined Publicis USA, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, as chief marketing officer, a new post. He had most recently been executive vice president and worldwide chief growth officer at Foote Cone & Belding, New York, now part of the Draft FCB division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 TNS Media Intelligence, New York, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres, predicted that advertising spending in the United States for 2007 would grow a ''tepid'' 2.6 percent from 2006. That growth compares with estimated growth in ad spending of 3.8 percent in 2006 from 2005. The 2.6 percent figure would represent the smallest growth in ad spending as estimated by TNS since the advertising, marketing and media industries emerged from a recession in 2001.
 Tom Trenta joined Egg Strategy, Boulder, Colo., to lead the agency's new office in Chicago. Mr. Trenta had been vice president and account planning director at Draft FCB, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Dan Ventura, vice president for creative services at KempGoldberg, Portland, Me., was promoted to partner, joining three other partners at the agency: Pam Boudreau-Kemp, David Goldberg and Alex Kemp.
 Jocelyn Wong joined Jumpstart Automotive Media, San Francisco, in a new post, West Coast sales manager, based in Los Angeles. She had been an account executive at IGN/Fox Interactive Media, Culver City, Calif., part of the News Corporation. 
 Working Mother Media, New York, acquired substantially all the assets of the Public Affairs Group, Washington, including the Business Women's Network division, the Diversity Best Practices division and the Best Practices in Corporate Communications division. The operations were acquired by Working Mother Media from iVillage, now part of the NBC Universal division of the General Electric Company. Financial terms were not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (92%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (75%); MEN (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BEAM GLOBAL SPIRITS & WINE INC (93%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (63%); ACOSTA SALES & MARKETING CO (56%); SPAR HANDELSGESELLSCHAFT MBH (56%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (55%); HAVAS SA (55%); THE NIELSEN CO BV (54%); ERIC MOWER & ASSOCIATES INC (54%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); HAV (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (93%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (56%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



334 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Nascar Braces for Foreign Competition

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Toyota teams testing their Camrys at Daytona International Speedway this month are inspiring anticipation and angst as Nascar's Nextel Cup season approaches.
 Toyota will be the first foreign brand to compete in stock-car racing's premier series since Jaguar in the 1950s, and it is making its push in the same year it expects to challenge General Motors for the status as the world's biggest automaker.
Engineers at Toyota Racing Development, a competition division that builds engines and provides engineering support, have been working for more than a year for this moment. Their mere presence here, however, is making some uneasy. While this Japanese automaker scrambles to prepare its Camrys and build its race shops for the Nextel Cup circuit, competitors are accusing the company of raiding teams for talent and raising the costs of operation by offering dramatically higher salaries.
 It is a departure from the universal welcome bestowed upon Dodge when it announced it was re-entering the Cup series in 2001 after a 16-year absence. Its parent company, DaimlerChrysler, was based in Germany, but Dodge was viewed as an American-born brand. 
 ''People always fear the unknown,'' said Ty Norris, general manager at Michael Waltrip Racing, a new three-car team that will race in Toyotas with the drivers Michael Waltrip, Dale Jarrett and David Reutimann. ''It's a new thing to be concerned about.''
 Earlier this month, a half-dozen Camrys rolled onto the pavement at Daytona International Speedway to take their first laps as full-fledged Nextel Cup competitors. The speeds soared and dipped during the annual preseason tests representing the unofficial beginning of the 2007 season. The Daytona 500 is scheduled to be run here Feb 18.
 Toyota entered Nascar competition through the Craftsman Truck Series in 2004. Since announcing a year ago that it would join the Nextel Cup competition, the company has prompted a debate in this insular sport over what is considered American-made in today's global economy. As Toyota drivers are quick to point out, Camrys are built in the United States, the Ford Fusion is produced in Mexico and Chevrolet Monte Carlo comes from Canada.
 ''If you're going to argue with me about not being American,'' Jarrett told reporters this month, ''check and see that TV you're watching was made in the United States that you're watching our great races on.''
 One fear is that Toyota will spend its way to domination in the sport, raising costs for everybody and perhaps eventually running off an ailing domestic manufacturer. Officials at Ford, which has struggled financially while sales of Toyota's have gained greater share in the United States, have been most vocal in their criticism. 
 Dan Davis, director of Ford Racing Technology, said his manufacturer's Nascar operation is financially sound. But he said Toyota's spending spree in acquiring crew chiefs, drivers, engineers, tire changers and other support personnel has affected his teams. That includes Robert Yates Racing, which lost Jarrett and his UPS sponsorship.
 ''I think they have been predators, and people would say that might be extremely negative,'' Davis said. ''I would say that in the business world, people are predators. That's how you get things done. When anything new comes in with a lot of resources, then those entities are going to try to acquire the best people, the best equipment, the best that they can get. That's a bit predatory to me. And if you pay people more money than they were getting and you entice them other ways, in a way that's more than normal, then it's a bit predatory.''
 Team Red Bull has been accused of paying 200 to 300 percent more to hire John Probst, a top Ford engineer. Davis said he heard that Michael Waltrip Racing came up with more than $20 million to lure Jarrett, the 1999 Cup points champion and a favorite among longtime Southern race fans, away from the Yates team. Salaries are a closely held secret throughout Nascar, and Michael Waltrip Racing officials have denied those figures.
 Davis said he voiced his concerns privately with Nascar. So far, Nascar officials say they see this as business as usual in a sport in which teams openly raid competitors. Earlier this month, for instance, Roush Racing hired the crew chief Larry Carter away from Michael Waltrip Racing.
 ''We hear just like everybody else,'' Robin Pemberton, Nascar's vice president for competition, said in a telephone interview. ''We don't get into the book work of anybody. We don't know what people are paying. It runs in cycles. When you have new teams coming into the series, you're going to have to do something to ramp up.''
 Still, Toyota has yet to compete in its first points race, and it is already on the defensive.
 ''We're not in the business of writing checks,'' Lee White, the senior vice president and general manager for Toyota Racing Development, said last month in an office in High Point, N.C. ''People go out and say, 'Oh, Michael Waltrip hired Dale Jarrett, and all that money had to come from somewhere, had to come from Toyota's deep pockets.' '' 
 White added: ''I would appreciate if Dan and some of those guys would get their facts straight. But really, the things that they say are really not about the facts, apparently. They're defensive about their own program, and it's easier to heave criticism over the fence at T.R.D. and Toyota. That's just the way it is. We're O.K. with that. We don't expect everyone to endorse us or be a big fan. We'll earn our stripes on the racetrack.''
 That is the overriding focus as the Daytona 500 approaches. A countdown clock hangs in the California headquarters of Toyota Racing Development, where engines are being built for some of Toyota's teams. A similar clock is on a wall at the Team Red Bull race shop in Mooresville, N.C., a second-by-second reminder that time is running out. 
 ''Sometimes we have looked at it and said, 'Oh, my God,' said Marty Gaunt, the team's general manager. Team Red Bull's drivers, Brian Vickers and A. J. Allmendinger, will race in Camrys this year.
 Gaunt's race shop is populated by construction workers, mechanics, fabricators and others. The shop is being built at the same time cars are being finished: While the dry wall goes up, the sheet metal goes on.
 It is the same at Michael Waltrip Racing in nearby Cornelius, N.C., where the shop is also still under construction. 
 ''I guess we're a little bit numb to what is really a panic and what is just everyday business,'' Norris said. ''Some of these things, if it was maybe with a normal team, they would be spinning into the core of the earth crazy worried about it.''
 About the only smooth transition has come in High Point, where Bill Davis Racing, which switched from Dodge, is the only established team to join Toyota this year, with the drivers Dave Blaney and Jeremy Mayfield.
 Jarrett and Blaney are the only Toyota drivers automatically guaranteed to make the field for the Daytona 500 because of Nascar's rules involving past performance. The others will have to race their way into the handful of available spots in the 43-car field while qualifying against the deepest, most fully funded, pool of competitors ever for the Nextel Cup. 
 When Toyota joined the Craftsman Truck series in 2004, it posted a modest four victories. In 2006, the manufacturer won a series-best 12 of 25 events and captured its first championship with the driver Todd Bodine.
 Given all the criticism of Toyota, would it be easier for the company to make a small splash in its Nextel Cup debut?
 ''Oh,there's no question,'' White said. ''Our company's way is to just slide in under the radar.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dale Jarrett will race in a Toyota this season and the car maker's logo will join other icnoic brands at Daytona. (Photo by Robert Padgett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NASCAR RACING (91%); AUTO RACING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); LAPS AS (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); ISCA (NASDAQ) (85%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (85%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (85%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



335 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: King Day in Atlanta, 'the One Without Mrs. King'

BYLINE: By BRENDA GOODMAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
Politicians, religious leaders and relatives of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gathered Monday in the chapel that was his spiritual home to celebrate his birthday, but for the first time, they did so without the presence of his widow, Coretta Scott King, who died last year at 78. 
 Dr. King's older sister, Christine King Farris, conducted the service in the place of her sister-in-law and thanked all for being present ''on this special occasion, the one without Mrs. King.''
Tributes to her were nearly as plentiful as those to Dr. King; and choral music, a special love for Mrs. King, who was a trained singer, played a large role in this year's service.
 ''The 39th annual commemorative service is the first time we have gathered on my uncle's birthday without the presence of our rock, our spiritual guide, our dear founder, Coretta Scott King,'' said Isaac Newton Farris Jr., a nephew of Dr. King.
 Many of the thousands who lined the streets around Ebenezer Baptist Church to watch a parade and peace march that followed the service said they were inspired to attend this year's celebration as much because of Mrs. King's legacy as her husband's.
 ''I wanted to find out if it had the same spirit as it had in years past,'' said Geneva Vanderhorst, 52, of Marietta, Ga. ''And it does. This whole city has picked up her mantle.''
 Hundreds of visitors squeezed into the wood pews in the church on Auburn Avenue, where Dr. King, his father and grandfather preached, with hundreds more listening from a newer sanctuary built across the street. Thousands also watched the proceedings on a live, locally televised broadcast.
 Against the backdrop of an escalating war in Iraq and increasing economic disparity in the United States, many who spoke during the ceremony used Dr. King's pulpit to call for a return to the principles of social justice and nonviolence that defined the civil rights leader's life.
 ''Millions can't find jobs, have no health insurance and struggle to make ends meet, working minimum-wage jobs,'' said Mayor Shirley Franklin of Atlanta. ''What's going on?'' she asked, invoking the title of the Marvin Gaye song.
 The Rev. T. DeWitt Smith, president of the Progressive National Baptist Convention, said, ''When we fight a war for oil and not for democracy, we are in trouble,'' adding, ''There is no excuse for war.''
 Outside the church, Robert Snead, 6, stood on Auburn Avenue with his brother, Tyriq, 2, and waved a white and blue sign with a dove that read ''Troops Come Home.''
 The boys' mother, Felecia Snead, of Atlanta, said she brought them to the King Day celebration this year because her brother, an officer in the Navy, was about to be sent to Iraq for a second tour of duty.
 ''I wanted them to know about nonviolence,'' Mrs. Snead said. ''I wanted them to know there's an alternative.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Luther King's Birthday was celebrated yesterday across the country with church services, tributes and parades, like this one in Pompano Beach, Fla., where Jazabrus Clark, 9, marched with a portrait of Dr. King. (Photo by Joe Cavaretta/South Florida Sun-Sentinel, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); MUSIC (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); IRAQ WAR (67%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Blacks; Ebenezer Baptist Church (Atlanta)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%) Martin Luther Jr (1929-68) King; Coretta Scott (1927-2006) King; Brenda Goodman

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



336 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Odd Couple Ponder Bid For Tribune 

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANTand LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
They seem an unlikely pair: Eli Broad, the straight-talking billionaire whose art collection and philanthropic efforts to revitalize downtown Los Angeles have put him happily in the public eye, and Ronald W. Burkle, the supermarket mogul, Democratic fund-raiser and F.O.B. (friend of Bill Clinton) who tries -- usually unsuccessfully -- to avoid publicity.
 By tomorrow, the two men will decide whether their unlikely partnership should go forward in serious pursuit of the Tribune Company, owner of two dozen TV stations, the Chicago Cubs and 11 daily newspapers, including The Chicago Tribune, Newsday and -- most important to Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle -- The Los Angeles Times.
 But it is a sign of how unpredictable the ailing newspaper industry has become that as recently as yesterday, two days before the bids are due, the team led by Mr. Burkle and Mr. Broad was still analyzing company data to determine whether it would make an offer. Their deliberations highlight the difficulty Tribune could face in attracting any bid it deems satisfactory. 
 Mr. Burkle and Mr. Broad are being advised by UBS Securities and Frank Biondi, the former chief executive of Universal Studios and Viacom. Lawyers and accountants spent the weekend looking over the financial information made available to them by Tribune and trying to figure out how the financing would work. 
 The Tribune sale has attracted interest largely from private equity players like the Texas Pacific Group, Providence Equity Partners and Thomas H. Lee. David Geffen, the entertainment mogul, has also expressed interest in The Times. Another possible alliance could involve the Chandler family, Tribune's single largest shareholder, joining forces with another bidder, perhaps with Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle, or possibly Goldman Sachs, which is acting as an adviser to the family.
 Any buyer looking to spin off some assets faces a daunting task: selling papers at a time when the future of the media business seems so uncertain. As a result, it is not clear how many or what kind of bids Tribune will receive tomorrow.
 ''You could make the case that trying to sell now is like selling condos in Miami,'' said a Tribune investor who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to criticize management. ''Nobody wants to bid now because everyone thinks the price will be lower next week.''
 At The Times, several reporters have said privately that they prefer the idea of Mr. Geffen as the ultimate owner but that Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle would most likely be preferable to a buyout firm that might cut costs further. Still, reporters and editors are generally nervous about any new buyer, even billionaires who say they want to maintain high quality. 
 ''No gazillionaire got to that place without having sharp elbows and a big agenda,'' said one Times reporter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to offend any potential owner. 
 Exactly what the agendas of Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle might be -- and where their elbows might fly -- is difficult to measure. Neither would comment. Both have expressed interest in owning The Times as a civic duty. But some people who know both men wonder whether they will be able to work together. Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle have very little in common, they say. ''They are both interesting men, but they are from different worlds,'' said Richard Riordan, the former Los Angeles mayor. He has traveled with both men on a yacht leased by Mr. Broad in Italy and Greece. 
 Neither man is part of the traditional Hollywood studio crowd. When asked about the two, several studio executives said they did not know them or did not know them well.
 In those circles, Mr. Burkle, 54, is best known for his friendship with Stephen Bing, the film producer who fathered a child with both the actress Elizabeth Hurley and Kirk Kerkorian's former wife, Lisa. Mr. Burkle is also a political ally of Mr. Clinton and has allowed him to use his jet.
 Mr. Burkle, say friends, strives for an everyman quality. He eschews fancy suits and instead opts to wear blue jeans and a polo shirt. He allows his mansion in Beverly Hills to be used for political fund-raisers and other events, including parties for entertainment executives.
 Mr. Broad, by contrast, has few close friends, although Mayor Riordan said he and Mr. Broad have dinner often and talk weekly. He is more formal, wearing a suit and tie to meetings at his philanthropic foundation and other events.
 Mr. Broad is plainspoken and direct. He made his first fortune with Kaufman and Broad -- now KB Homes -- developing suburbs and his second one with SunAmerica, the financial company he founded that is now part of the American International Group.
 Mr. Broad is a fine art collector and now engaged mostly in civic endeavors. He is also a trustee at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
 Mr. Broad, 73, is older than Mr. Burkle and focused on the kind of legacy he wants to leave behind, said friends who know him. He does have some ties in the entertainment world. In the summer of 2005, Mr. Biondi and his wife, Carol, joined Mr. Broad and his wife, Edythe, on a yacht that visited Greece and stopped in Tel Aviv, where William Friedkin, who is now directing operas, was directing ''Samson and Delilah.'' Mr. Friedkin is married to Sherry Lansing, the former Paramount chairwoman, with whom Mr. Broad is also friendly. 
 Just what their ownership would mean for The Los Angeles Times is unclear. They have said that they believe it is beneficial to have The Times owned by more than a single owner, as Mr. Geffen would be. But beyond that they have given few clues about their strategy.
 And Mr. Burkle recently had a highly publicized run-in with a reporter at The New York Post. After getting no response to his complaints to the Post's owner, Rupert Murdoch, about gossip on the paper's Page Six, Mr. Burkle videotaped a reporter, Jared Paul Stern, in what Mr. Burkle described as an attempt to extort money from him to stop the stories. Mr. Stern was dismissed and is under federal investigation but has not been charged.
 In other ways, Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle have some complementary skills, especially when it comes to unionized employees. While the newsroom of The Times is nonunion, its press operators voted earlier this month to be represented by the Teamsters. Mr. Broad, in running his educational foundations, has publicly battled the teachers' union on issues like merit pay and school governance. Mr. Burkle, on the other hand, has an unusually strong record for working well with the unions. And he is a director of Yahoo, suggesting he has more familiarity with the Internet in an era when newspapers are trying desperately to migrate their content profitably to the Web.
 Barry Munitz, a trustee professor at California State University who also sits on the boards of several of Mr. Broad's foundations and was on the yacht trip in 2005, believes that the two men could work together. ''Ron brings retail and technology skills to the table and Eli has a strong financial network,'' Mr. Munitz said in a telephone interview on Sunday. But those attributes may not be enough for the men to bid.
 One big concern is that buying the Tribune company, then splitting up the assets could mean an enormous tax burden. An executive working on the bid said lawyers and accountants for the two think they are close to working out the parameters.
 There is a possibility, however, though that they will not make any offer or wait to see what the other bids are before making a decision.
 ''They could bid at the last minute,'' said another executive involved in the talks between Mr. Broadand Mr. Burkle. ''But the question is, are people going to be interested in bidding at all?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Los Angeles Times is one of the Tribune's 11 daily newspapers. (Photo by Tim Rue/Bloomberg News)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); BASEBALL (70%); LAWYERS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Finances

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (54%); TPG CAPITAL LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (57%) Tribune Co; Texas Pacific Group; Providence Equity Partners; Lee, Thomas H, Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (91%); ELI BROAD (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%) Eli Broad; Ronald W Burkle; Geraldine Fabrikant; Laura M Holson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



337 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Wants New York to Enter the Stem Cell Race

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Five years ago, the Bush administration decided to severely limit federal financing for embryonic stem cell research, a move that set off vigorous competition among the states to provide support for a research field that many scientists say could bring about major medical advances. 
 New Jersey was first out of the gate, pledging millions of dollars for stem cell research in the state. California raised the stakes with a huge $3 billion bond initiative, and other states followed with ballot initiatives or legislation to give scientists grants or to build research centers. Those efforts, supporters promised, would also bring in new jobs and tax revenue.
But New York -- home to leading research universities, medical centers and biotechnology companies -- has remained absent from the list. Legislative efforts in recent years to direct state money to embryonic stem cell research have stalled, and then fizzled. 
 Now, state lawmakers are preparing to move forward on what would be the most ambitious government-financed stem cell project on the East Coast. 
 In his first address to the Legislature, Gov. Eliot Spitzer called this month for passage of a $2 billion 10-year bond initiative for research and development, at least half of which would be set aside to pay for stem cell research. And the project is being tailored as an economic development effort in the hopes of attracting support from upstate Republican lawmakers.
 Advocates for stem cell research say that if successful, the initiative -- by pledging a sizable investment over a sustained period -- would catapult New York to the forefront of the field. They also say that bringing the state's academic and scientific institutions more into the research mix could have significant ripple effects across the country. 
 ''The real value is that if New York is involved, you suddenly have an ability to make a leap in progress across the country's best minds,'' said David Bluestone, a spokesman for Americans for Stem Cell Therapies and Cures, a national advocacy group. ''You never get advances from one lab in one state. You need this to be happening across all the states with the best research institutions. California can't go it alone.''
 The initiative, a centerpiece of the Spitzer administration's economic development agenda, would have to meet the approval of the State Senate and Assembly before it could go before voters. Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, a former state senator, is to be in charge of shepherding that effort through the Legislature. 
 Besides the bond measure to pay for stem cell research, the administration has proposed a law to ensure the legality of the research within New York State. 
 Polls commissioned by supporters of the embryonic research show that overwhelming majorities of New York voters support state financing for it. But the administration may still face significant hurdles in the Capitol, and beyond. 
 Several times, the Democratic-controlled Assembly has passed legislation to finance embryonic stem cell research and ensure its legality. 
 Similar legislation proposed in the Senate in previous years by two Democrats from Manhattan, Mr. Paterson and Liz Krueger, never made it to the Senate floor, where legislative business is tightly controlled by the Republican majority leader, Senator Joseph L. Bruno. 
 Many members of Mr. Bruno's caucus, however, support such research, especially senators from upstate cities desperate for the public and private investment it could spur. 
 In remarks in Albany last year to advocates of stem cell research, Mr. Bruno said he would support state funds for the research. He and Mr. Spitzer's predecessor, Gov. George E. Pataki, called for an $800 million public-private research fund for research in medical and life sciences, to which the state would contribute about $200 million. But that never came to fruition. 
 Moreover, that proposal did not specifically protect or authorize money for embryonic stem cell research, instead leaving grant decisions to a board appointed by the governor and legislative leaders. 
 ''We thought this approach was responsible and balanced,'' said John McCardle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno. 
 He said the Senate leader would wait until the Spitzer administration produced a formal proposal before taking a position. Mr. McCardle would not say whether Mr. Bruno would specifically support state financing for embryonic stem cell research, but said, ''We're wide open in terms of looking at what the governor will support.''
 In a speech on the campaign trail last year, Mr. Paterson laid out details that the administration hopes will help assuage some voters' moral qualms about the new proposal. The legislation, he told an audience at NewYork Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, would ban reproductive cloning and create an independent review board to devise guidelines for what research could be financed. 
 The grants themselves would be subject to peer review by a new Stem Cell Commission, which would also be responsible for enforcing the research guidelines. Those measures, Mr. Paterson said, would ensure that all embryonic research in New York was ''legal, vital and ethical.''
 Opponents of the research dismiss the precautions as insufficient and say that taxpayer money should go only to research on adult stem cells, which does not require the destruction of embryos. 
 Many scientists say, however, that adult stem cells are of limited value to researchers because they are less able than embryonic stem cells to develop into other kinds of cells, like skin or bone tissue, and do not multiply as readily. 
 The opponents also point to a study published online this month by the journal Nature Biotechnology indicating that some stem cells drawn from amniotic fluid donated by pregnant women could be as potent as embryonic stem cells, a breakthrough that may make the use of embryos unnecessary. 
 A spokeswoman for a group opposed to the Spitzer initiative, Kathleen Gallagher of the New York State Catholic Conference, said: ''We are gravely concerned, and we would oppose such a bond act. We recognize that they say they will ban cloning, but what they're talking about is banning the cloning of live born babies, but funding the cloning of human embryos that will be destroyed for research.'' The conference is the public policy voice of the state's Catholic bishops.
 The stiffest resistance to the initiative, however, may come from voters worried less about the proposal's moral implications than its cost. New York voters have historically been skeptical of bond measures, and according to a memo prepared last year by advocates of embryonic stem cell research, only half of the bond referendums proposed over the previous three decades earned voter approval. 
 Should the Legislature approve a referendum for this year, the measure would also be opposed by the state's Conservative Party and by anti-abortion forces.
 ''The bond issues that are successful tend to be the ones that are very focused on tangible public services,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, a fiscal analyst at the Manhattan Institute, a nonprofit conservative public policy center. ''Bond issues that are soft-focused generally don't do well.'' 
 The stem cell initiative, he said, is ''a mixed bag.'' 
 ''You have someone in office who is about change and fiscal discipline,'' Mr. McMahon said of Mr. Spitzer. ''But you have a state that already has a huge amount of debt.''
 To win support for the initiative from upstate lawmakers, the administration is promoting it as primarily an economic measure. In his speech, Mr. Paterson cited upstate research universities and centers in Albany, Buffalo and Rochester, whose officials have lobbied heavily for more state money for the research.
 ''The best stem cell researchers in the country are in California, Wisconsin and New York,'' said David A. Carmel, a supporter of the research who helped create the Spitzer administration's proposal. ''To have major restrictions on federal funding, and no state funding here -- many talented researchers in New York are disgruntled with this state of affairs.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''State Financing of Stem Cell Research''New York State's proposed $1 billion for stem cell research over 10 years would, if passed, put the state among the top states paying for the research. Here are the current heavy hitters.CaliforniaFINANCING PACKAGE -- $3 billion over 10 yearsUSES -- Capital investment and grantsOTHER ACTION -- Research grants are tied up in litigation
 training grants have begun.New JerseyFINANCING PACKAGE -- $270 millionUSES -- Capital investment and grantsOTHER ACTION -- $5 million in grants was distributed, and state leaders have proposed a $230 million ballot initiative to finance research over seven years.ConnecticutFINANCING PACKAGE -- $100 million over 10 yearsUSES -- GrantsOTHER ACTION -- The first $20 million in grants was distributed in late 2006.MarylandFINANCING PACKAGE -- $15 million in the 2007 fiscal yearUSES -- GrantsOTHER ACTION -- Applications for grants were due Dec. 8, 2006.IllinoisFINANCING PACKAGE -- $15 million over two yearsUSES -- GrantsOTHER ACTION -- State leaders have proposed spending $100 million from the state's tobacco litigation settlement to finance research over a five-year period.(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BONDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ORGAN DONATION (79%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); ETHICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); CITIES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); TRENDS (72%); BALLOTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (60%) Medicine and Health; Transplants; Hospitals; Death and Dying; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Stem Cells; Research; Economic Conditions and Trends; Medicine and Health; Ethics; Fetal Tissue; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Richmond University Medical Center (Staten Island); New York Organ Donor Network

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); DAVID PATERSON (78%) Richard Perez-Pena; Tiffany Gunaratne; Kathleen Atkinson; Nicholas Confessore; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; David A (Lt Gov) IXDE04E-ABBREV. Paterson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area; New York State; New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



338 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Energy Time

 BODY:
Al Hubbard, the economic adviser who's coordinating the administration's energy strategy, recently promised that President Bush would produce ''headlines above the fold that will knock your socks off in terms of our commitment to energy independence.'' Every president since Richard Nixon has talked this way, while every year the country slides further into dependency. Mr. Bush's overpromising has included a forecast that we would all be buying hydrogen-fueled cars in 20 years and his pledge a year ago to rid the country of its addiction to oil. 
 Still, we must hope that Mr. Bush is serious this time, because we simply cannot continue to hold our national security and the health of the planet hostage to our appetite for fossil fuels. 
America's closest allies, and increasingly its governors, know this. Last week, the European Union -- shaken by Russia's threatened shutdown of oil passing through Belarus -- announced a menu of initiatives aimed at reducing Europe's dependence on unreliable suppliers while cutting greenhouse gas emissions with cleaner fuels and new technologies.
 Here at home, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger ordered his regulators in California to require fuel oil companies and refiners to start reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other global-warming gases. The order is expected to help jump-start the production of biofuels and, over time, hydrogen for fuel cell cars. It follows an earlier California directive requiring more fuel-efficient vehicles, and represents an important element in the state's broad plan to cut global-warming emissions from all sources by 25 percent by 2020.
 For its part, Congress is churning out energy bills. But this is a recipe for paralysis unless it observes a few basic guideposts.
 The last thing America needs is another multi-year debate leading to yet another giant bill that offers something for everyone without really changing the way this country produces and uses energy. Senators Harry Reid and Jeff Bingaman have produced the outlines of a bill that could become the template for more specific action. It sets two basic goals: reducing the country's dependency on oil and reducing the risks of global warming. And it focuses on a handful of remedies, including more efficient automobiles, the rapid development of alternative fuels and cleaner ways of producing power.
 Partisanship and posturing must be resisted. Right now, House Democrats are fixated on eliminating unnecessary tax breaks and closing loopholes that favor the oil and gas industry. Fair enough, but that's not an energy policy. The House has been notoriously unenlightened on energy issues, and Nancy Pelosi, the speaker, has some heavy educating to do to make her colleagues full partners in this essential national enterprise. 
 Doing things right will take serious money. In recent days, for instance, Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana and Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Jim Bunning of Kentucky -- any politician, that is, with coal to sell -- have jumped aboard the coal-to-gasoline bandwagon as the answer to dependence on foreign oil. 
 The world has lots of coal, which can indeed be converted to gasoline. But the process releases enormous amounts of carbon, far more than refining oil into gasoline does. Unless we are willing to invest in technologies that can sequester carbon emissions and keep them out of the atmosphere, turning to coal could be a disaster for global warming.
 So far, nobody -- not the coal industry, Congress or the White House -- has displayed much interest in making these investments, just as nobody except for a few states like New York and some plucky private investors has shown much interest in the investments necessary to produce biofuels on a commercial scale. Without them, we're just talking a good game, which is all Mr. Bush did last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (76%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Weather ; Editorials; Global Warming; Energy and Power

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HARRY REID (78%); JEFF BINGAMAN (78%); JIM BUNNING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jeff (Sen) Bingaman; Harry (Sen) Reid

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); BELARUS (73%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



339 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: With New Urgency, U.S. and South Korea Seek Free-Trade Deal 

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
United States and South Korean officials resumed free-trade talks Monday amid growing skepticism that the two governments can narrow their differences before President Bush's authority to move an agreement quickly through Congress expires. 
 Success would give Washington its biggest trade deal since the North American Free Trade Agreement a decade ago, while expanding market opportunities for exporters in both countries.
 About 2,000 police officers in riot gear stood guard around the Shilla Hotel, where the negotiators met for a sixth round of talks since June. Thousands more were dispatched to parks in the city center, where farmers and factory workers planned large protest rallies. Nine lawmakers opposing the talks began a hunger strike in a tent pitched outside the hotel. 
 ''We have made important progress to date, but we still have a lot of work to do,'' said Wendy Cutler, an assistant trade representative and the lead negotiator for the United States. She said she was optimistic that a deal could be concluded before President Bush's special trade negotiation powers, known as ''fast track'' authority, lapsed at the end of June. 
 Under the fast-track mechanism, President Bush can submit an agreement deal to Congress for a straight yes-or-no vote. An agreement would have to go to Washington by the end of March because lawmakers would need to review it before a vote. After President Bush's authority expires, however, the Congress -- now controlled by the Democrats -- can place amendments on the trade deal, crippling its chances of speedy ratification. 
 Thomas Kim, executive director of the Korea Policy Institute, said: ''I don't think it's going to happen. There are too many major concessions that would have to be made on both sides, and too many unknown political variables.'' 
 The talks stalled over United States requests for greater access for American cars, rice and drugs, and over South Korea's demand that Washington change antidumping rules applied to South Korean steel, cars, computer chips and textiles. Seoul also wants goods produced by South Korean factories in North Korea included in the agreement. 
 ''The more important question probably isn't whether they'll make the deadline,'' Mr. Kim said, but whether a trade agreement will be reached at all, ''and if not, how long will it be before the two governments try again.''
 If signed, a free-trade deal would add a measure of success to Mr. Bush's embattled presidency, said Usha Haley, professor of international business and director of the Global Business Center at the University of New Haven. A deal with South Korea is central to Washington's strategy of stemming the loss of economic influence in Asia to China.
 For South Korea, a deal would mean bigger access for its products in its second-largest export market after China. By exposing the South Korean economy to United States rivals, it would also serve as a catalyst for economic reforms, South Korean officials said. 
 South Korea is the United States' seventh-largest trading partner, with bilateral trade topping $74 billion a year. An accord could lift American exports to South Korea by $19 billion, while Korean exporters could expect an additional $10 billion in sales in the United States, according to the United States International Trade Commission. 
 ''President Roh Moo-hyun is now entering his final year in office and wants an agreement and its economic benefits to become the legacy of his otherwise disappointing presidency,'' Ms. Haley said. ''Growth is now a very scarce commodity, so the government needs to secure future growth opportunities for the economy. But his unpopularity is also weighing on the trade deal.''
 Farmers, labor unions and movie workers, all important segments of support for Mr. Roh's liberal Uri Party, have protested the prospect of a trade deal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Seoul, South Korean students protested the free-trade talks with the United States, while farmers and factory workers also planned marches. (Photo by Ahn Young-joon/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) International Trade and World Market; North American Free Trade Agreement

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Choe Sang-Hun

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



340 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Warn of Diminished Earth Studies From Space

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The nation's ability to track retreating polar ice and shifting patterns of drought, rainfall and other environmental changes is being put ''at great risk'' by faltering efforts to replace aging satellite-borne sensors, a panel convened by the country's leading scientific advisory group said.
 By 2010, the number of operating Earth-observing instruments on NASA satellites, most of which are already past their planned lifetimes, is likely to drop by 40 percent, the National Research Council of the National Academies warned in a report posted on the Internet yesterday at www.nas.edu. 
The weakening of these monitoring efforts comes even as many scientists and the Bush administration have been emphasizing their growing importance, both to clarify risks from global warming and natural hazards and to track the condition of forests, fisheries, water and other resources. 
 Several prominent scientists welcomed the report, saying that while the overall tightening of the federal budget played a role in threatening Earth-observing efforts, a significant contributor was also President Bush's recent call for NASA to focus on manned space missions. 
 ''NASA has a mission ordering that starts with the presidential goals -- first of manned flight to Mars, and second, establishing a permanent base on the Moon, and then third to examine Earth, which puts Earth rather far down on the totem pole,'' said F. Sherwood Rowland, an atmospheric chemist at the University of California, Irvine, who shared a Nobel Prize for identifying threats to the ozone layer. 
 In an e-mail statement, John H. Marburger III, President Bush's science adviser and director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, acknowledged that there were many challenges to maintaining and improving Earth-observing systems, but said the administration was committed to keeping them a ''top science priority.''
 The report, ''Earth Science and Applications From Space: National Imperatives for the Next Decade and Beyond,'' proposed spending roughly $3 billion a year in constant 2006 dollars on new instruments and satellite missions through 2020, saying that would satisfy various scientific and societal priorities while holding annual costs around what they were, as a percentage of the economy, in 2000. 
 ''We're trying to present a balanced, affordable program that spans all the earth sciences,'' said Richard A. Anthes, the co-chairman of the committee that wrote the report and the new president of the American Meteorological Society. 
 The report is the latest in a string of findings from such panels pointing to dangers from recent disinvestment in the long-term monitoring of a fast-changing planet.
 ''This is the most critical time in human history, with the population never before so big and with stresses growing on the Earth,'' Dr. Anthes said. ''We just want to get back to the United States being a leader instead of someone you can't count on.'' 
 Satellite-borne instruments, using radar, lasers and other technology, have revolutionized earth and climate science, allowing researchers to accurately and efficiently track parameters like sea level and tiny motions of the Earth from earthquakes, the amount of rain in a cyclone and moisture in air, and the average temperature of various layers of the atmosphere. 
 The committee identified significant gaps in instrumentation or plans for satellites orbiting over the poles, around the Equator, and positioned so that they remain stationary over spots on the rotating Earth. 
 One of the most important aspects of such monitoring is launching new satellites before old ones fail. Without this overlap, it is hard to assemble meaningful long-term records that are sufficiently precise to uncover trends, the report's authors said. 
 The report went beyond discussing ailing hardware and said the White House science policy office should do more to ensure that society and science were benefiting fully from the reams of data flowing from orbiting instruments.
 Senior officials at NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration welcomed the report and said it would be considered as they sought to sustain Earth observations in a time of tight budgets.


GRAPHIC: Photos: USEFUL DATA -- NASA's Quick Scatterometer was launched in 1999 to replace a satellite that lost power. It carries the SeaWinds instrument, which produced these images. (Photos by NASA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); METEOROLOGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (77%); SPACE EXPLORATION (77%); FISHERIES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); DIVESTITURES (50%) Space; Satellites; Telescopes and Observatories; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Weather; Space; Global Warming; Earth; Environment

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Research Council of National Academies; National Academies of Sciences

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (94%); MARS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007



341 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Examining Commerce Bank 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Commerce Bancorp, which calls itself ''America's most convenient bank,'' rattled investors yesterday after it disclosed that federal regulators were investigating the bank's real estate deals with executives. 
 Shares of Commerce fell 8.3 percent, or $2.89, to $31.83, after the bank said the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve were conducting an inquiry.
Commerce has become one of the fastest-growing banks in the nation, thanks in part to its extended branch hours, and has made an aggressive and successful push into New York's crowded banking market. 
 Commerce, based in Cherry Hill, N.J., said, ''The scope of the investigation will include but not be limited to transactions with its officers, directors and related parties, including transactions involving bank premises.'' 
 Investors were unnerved by the announcement, in large part, because ''it was so vague,'' said Meredith Whitney, an analyst with CIBC World Markets. ''It could be the lightest offense or it could be the most severe offense.''
 Bank executives declined to answer questions about the investigation on a conference call with analysts and reporters yesterday. Commerce said it had appointed a committee of independent board members to oversee the investigation.
 Critics have long complained about the bank's business ties with firms that are either owned or controlled by Commerce's chairman and president, Vernon W. Hill II, and his wife, Shirley Hill. 
 Mr. Hill and his family trusts own or are partners in real estate firms that lease property to Commerce for bank branches; the firms earned about $1.9 million in annual rent in 2005. Also, Mrs. Hill runs a firm that designs Commerce branches; she earned $7.5 million from the bank in 2005. That year, Commerce spent $482,000 at Galloway National Golf Club, an 18-hole course near Atlantic City that is owned by Mr. Hill.
 Analysts said the re-emergence of issues that were widely believed to have been resolved is unsettling, because it suggests that regulators have uncovered new problems. 
 ''Many were of the mind-set that the regulatory clouds were behind them, and then all of a sudden, wham, you see this today,'' said Adam Barkstrom, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Company. ''It's befuddling.''
 Mr. Barkstrom, who was once a bank examiner, said it was common for regulators to scrutinize how banks treat loans and other relationships with executives, directors and other insiders.
 Officials at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve declined to comment, citing polices of not discussing individual banks.
 Mr. Hill, 61, founded Commerce in Marlton, N.J., near Philadelphia at the age of 27 soon after he started a commercial real estate business and graduated with an economics degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He has cultivated the image of a maverick in the staid banking industry by bucking the trend toward automation and by publicly belittling the policies and approaches of competitors.
 The company reported yesterday that its assets grew 18 percent in 2006, to $45.27 billion, as deposits rose 18 percent and loans climbed 23 percent. Profits increased 11 percent, to $315.1 million. Commerce added 55 branches last year and said that it expected to add another 65 in 2007, nearly half of them in metropolitan New York. 
 The bank's growth comes as rivals are struggling to increase deposits and profits because short-term interest rates, which determine the cost of money for banks, are higher than long-term rates, which often determine how much money banks can make from loans and investments.
 Mr. Hill, who declined to comment yesterday, has said the company has been forthright in disclosing its business relationships with his family and the transactions were always conducted at an arm's length.
 The company, however, has suggested in previous filings that it would alter how it does business with firms connected to the Hills in response to criticism of the deals. But it is unclear if it has made any significant changes.
 In 2002, for instance, a Commerce spokesman, David Flaherty, told The Record of Bergen County, N.J., referring to Mrs. Hill: ''Our association with her will change. We don't know what that change is going to be yet.'' 
 Mrs. Hill's firm, InterArch, earned $8.1 million in revenue from Commerce in 2002. 
 In 2005, the last year for which the company has provided information, it did $7.5 million in business with Mrs. Hill.
 Commerce has also faced scrutiny for the close ties some of its executives have had with local and state officials in the Northeast. In November, the company said the office of the United States attorney in Philadelphia had informed it that it would not bring charges against the company in a corruption investigation in which two former bank officials and a former treasurer for the city of Philadelphia were convicted of trying to steer municipal business to the bank in exchange for favors.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Bank, based in New Jersey, has assets of $45.3 billion. (Photo by Robert Caplin/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); DEREGULATION (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); GOLF (67%) Banks and Banking; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: TD BANK NA (95%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (62%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%) Commerce Bank

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (58%) Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (76%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



342 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Lease Chief Was Aware Of Oil Error, Report Says

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
A top Interior Department official was told nearly three years ago about a legal blunder that allowed drilling companies to avoid billions of dollars in payments for oil and gas pumped from publicly owned waters, a report by the department's chief independent investigator has found.
 The report, which was sent lawmakers on Tuesday, suggested that Interior officials could have fixed the mistake far more easily if they had taken action when they first recognized it. Oil and gas prices were far lower than they are today. 
The report contradicts statements by the official, Johnnie M. Burton, the director of the department's Minerals Management Service, who told a House hearing last September that she first learned about the royalties problem in January 2006. 
 Confronted by e-mail messages from subordinates from early 2004, the report said, Ms. Burton conceded that she probably had been told earlier, but ''did not remember putting a great deal of thought into the matter.''
 Investigators calculated that the government could have collected an additional $865 million in the last three years alone if officials had told companies drilling in the Gulf of Mexico that they owed all the royalties required on oil and coal extracted from federal waters.
 Unless the leases are changed, administration officials expect the mistake to cost billions of dollars in royalties that drilling companies usually are required to pay the federal government for oil and gas pumped from the gulf. 
 The report is the result of a nine-month investigation by the Interior Department's inspector general in response to questions raised by the Senate Energy Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee. It will be at the center of a hearing Thursday by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and chairman of the Senate Energy Committee.
 And while the report confirms that the original leasing blunders were made under the Clinton administration, it provides new details about the reluctance of the Bush administration to discuss the issue publicly or find a fix for the problem for nearly six years. 
 At issue are more than 1,000 offshore drilling leases for the gulf that the Interior Department signed in 1998 and 1999, during the Clinton administration.
 The government offered drillers lucrative ''royalty relief,'' a holiday from the standard 12 percent royalty, as an incentive to increase exploration and production in waters that were thousands of feet deep.
 But as a result of what investigators believe was bureaucratic bumbling, the leases for 1998 and 1999 omitted a standard escape clause that rescinded the special inducements if oil prices climbed above $34 a barrel.
 Midlevel officials at Interior spotted the omission in 2000, and quietly made sure to include the escape clause in all subsequent leases. But no one tried to fix the leases that had already been signed, and almost no one talked about them until oil prices started to climb above $34 a barrel in 2004.
 At a hearing of the House Government Reform Committee last September, Ms. Burton testified that she had first learned about the problem in late 2005 or January 2006. Ms. Burton and other senior officials publicly confirmed the error in February 2006, after The New York Times published an article about it.
 But investigators have unearthed a series of e-mail messages by officials working under Ms. Burton in March 2004. At the time, energy prices had recently climbed above the thresholds that were supposed to stop the incentives, and oil companies were pressing the Interior Department to confirm how it would treat the leases from 1998 and 1999.
 Marshall Rose, chief economist for the Minerals Management Service, wrote the agency's associate director at the time, Thomas Readinger, that the decision had to be made by the ''directorate'' -- Ms. Burton and her top deputies.
 Mr. Rose told Mr. Readinger that he believed the leases entitled companies to the incentive regardless of oil price levels, and that he had told his own subordinates that ''you and the director were aware of the need to make a decision on this matter.'' Mr. Readinger, who retired last year, responded to Mr. Rose a few hours later by writing, ''Sounds like we have an answer. Let's go with it.''
 According to the report, Mr. Readinger told investigators ''he was sure'' that he had discussed the issue with Ms. Burton.
 Ms. Burton, after seeing the e-mail messages from her subordinates and with Mr. Readinger's recollections, told the investigators that Mr. Readinger ''must have mentioned the issue to her at that time,'' the report said.
 In a written statement Tuesday night, the Minerals Management Service said Ms. Burton did not deny but could not remember being told about the mistake three years ago.
 ''Director Burton responded that if an employee said that to her, it was likely true but she could not remember the event nor the circumstances,'' the agency said.
 Walter Cruickshank, Ms. Burton's deputy director, originally told investigators he had first learned about the problem around January 2006. But investigators found an e-mail message by Mr. Cruickshank from 2000 in which he said the provisions had been ''inadvertently omitted'' from leases in 1998 and 1999.
 Shown his own messages, Mr. Cruickshank told investigators that ''he did not remember'' the discussion, but he was ''probably in the room during the meeting'' at which it took place.
 On Thursday, House Democrats hope to pass a bill that would put a heavy tax on companies that refuse to change their leases and would repeal several other tax breaks and royalty incentives for companies that drill in deep waters.
 The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the bill would increase oil and gas royalties by about $6.3 billion over the next decade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); MINERAL LEASES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Royalties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Property; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (83%) Interior Department; Minerals Management Service 

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (56%) Johnnie M Burton; Renting and Leasing; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



343 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Dismisses Call for an OPEC Meeting

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia's oil minister said yesterday that he saw no reason for OPEC to hold an emergency meeting in response to declining prices, quelling speculation that the cartel would take fresh steps to stem a 16 percent decline in prices since the beginning of the year. 
 OPEC producers like Venezuela and Algeria, worried about falling revenue, have been calling for a meeting to consider additional production cuts ahead of the next scheduled gathering on March 15. 
But Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi minister and OPEC's most authoritative voice, said yesterday that he expected oil prices to rebound once production cuts already adopted take effect Feb. 1. Still, his comments knocked down oil futures by 3.3 percent. 
 Oil prices have dropped by a third since peaking above $77 a barrel in July. Twice last fall, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pledged to pare its output in hopes of stemming the slide, but warmer-than-usual weather in the autumn and winter curbed consumption in the Western hemisphere, swelling stockpiles in developed countries. 
 The slide has accelerated since the beginning of the year, with oil futures contracts shedding $10 a barrel in the last two weeks. The contract for February delivery dropped $1.77, to $51.23 a barrel in New York on Tuesday, its lowest level in 19 months.
 Mr. Naimi, who has steered oil markets with assurance since the late 1990s, seemed confident that prices would not tumble much further as colder weather sets in across the United States. His comments seemed intended to prompt other OPEC members to fulfill their pledges and actually reduce production. 
 ''We took measures in October in Doha and measures in Abuja, and I believe these measures are working well,'' Mr. Naimi told reporters while attending an energy conference in New Delhi, referring to the group's last two meetings in Qatar and Nigeria. ''Do not panic. Actually, there is no reason for a meeting.''
 Hedge funds and other investors have been selling oil contracts in recent months, testing OPEC's resolve at a time of slowing demand, and doubting the cartel's ability to set a floor on prices. 
 Still, some analysts caution that the market would bounce back because of previous OPEC policies to tighten supplies.
 ''The reaction signals well in our view the deepness of the bearish sentiment, with markets more concerned about the lack of further cuts rather than about emerging evidence of actual market tightness,'' according to a note by analysts at Barclays Capital.
 The 12 members of OPEC account for 40 percent of the world's crude oil exports. Angola, which was admitted in December, and Iraq, because of its turmoil, do not adhere to the cartel's production quota system. 
 OPEC members agreed in October to cut overall production by 4 percent, and again in December by an additional 2 percent, to a new ceiling of 25.8 million barrels a day starting Feb. 1. But compliance with the first cut has been uneven.
 According to Bloomberg data, the 10 members that adhere to output quotas pumped 385,000 barrels a day more than their agreed-upon goals in December. Nigeria and Venezuela were the biggest violators, exceeding their targets by a total of 220,000 barrels. Only Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest producer, seems to be actually producing below its quota level of 8.71 million barrels a day. 
 On Monday, Rafael Ramirez, the oil minister of Venezuela, OPEC's fourth-largest supplier, said he would press for additional production cuts of 500,000 barrels a day to bolster sagging prices. The idea was endorsed by Algeria's minister, Chakib Khelil, according to the country's state-run news agency, Algerie Presse Service.
 Adam E. Sieminski, the chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank, said Saudi Arabia wanted other OPEC members to conform to their quotas before talking about lowering the production ceiling again. 
 ''The Saudi view is that the first thing OPEC needs to do is to implement the two cuts they agreed to,'' Mr. Sieminski said. ''If OPEC were to have an emergency meeting now, there would be a temptation on the part of some members to renege on their earlier agreements.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, in India yesterday. Recent calls for OPEC members to cut production in reaction to falling prices have had limited success. Oil prices have dropped by a third since July. (Photo by Sondeep Shankar/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUTURES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Ali (Min) Al-Naimi; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) SAUDI ARABIA (96%); QATAR (92%); NIGERIA (92%); ALGERIA (92%); INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



344 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: What $1.2 Trillion Can Buy 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The human mind isn't very well equipped to make sense of a figure like $1.2 trillion. We don't deal with a trillion of anything in our daily lives, and so when we come across such a big number, it is hard to distinguish it from any other big number. Millions, billions, a trillion -- they all start to sound the same.
 The way to come to grips with $1.2 trillion is to forget about the number itself and think instead about what you could buy with the money. When you do that, a trillion stops sounding anything like millions or billions.
 For starters, $1.2 trillion would pay for an unprecedented public health campaign -- a doubling of cancer research funding, treatment for every American whose diabetes or heart disease is now going unmanaged and a global immunization campaign to save millions of children's lives. 
 Combined, the cost of running those programs for a decade wouldn't use up even half our money pot. So we could then turn to poverty and education, starting with universal preschool for every 3- and 4-year-old child across the country. The city of New Orleans could also receive a huge increase in reconstruction funds. 
 The final big chunk of the money could go to national security. The recommendations of the 9/11 Commission that have not been put in place -- better baggage and cargo screening, stronger measures against nuclear proliferation -- could be enacted. Financing for the war in Afghanistan could be increased to beat back the Taliban's recent gains, and a peacekeeping force could put a stop to the genocide in Darfur.
 All that would be one way to spend $1.2 trillion. Here would be another:
 The war in Iraq.
 In the days before the war almost five years ago, the Pentagon estimated that it would cost about $50 billion. Democratic staff members in Congress largely agreed. 
 Lawrence Lindsey, a White House economic adviser, was a bit more realistic, predicting that the cost could go as high as $200 billion, but President Bush fired him in part for saying so. 
 These estimates probably would have turned out to be too optimistic even if the war had gone well. Throughout history, people have typically underestimated the cost of war, as William Nordhaus, a Yale economist, has pointed out. 
 But the deteriorating situation in Iraq has caused the initial predictions to be off the mark by a scale that is difficult to fathom. The operation itself -- the helicopters, the tanks, the fuel needed to run them, the combat pay for enlisted troops, the salaries of reservists and contractors, the rebuilding of Iraq -- is costing more than $300 million a day, estimates Scott Wallsten, an economist in Washington. 
 That translates into a couple of billion dollars a week and, over the full course of the war, an eventual total of $700 billion in direct spending. 
 The two best-known analyses of the war's costs agree on this figure, but they diverge from there. Linda Bilmes, at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate and former Clinton administration adviser, put a total price tag of more than $2 trillion on the war. They include a number of indirect costs, like the economic stimulus that the war funds would have provided if they had been spent in this country. 
 Mr. Wallsten, who worked with Katrina Kosec, another economist, argues for a figure closer to $1 trillion in today's dollars. My own estimate falls on the conservative side, largely because it focuses on the actual money that Americans would have been able to spend in the absence of a war. I didn't even attempt to put a monetary value on the more than 3,000 American deaths in the war.
 Besides the direct military spending, I'm including the gas tax that the war has effectively imposed on American families (to the benefit of oil-producing countries like Iran, Russia and Saudi Arabia). At the start of 2003, a barrel of oil was selling for $30. Since then, the average price has been about $50. Attributing even $5 of this difference to the conflict adds another $150 billion to the war's price tag, Ms. Bilmes and Mr. Stiglitz say.
 The war has also guaranteed some big future expenses. Replacing the hardware used in Iraq and otherwise getting the United States military back into its prewar fighting shape could cost $100 billion. And if this war's veterans receive disability payments and medical care at the same rate as veterans of the first gulf war, their health costs will add up to $250 billion. If the disability rate matches Vietnam's, the number climbs higher. Either way, Ms. Bilmes says, ''It's like a miniature Medicare.'' 
 In economic terms, you can think of these medical costs as the difference between how productive the soldiers would have been as, say, computer programmers or firefighters and how productive they will be as wounded veterans. In human terms, you can think of soldiers like Jason Poole, a young corporal profiled in The New York Times last year. Before the war, he had planned to be a teacher. After being hit by a roadside bomb in 2004, he spent hundreds of hours learning to walk and talk again, and he now splits his time between a community college and a hospital in Northern California.
 Whatever number you use for the war's total cost, it will tower over costs that normally seem prohibitive. Right now, including everything, the war is costing about $200 billion a year.
 Treating heart disease and diabetes, by contrast, would probably cost about $50 billion a year. The remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations -- held up in Congress partly because of their cost -- might cost somewhat less. Universal preschool would be $35 billion. In Afghanistan, $10 billion could make a real difference. At the National Cancer Institute, annual budget is about $6 billion. 
 ''This war has skewed our thinking about resources,'' said Mr. Wallsten, a senior fellow at the Progress and Freedom Foundation, a conservative-leaning research group. ''In the context of the war, $20 billion is nothing.''
 As it happens, $20 billion is not a bad ballpark estimate for the added cost of Mr. Bush's planned surge in troops. By itself, of course, that price tag doesn't mean the surge is a bad idea. If it offers the best chance to stabilize Iraq, then it may well be the right option.
 But the standard shouldn't simply be whether a surge is better than the most popular alternative -- a far-less-expensive political strategy that includes getting tough with the Iraqi government. The standard should be whether the surge would be better than the political strategy plus whatever else might be accomplished with the $20 billion.
 This time, it would be nice to have that discussion before the troops reach Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Putting the Annual Cost of War in Perspective''Iraq war*: Annually $200 billionUniversal health care -- For all people in the U.S. without it: $100 billionUniversal preschool -- Half-days for 3-year olds and full-days for 4-year olds: $35 billionSecurity -- Carrying outthe 9/11 Commission Recommendations: $10 billionCancer research -- Annual budget: $6 billionImmunizationsFor the world's children against measles, whooping cough, tetanus, tuberculosis, polio and diphtheria: $0.6 billionAll costs are annual.*Includes $120 billion in annual military expenses plus the future cost of veteran medical care and disability payments, the cost of rebuilding the military after the war, and the increased cost of oil as a result of the war.(Sources by Scott Wallsten and Katrina Kosec [war costs]
Linda Bilmes and Joseph Stiglitz [war costs]
Kaiser Family Foundation [health insurance]
Jane Waldfogel, Columbia University School of Social Work [preschool]
National Cancer Institute [cancer research]
 Unicef [immunizations])(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); IRAQ WAR (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); HISTORY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CANCER (74%); CHILDREN (73%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); ONCOLOGY (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); TALIBAN (69%); DIABETES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); TERRORISM (65%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (53%); HELICOPTERS (50%); GENOCIDE (50%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



345 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Record Year Followed by Record Deal

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
The sale of the 41-story skyscraper at 666 Fifth Avenue for $1.8 billion -- a record price for an office building in Manhattan -- closed last week, and the deal is symbolic of the red-hot demand from big investors for commercial properties. 
 In 2006, office buildings purchased by investors in New York City reached nearly $30 billion, double the amount that investors paid just two years earlier. Class A offices, with the most modern and high-tech space, accounted for 37 percent of the dollar amount of the sales in 2006. 
 These figures -- compiled by Cushman & Wakefield, which tracks sales of $10 million or more -- do not include 666 Fifth Avenue, which is between 52nd and 53rd Streets. That purchase by Kushner Properties from Tishman Speyer will be counted in 2007. 
 ''I've never seen a market like this in 25 years,'' said Peter Hauspurg, co-founder and chairman of Eastern Consolidated, a real estate investment firm based in New York. ''And it started right back up on Jan. 2. You would think people would relax for a week, but it's been one frenzy after another.''
 Eastern Consolidated -- a moderately sized company compared with large firms like Cushman and CB Richard Ellis -- had its own record-breaking year in 2006, brokering $2 billion in sales. ''Something could come around to derail the momentum,'' Mr. Hauspurg added. ''But nobody sees anything on the horizon.''
 Nearly $20 billion worth of sales are already under contract to close in the first quarter of 2007, indicating that this year will be a record breaker as well. 
 Investors presumably would not be willing to pay astronomical prices unless they expected the buildings to generate reliable income, and it is a fact that rents have soared in recent months. 
 These rent spikes, particularly in the Class A market, are a result of a robust corporate economy and a paucity of new office space in Manhattan, according to brokers and real estate analysts. In the 1960s, '70s and '80s, 55 million to 65 million square feet of office space was added to the New York market during each decade. But in the 1990s, the pace slowed to only 10 million additional square feet, and in the first decade of the 21st century, about 20 million square feet are projected to be added.
 This relatively slow growth in the supply of new buildings and the increasing globalization of real estate -- including an influx of foreign capital as well as more European and Asian companies seeking space -- have increased the value of office buildings in New York, creating a strong investor sales market. Again, 666 Fifth Avenue, whose ground floor retail tenants include Brooks Brothers, is instructive; it sold in 2000 for $518 million, so its value has more than tripled in six years.
 ''The vast majority of properties we see are leased below market rate today,'' meaning that as leases expire, tenants will face higher rents, said Jon Caplan, executive director of Cushman & Wakefield's New York Capital Markets Team.
 ''In New York, we had more than a 20 percent increase in rent between 2005 and 2006,'' Mr. Caplan said. ''If a lease was signed only a year ago, it's already below market. If it was signed three years ago, chances are it's significantly below. So we will continue to see a shortage of office space with spiking rental rates, and that is going to drive investor sales.'' 
 The seemingly endless rise in rent is causing concern among real estate brokers who represent tenants. ''In previous cycles, a more steady, inflation-resistant market was the norm,'' said David J. Goldstein, executive vice president of Studley. ''Now people want to see extraordinary returns, so they're willing to take risks and play chicken with potential tenants.''
 For tenants who cannot pay the highest rents, there may be few options other than to look outside of Manhattan, or even New York entirely, Mr. Goldstein said, as buildings trade for upward of $1,000 a square foot; that price for a commercial building was rarely recorded before last year. 
 ''We are currently tracking, over the past 60 days, seven major office properties that have closed or will close at $1,000 a square foot or more,'' said Robert M. White, president of Real Capital Analytics, an independent research firm based in New York. ''And these are big buildings, not boutique spaces with small floor plates.''
 One such building under contract is 2 Herald Square, a 12-story property that is in a premier retail corridor. It is being purchased by Sitt Asset Management for $500 million, or $1,400 a square foot. Five Times Square, a 40-story building constructed in 2002, sold in November for $1.3 billion, or $1,125 a square foot.
 ''If you look at the absolute numbers, it raises your eyebrows,'' Mr. White continued. ''But because of land prices and construction costs, they're not too far out of line.''
 Mr. White's research shows that prime New York office space sells for roughly three times the national average, but when measured in terms of short-term yield for investors, there is not much difference between New York and other major American cities. The higher prices paid for buildings in New York are balanced by the proportionately higher rents that owners can charge.
 But compared with a handful of global financial centers overseas, office space is actually relatively affordable in New York. According to Colliers International, a global affiliation of independently owned commercial real estate firms, space in London and Hong Kong goes for more than double the price of space in New York. In addition, Colliers said that in terms of yield to investors, New York's commercial market ranks eighth among global cities.
 But these rankings may be changing. ''There has been a fundamental repricing of real estate in New York,'' said William S. Macklowe, president of Macklowe Properties, a real estate investment trust that owns the General Motors Building. ''The underlying real estate economy justifies that upward pricing pressure.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Herald Square, left, a property in a premier retail corridor, is being purchased by Sitt Asset Management for $500 million, or $1,400 a square foot. Space in 5 Times Square was sold at $1,125 a square foot. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); CBRE GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Cushman & Wakefield

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



346 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Working-Class Housing Complex in Bronx Will Rise as Part of the Greenery

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration, hoping to inspire more imaginative design in working-class housing, intends to turn over one of a dwindling number of large tracts of city-owned land to a development team with an unusual plan -- to build a low- and moderate-income housing complex bound together by courtyards and roof gardens that would be used for everything from harvesting rainwater to farming vegetables and fruit.
 The proposed project, selected from among five finalists by a jury that included not only architects but a professor of environmental psychology and anthropology, would include an outdoor amphitheater, apartments designed for breezes, a fitness center, wiring for Internet access, ''live-work units'' for people who work at home, stoops with photovoltaic canopies, even a Christmas tree farm. 
''We started out on this process to try to raise the level of design and the level of sustainability for housing not just on this site but with the hope that this could be really a model,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''Given the responses we got, I think there's a real opportunity for this to be a project that changes the future of housing in this country.''
 The competition, announced last June and sponsored by the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects and Mr. Donovan's department, attracted interest from 32 teams of architects and developers from around the world. The Bloomberg administration has vowed to create or preserve 165,000 units of low- and moderate-income housing by 2013.
 The winning team, to be announced today, is made up of an international architectural firm, Grimshaw Architects; a New York firm, Dattner Architects; and two developers, the Jonathan Rose Companies and the Phipps Houses Group, a New York nonprofit that develops low- and moderate-income housing. For one dollar, the city plans to give the team an oddly shaped, empty 60,000-square-foot lot at Brook Avenue and East 156th Street in the South Bronx, which it condemned in an urban renewal program in 1972. The property, which includes abandoned railroad tracks and possibly contaminated soil and groundwater, lies northeast of the Hub, the third-largest shopping district in the Bronx.
 The 202-apartment complex, called Via Verde, or the Green Way, would include an 18-story tower at the north end, a mid-rise building with duplex apartments, and townhouses to the south. Sixty-three units would be co-op apartments for sale; the rest would be rentals. The garden would begin at ground level, then spiral upward in a series of roof gardens that face south, culminating in what the team calls a sky terrace.
 ''There's a reason why people like to be in parks and gardens and trees,'' said Jonathan F. P. Rose, president of Jonathan Rose Companies. ''We grew out of nature. How can we make this very urban building but also give people a connection with nature?'' He said the team decided to ''wrap the building with a garden,'' beginning with a contemplative space and moving ''from very private to increasing levels of communality.''
 The so-called green roofs have multiple purposes -- social, psychological and environmental. They would enhance insulation, reduce heat absorption and help manage storm water runoff, the developers say. They would help with solar and rainwater harvesting systems. Every apartment would have two facades, allowing cross-ventilation and plenty of light; all mechanical systems would be energy efficient.
 Other environmentally sensitive technologies that might be used include geothermal ground loops for heating water in winter and cooling it in summer. To encourage conservation, residents would be given control of their own energy consumption. There would be low-flow, water-conserving plumbing fixtures and rooms for recycling and bicycle storage.
 ''The premise is simple -- to create affordable, humane housing,'' said Vincent Chang, a principal at Grimshaw, which was founded in the United Kingdom and has offices in Europe, New York and Australia. ''What's unique is we genuinely sought to make a connection to nature accessible, to bring that level of community into the overall design.''
 The co-ops would be for households making no more than 130 percent of the median income for the city, or roughly $70,000 for a family of four. The rest of the apartments would be rentals for households making less than 40 percent, between 40 and 60 percent, and between 60 and 80 percent of the median income. The low and moderate rents are to be made possible with the help of city, federal and state subsidies. Construction is expected to begin in mid-2008.
 Joan Blumenfeld, president of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, said it remains to be seen whether the project and the process that produced it would serve as a model. But, she said, ''I think it also will start a thought process about looking at different ways of trying to finance and procure these projects in general and trying to introduce design as more of a requirement upfront.''


GRAPHIC: Maps of the Melrose section of the Bronx highlighting the site of the new housing development: The property, in the Melrose section of the South Bronx, was condemned by the city in 1972. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); GARDENING (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (54%)

PERSON: Janny Scott; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



347 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: A Young Woman's Wish, Entombed in Gaza's Isolation 

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
During the midnight air raids over Gaza last summer, when the shock waves shattered the terrace windows and woke her little brother shrieking, Eman Albelbeisi reached beside her bed for the comfort of her stack of college catalogues.
 She lingered over the booklets from Harvard and Yale and Georgetown, even Kentucky State in some faraway town called Frankfort, until she found one particular photograph. It showed two young women seated on the beds in their dorm room, each tapping away at her laptop. Eman imagined those students as herself and her best friend, Haifa El Rekhawi, living their dream of a college education in America.
Even in those terrifying moments of July and August, amid the war between Israel and Hamas, Eman, 18, had reason to believe her fantasy would come to fruition. By September, her dozen years of diligent schoolwork and obsession with learning English from television had earned her a scholarship to the College of Roanoke in Virginia, beginning in the, hopefully, better year of 2007. 
 The scholarship offer was a delicate jigsaw puzzle of an arrangement, pieced together by an elderly Palestinian-American scholar, Fahim Qubain. In his own childhood before World War II, Mr. Qubain had attended the Friends School in Ramallah, and gone on to college and graduate school in the United States. He became a Quaker, a pacifist who combined fervent Palestinian nationalism with equal devotion to a peaceful two-state solution.
 Mr. Qubain was essentially retired from a career in universities and research centers when he read an article in the late 1990s by the journalist and author Geraldine Brooks. It described her relationship with a Palestinian boy whom she met after he threw a rock at her car while she was covering the first intifada. Fascinated and touched by his ambition to study medicine, and by his fatalism that he would become a terrorist instead, she paid for him to attend college in Bethlehem.
 To Mr. Qubain, saving one life was admirable but painfully limited. He and his wife, Nancy, who has a master's degree in Middle East studies from Harvard, formed a nonprofit group, the Hope Fund. Putting in about $30,000 a year of their own money and services, they set about identifying worthy students in Palestinian refugee camps and linking them to scholarships at American colleges, starting with those in the Qubain family's home state of Virginia.
 Starting just weeks after the Sept 11. attacks, the work was never less than arduous. Seeking to protect itself from suicide bombers, Israel largely throttled all the border crossings out of Gaza, making it virtually impossible for Hope Fund candidates to get to visa interviews at the American diplomatic stations in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. And in 2003, Palestinian militants bombed a convoy of American embassy officials entering Gaza in part to interview applicants for Fulbright and Hope Fund scholarships.
 But by the end of the 2005-6 academic year, Mr. Qubain had helped 10 Palestinian students get to the United States, persuading colleges to put forward more than $2 million in financial aid. The day Mr. Qubain picked up one of them, Mohamed Haroun, at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, the young man was surprised to drive three hours toward Bridgewater College in Virginia without being stopped at a single checkpoint. 
 No place was harder to crack than Gaza, and no place needed cracking more. A stronghold of Islamist sentiment, Gaza had answered Israel's unilateral withdrawal in August 2005 with missiles aimed at civilian communities. Almost a year later, Palestinian guerillas seized an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, across the border, and Israeli retaliation and reoccupation propelled the limitless cycle of blood, grievance and vengeance.
 A few months earlier, one of Mr. Qubain's talent scouts in Gaza, Anees Abu Hashem, brought Eman to the Hope Fund's attention. She had an average well into the 90s in high school, and had taught herself English by watching CNN and writing down every word she did not understand. Her notion of American college, so alluring, came from a videotape of ''Legally Blonde.'' To that fanciful version, Mr. Abu Hashem added some actual catalogues.
 Eman and her friend Haifa both applied for the one new scholarship that had been earmarked for a female from Gaza. Eman scored higher on the TOEFL, a standardized test for English fluency, and she said the girls' friendship ended late last summer with the realization there was room only for one dream.
 Or, as Eman came to realize, early last fall, maybe not even for one. In the previous few years, with entry into Israel through the Erez checkpoint extremely difficult, Mr. Abu Hashem had advised Hope Fund applicants to try to exit at Rafah into Egypt and have their required visa interview at the American Embassy in Cairo. Even so, the wait could take weeks or months, followed by an equal amount of waiting in Cairo.
 By the time Eman received confirmation of her offer -- travel expenses from the Hope Fund, annual tuition worth $21,000 from the College of Roanoke, and $9,000 yearly for room, board, and health insurance from Sam Rasoul, a Palestinian-American executive -- the war between Israel and Hamas had all but sealed Rafah entirely.
 The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported in December that in the preceding month, just when Eman needed to leave, the Rafah gate was open for a total of 36 hours. (Since the summer of 2005, the border crossing has been controlled by Egypt, the Palestinian Authority and the European Union.) Gaza, as Haaretz put it, was ''the most closed-off strip of land in the world -- after North Korea.''
 Inside Gaza, meanwhile, Eman also had to persuade her father, Omar Albelbeisi, to let her go. A dentist in a public hospital, Mr. Albelbeisi had no money to help her go to Egypt, having gone months himself without being paid because of the Western economic embargo against the Hamas government. He feared that if he accompanied her to Cairo, he might be stranded there and would lose his job entirely. His wife, returning from a visit to her brother in Germany, had been marooned in Egypt for six weeks last summer.
 Beyond all that, Eman said in a recent telephone interview, her father had more personal objections to the American scholarship offer, insisting she was too young and incapable of taking care of herself, especially outside a Muslim society. E-mail messages from Mr. Qubain and Mr. Abu Hashem show they were beseeching Eman's father to meet with or speak to them so they could reassure him. In the end, they did not succeed.
 By late December, administrators at the College of Roanoke had to reassign the dorm space that would have been Eman's, where she might have sat on her bed, tapping on a laptop, in her version of Reese Witherspoon at Harvard.
 One vanished opportunity in a part of the world with far more grandiose tragedies -- what does it matter? One might ask Mr. Haroun, now in his junior year at Bridgewater College. He has been playing intramural soccer, tutoring classmates in physics, and serving in the student government. 
 ''It's changed me,'' he said by telephone recently. ''I'm much more open-minded now. Much more willing to work for peace. Most people in Gaza see Americans as immoral. And that's changed dramatically for me. That's changed big-time.''
 As for Eman, she said she cried ''for days and nights'' when the calendar neared Jan. 15, 2007, the date on which she was supposed to start college. ''I'm mad at myself for spending six months dreaming about building my life,'' she said. ''I was thinking of how I'm going to comb my hair at college. I was thinking of how I'm going to spend every minute. I hate Gaza. I hate everything around me. I can't believe I am losing my dream.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); VANDALISM (78%); HAMAS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REFUGEES (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); ARAB AMERICANS (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%) Colleges and Universities; Scholarships and Fellowships; Palestinian-Americans; Foreign Students

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%) Hope Fund; College of Roanoke (Virginia)

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman; Fahim Qubain

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (92%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%) Gaza

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



348 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Call To End Tax Refund Loans 

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
As tax season begins, consumer advocacy groups from New Jersey and four other states called on Jackson Hewitt, the nation's second-largest tax preparer, to stop offering refund anticipation loans, saying the loans are aimed at low-income taxpayers and carry effective interest rates ranging from 40 percent to 700 percent. The rates are possible in states that cap loan interest at 20 to 35 percent, like New Jersey, because the refund anticipation loans are issued through nationally chartered banks, which are exempt from state caps, said a spokesman for the New Jersey Citizen Action, one of the consumer groups. In a statement, a Jackson Hewitt spokesman did not address the groups' charges, but said applicants are told about the terms of the loans. RONALD SMOTHERS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%) Taxation; Credit; Ethics; Refunds

ORGANIZATION: CITIZEN ACTION FUND (57%) Jackson Hewitt Tax Service

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



349 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; AUTO RACING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Checkered Flag or Red Flag? Toyota in Nextel Raises Fears

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Jan. 11 

 BODY:
After years of expanding its presence in the United States and beyond, the Toyota Motor Company of Japan recently issued a 2007 forecast that would make it first in global sales, ahead of General Motors.
 And now, Toyota is about to begin competing with its American counterparts on yet another level: Nascar's premier circuit, the Nextel Cup.
Toyota teams have been testing their Camrys here this month at Daytona International Speedway, where they are inspiring anticipation and anxiety as the Nextel Cup season approaches. Toyota will be the first foreign brand to compete in stock-car racing's top series since Jaguar in the 1950s.
 Engineers at Toyota Racing Development, a competition division that builds engines and provides engineering support, have been working for more than a year for this moment. Their mere presence here, however, is making some uneasy. While Toyota scrambles to prepare its Camrys and build its race shops for the Nextel Cup circuit, competitors are accusing the company of raiding teams for talent and raising the costs of operation by offering drastically higher salaries. 
 It is a departure from the universal welcome bestowed upon Dodge when it announced it was re-entering the Cup series in 2001 after a 16-year absence. Its parent company, DaimlerChrysler, was based in Germany, but Dodge was viewed as an American-born brand.
 ''People always fear the unknown,'' said Ty Norris, general manager at Michael Waltrip Racing, a new three-car team that will race in Toyotas with the drivers Michael Waltrip, Dale Jarrett and David Reutimann. ''It's a new thing to be concerned about.''
 Earlier this month, a half-dozen Camrys rolled onto the pavement at Daytona International Speedway to take their first laps as full-fledged Nextel Cup competitors. The speeds soared and dipped during the annual preseason tests representing the unofficial beginning of the 2007 season. The Daytona 500 is scheduled to be run here Feb 18.
 Toyota entered Nascar competition through the Craftsman Truck Series in 2004. Since announcing a year ago that it would join the Nextel Cup competition, the company has seen a debate escalate in this insular sport over what is considered American-made in today's global economy. As Toyota drivers are quick to point out, Camrys are built in the United States, the Ford Fusion is produced in Mexico and the Chevrolet Monte Carlo comes from Canada.
 ''If you're going to argue with me about not being American,'' Jarrett told reporters this month, ''check and see that that TV you're watching was made in the United States that you're watching our great races on.''
 One fear is that Toyota will spend its way to domination in the sport, raising costs for everybody and perhaps eventually running off an ailing domestic manufacturer. Officials at Ford, which has struggled financially while sales of Toyota's have gained greater share in the United States, have been most vocal in their criticism. 
 Dan Davis, director of Ford Racing Technology, said his manufacturer's Nascar operation is financially sound. But he said Toyota's spending spree in acquiring crew chiefs, drivers, engineers, tire changers and other support personnel has affected his teams. That includes Robert Yates Racing, which lost Jarrett and his UPS sponsorship.
 ''I think they have been predators, and people would say that might be extremely negative,'' Davis said. ''I would say that in the business world, people are predators. That's how you get things done.
 ''When anything new comes in with a lot of resources, then those entities are going to try to acquire the best people, the best equipment, the best that they can get. That's a bit predatory to me. And if you pay people more money than they were getting and you entice them other ways, in a way that's more than normal, then it's a bit predatory.''
 Team Red Bull has been accused of paying 200 to 300 percent more to hire John Probst, a top Ford engineer. Davis said he heard that Michael Waltrip Racing came up with more than $20 million to lure Jarrett, the 1999 Cup points champion and a favorite among longtime Southern race fans, away from the Yates team. Salaries are a closely held secret throughout Nascar, and Michael Waltrip Racing officials have denied those figures.
 Davis said he voiced his concerns privately with Nascar. So far, Nascar officials say they see this as business as usual in a sport in which teams openly raid competitors. Earlier this month, for instance, Roush Racing hired the crew chief Larry Carter away from Michael Waltrip Racing.
 ''We hear just like everybody else,'' Robin Pemberton, Nascar's vice president for competition, said in a telephone interview. ''We don't get into the book work of anybody. We don't know what people are paying. It runs in cycles. When you have new teams coming into the series, you're going to have to do something to ramp up.''
 Still, Toyota has yet to compete in its first points race, and it is already on the defensive.
 ''We're not in the business of writing checks,'' Lee White, the senior vice president and general manager for Toyota Racing Development, said last month in an office in High Point, N.C. ''People go out and say, 'Oh, Michael Waltrip hired Dale Jarrett, and all that money had to come from somewhere, had to come from Toyota's deep pockets.' '' 
 White added: ''I would appreciate if Dan and some of those guys would get their facts straight. But really, the things that they say are really not about the facts, apparently. They're defensive about their own program, and it's easier to heave criticism over the fence at T.R.D. and Toyota. That's just the way it is. We're O.K. with that. We don't expect everyone to endorse us or be a big fan. We'll earn our stripes on the racetrack.''
 That is the overriding focus as the Daytona 500 approaches. A countdown clock hangs in the California headquarters of Toyota Racing Development, where engines are being built for some of Toyota's teams. A similar clock is on a wall at the Team Red Bull race shop in Mooresville, N.C., a second-by-second reminder that time is running out. 
 ''Sometimes we have looked at it and said, 'Oh, my God,' said Marty Gaunt, the team's general manager. Team Red Bull's drivers, Brian Vickers and A. J. Allmendinger, will race in Camrys this year.
 Gaunt's race shop is populated by construction workers, mechanics, fabricators and others. The shop is being built at the same time cars are being finished: While the dry wall goes up, the sheet metal goes on.
 It is the same at Michael Waltrip Racing in nearby Cornelius, N.C., where the shop is still under construction. 
 ''I guess we're a little bit numb to what is really a panic and what is just everyday business,'' Norris said. ''Some of these things, if it was maybe with a normal team, they would be spinning into the core of the earth crazy worried about it.''
 About the only smooth transition has come in High Point, where Bill Davis Racing, which switched from Dodge, is the only established team to join Toyota this year, with the drivers Dave Blaney and Jeremy Mayfield.
 Jarrett and Blaney are the only Toyota drivers guaranteed to make the field for the Daytona 500 because of Nascar's rules involving past performance. The others will have to race their way into the handful of available spots in the 43-car field while qualifying against the deepest, most fully financed pool of competitors ever for the Nextel Cup. 
 When Toyota joined the Craftsman Truck series in 2004, it posted a modest four victories. In 2006, the manufacturer won a series-best 12 of 25 events and captured its first championship with the driver Todd Bodine.
 Given all the criticism of Toyota, would it be easier for the company to make a small splash in its Nextel Cup debut?
 ''Oh, there's no question,'' White said. ''Our company's way is to just slide in under the radar.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above and right, the Team Red Bull shop in Mooresville, N.C., is building Camrys for Toyota's debut in the Nextel Cup. Competitors have accused Toyota of raising costs. (Photographs by Robert Padgett for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
The Michael Waltrip Racing shop. ''People always fear the unknown,'' said Ty Norris, general manager of Waltrip Racing, which will use Camrys. (Photo by Robert Padgett for The New York Times)
 A. J. Allmendinger of Team Red Bull testing a Toyota Camry at Daytona International Speedway. The Daytona 500 is set for Feb. 18. (Photo by Rusty Jarrett/Getty Images)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); ENGINEERING (74%) Automobile Racing; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (96%); LAPS AS (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (96%); TM (NYSE) (96%); 7203 (TSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%); ISCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (57%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (57%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Viv Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



350 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Justices Decline to Take Up New Eminent Domain Case 

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE; Fernanda Santos contributed reporting from White Plains.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court on Tuesday bypassed an opportunity to revisit or limit its much-disputed 2005 ruling that upheld governmental power to use eminent domain to foster economic development.
 Without comment, the justices declined to hear a case from Port Chester in Westchester County, N.Y., that challenged the village's use of eminent domain in a dispute between a property owner and a private company designated as the developer of a run-down 27-acre urban renewal area.
The redevelopment plan, adopted by Port Chester in 1999, envisioned a retail area that would include a drugstore. In 2002, the developer, G & S Port Chester LLC, announced that a Walgreens store would be part of the project. But Bart Didden, the owner of the parcel where the store was to sit, had by that time separately entered into a lease with a competing drugstore chain, CVS. 
 After negotiations between Mr. Didden and G & S Port Chester failed, the village sided with its developer and notified the property owner that his half-acre parcel would be taken by eminent domain and made available for the developer's use. Mr. Didden and his business partner, Domenick Bologna, brought a lawsuit in 2004 arguing that Port Chester's condemnation of the property was not for a true ''public use,'' the phrase that identifies the constitutionally permissible use of the eminent domain power, but rather for the private financial benefit of the developer. 
 The lawsuit accused Gregg Wasser, G & S Port Chester's owner, of having improperly demanded a financial stake in the plan for the CVS store as the price for permission to proceed with it. Both the Federal District Court in Manhattan and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit dismissed the lawsuit.
 In their Supreme Court appeal, Didden v. Village of Port Chester, No. 06-652, Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna were represented by the Institute for Justice, a public interest law firm in Arlington, Va., that litigated on behalf of the property owners in the 2005 Supreme Court case and that has organized a national campaign against what it calls eminent domain abuse.
 Partly in response to the Supreme Court's ruling in that case, Kelo v. City of New London, 34 states have adopted measures limiting the use of eminent domain. The Institute for Justice publicized the Port Chester case widely and looked to it as an opportunity for the court to clarify ''that Kelo did not suddenly turn every redevelopment area in the United States into a Constitution-free zone,'' as Dana Berliner, a senior attorney with the institute, said when the appeal was filed in November.
 ''The court will have to review an eminent domain case sometime soon,'' Ms. Berliner said on Tuesday.
 The vote in the Kelo case was 5 to 4. The recent changes at the court are not likely to have an impact, however, because both Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the two justices who have since been succeeded, were among the dissenters.
 Even if there was interest on the court in revisiting the issue, the justices might have seen the Port Chester case as a poor vehicle for doing so, because the lower courts based their dismissal on the property owner's failure to file his lawsuit within the three-year statute of limitations. The suit should have been filed within three years of the village's July 1999 adoption of the redevelopment plan, the courts ruled, rejecting Mr. Didden's argument that the clock did not start running until late 2003, when the village announced that it would take his property.
 ''I'm so disillusioned with the whole court system at this point,'' Mr. Didden said on Tuesday.
 Mark S. Tulis, special counsel to the village, said in an interview that the village had had to choose between condemning Mr. Didden's property or breaching its 1999 contract with the developer. ''Either way,'' Mr. Tulis said, ''we knew there was no way both sides would be happy.''
 The amount that Port Chester has to compensate Mr. Didden is the subject of a separate lawsuit.
 In other action on Tuesday, the court declined to hear a California utility company's appeal of a ruling that required administrative review of the potential environmental impact of a terrorist attack on the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant in San Luis Obispo.
 The utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, is seeking a 20-year license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to build and operate a spent-fuel storage installation there. Responding to a lawsuit brought by a local antinuclear group, San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that before granting the license, the nuclear agency had to take account of the potential environmental risk of terrorism.
 The utility's appeal, Pacific Gas and Electric v. San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace, No. 06-466, argued that the ruling was a misinterpretation of federal environmental law that would place unnecessary burdens on license applicants.
 The government itself did not file a Supreme Court appeal, however. Solicitor General Paul D. Clement told the court in his brief that while the decision was incorrect and potentially ''disruptive,'' it was too soon to know how disruptive it would prove to be in practice. While the government would support the utility if the justices nonetheless wanted to accept the case, the brief said, the appeal ''does not clearly satisfy the court's criteria'' for taking up appeals and should be denied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (96%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); APPEALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%) Eminent Domain; Suits and Litigation; Area Planning and Renewal; Land Use Policies; States (US); Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Port Chester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



351 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: New Leader For Economic Agency 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday appointed Robert C. Lieber, a private-equity executive at Lehman Brothers, as president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, overseeing nearly 400 employees who try to develop city-owned real estate, help businesses, provide financial services and revitalize the waterfront and industrial neighborhoods. Mr. Lieber, 52, who starts on Feb. 1 and will be paid $189,720, was part of a group of Lehman Brothers volunteers who last year helped the city renegotiate the lease for the World Trade Center site, along with the state and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. He succeeds Andrew M. Alper, who stepped down in June; Joshua J. Sirefman was interim president of the corporation from July until this month. SEWELL CHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Robert C Lieber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



352 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Plans Cut in Property Tax And End to Sales Tax on Clothes

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is proposing to cut property taxes by roughly 5 percent and eliminate the city sales tax on clothing and footwear as New York enjoys the bounty from its booming economy and real estate market, city officials said yesterday. 
 Mr. Bloomberg plans to outline his proposals today in his annual address to the City Council. The property tax cuts, which would be in addition to an existing $400 annual rebate for homeowners, would apply for at least the next fiscal year, aides said, while the sales tax cuts would be permanent. The entire tax relief package, which also includes measures meant to benefit small businesses, would consume $1 billion of the city's $55 billion budget. 
The tax cuts represent a departure for Mr. Bloomberg, who last year used the bulk of a $5 billion surplus for a reserve fund to pay future health care costs and to offset projected deficits. This time, Mr. Bloomberg concluded that given the city's overall fiscal health, revenues that had come in so much higher than expected should be shared with taxpayers and plowed back into the economy, aides said.
 The proposals are likely to further burnish the mayor's reputation among New Yorkers, which took a heavy beating during his first term, when he pushed through an 18.5 percent tax increase. Mr. Bloomberg is in his second and final term, and has drawn increasing interest as a potential candidate for national office, and his decision to cut taxes fuels speculation about his future.
 The mayor's proposal is likely to get a sympathetic hearing from the City Council, whose members have been calling for tax relief and who set the tax rate as part of the budget process.
 City officials, who briefed reporters about the proposals on the condition of anonymity, declined to discuss the cuts in detail.
 But, they said, the city was flush enough to set aside $750 million for the property tax cut, at least for the fiscal year beginning in July, which would translate into an average overall reduction of 5 percent. The average yearly tax bill for a condominium owner is $6,449, so a 5 percent cut would translate to $322 annually. The average tax bill on a house is $3,098, and a 5 percent cut would save $160. 
 The officials cautioned that they could not yet say precisely what a $750 million cut would mean for different types of properties because single-family homes and condominium and co-op apartments are taxed at different rates through a complex formula whose variables have not yet been set for the next year. 
 Officials did say that they took into account the new tentative assessment roll announced last week, which shows property values on the rise. Mr. Bloomberg plans to commit to only one year on the property tax break because, one aide said, ''he's comfortable that the city can afford the $750 million reduction or cut, but not confident that he can guarantee it on an ongoing basis.''
 Although the officials would not say how large the budget windfall is or describe its source in detail, in recent years the city has benefited from taxes on both the enormous volume and size of real estate transactions and from huge profits on Wall Street.
 Last week, city officials said that the value of all city properties increased 19 percent last year, a sharp rise at a time when many real estate markets were cooling or declining. 
 In announcing surpluses in the past, Mr. Bloomberg has often tamped down expectations about the health of the city's finances, and has been accused by some budget experts outside his administration of using revenue estimates that were too low as a tactic to limit spending.
 The rest of Mr. Bloomberg's tax cut proposals would require state approval, aides said.
 The mayor has already begun seeking an extension of the popular $400-a-year property tax rebate for the owners of one-, two- and three-family homes and co-op and condominium apartments through 2009. That rebate started in 2004, but the annual program will end if the state does not reauthorize it.
 Bloomberg administration officials said that reducing the property tax rate was needed to reauthorize those rebates, since when Albany originally granted permission for them, lawmakers required the city to lower its overall tax rate in order to extend the rebate program past 2006.
 Under the mayor's sales tax proposal, an existing exemption from the 4 percent city sales tax for clothing and footwear under $110 would be extended to purchases above that amount. The city cannot, however, expand the parallel exemption for clothing items under $110 from state sales tax and a Metropolitan Transportation Authority sales tax surcharge to purchases above that amount. So those items would still be subject to the state and M.T.A. tax, a combined 4.375 percent, rather than the current 8.375 percent city, state and M.T.A. tax.
 Such a change would make clothing sellers in the five boroughs more competitive with those in New Jersey, where all clothing is exempt from the sales tax. In Connecticut, clothing under $50 is exempt from the state's 6 percent sales tax.
 Finally, Mr. Bloomberg is proposing changes to business taxes that would bring city policy more in line with federal and state provisions, officials said. Those include increasing deductions, creating credits and simplifying filing requirements for unincorporated business and some corporations, with an eye toward helping small-business owners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); SALES TAX (93%); PROPERTY TAX (93%); FOOTWEAR (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); TRENDS (67%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Rebates ; Sales Tax; Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Small Business; Apparel; Taxation; Shoes and Boots 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



353 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: French Visit to Tehran, Seen as Diplomatic Faux Pas, Is Aborted

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
At a time when most world powers have forged a united front against Iran because of its nuclear program, President Jacques Chirac arranged to send his foreign minister to Tehran to talk about a side issue, then abruptly canceled the visit earlier this month in embarrassing failure.
 Mr. Chirac's troubles stemmed from his deep desire to help resolve the crisis in Lebanon before his term runs out in May. To that end, he decided to seek the support of Iran, which, along with Syria, backs the radical Shiite organization Hezbollah, three senior French officials said in describing the effort. 
 So he planned to send Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy to Tehran, only to call off the trip two days before it was to have taken place, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly on diplomatic issues. 
 Both Mr. Douste-Blazy and senior Foreign Ministry officials concluded that such a trip was doomed to fail and that it would send the wrong signal just weeks after the United Nations Security Council unanimously approved sanctions intended to curb Iran's nuclear program, they added.
 That put Mr. Douste-Blazy in the uncomfortable position of having to tell Mr. Chirac that he did not want to go, one senior official said.
 ''This is not French diplomacy at its best,'' the official said of the initiative, which was disclosed in the newspaper Le Monde on Tuesday afternoon.
 When Mr. Douste-Blazy visited Saudi Arabia and Egypt this month, the foreign ministers of both countries also informed him that they strongly opposed any such initiative.
 Prince Saud al-Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, was so determined to stop the visit that he spoke to Mr. Douste-Blazy in uncharacteristically blunt terms -- ''I am going to tell you, do not go'' -- according to a senior official familiar with the conversation.
 The French plan contradicted the Bush administration strategy of trying to isolate and punish Iran. Rather than negotiating with Tehran, the United States is building up American forces in the Persian Gulf, persuading many international businesses to cut off dealings with Iran and trying to curtail Iranian operations in Iraq.
 The Bush administration apparently was not consulted in advance about the plan, and Stephen J. Hadley, the Bush administration's national security adviser, protested to Jean-David Levitte, France's ambassador in Washington.
 In subsequent communications with R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, and Craig R. Stapleton, the American ambassador to France, the Foreign Ministry gave assurances that it was trying hard to ensure that Mr. Douste-Blazy did not travel to Iran.
 Iran, meanwhile, has officially expressed its displeasure that the trip was canceled.
 For the moment, Jean-Claude Cousseran, a former head of France's foreign intelligence service and former ambassador to Egypt, is planning to make the trip to Tehran, leaving open the face-saving possibility that the foreign minister could follow at a later, unspecified, date, a senior French official said.
 But the initiative is so ad hoc and divisive that one senior official said even Mr. Cousseran's trip might not take place. 
 Mr. Chirac's initiative is surprising because he has consistently taken a hard line against Iran and its nuclear program, privately expressing the view that the Islamic republic cannot be trusted. While other global players, including Russia and China, regularly send senior officials to Tehran, France had joined with Britain, Germany and the United States in pressuring Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment activities or face sanctions in the Security Council. In fact, France largely drafted the initial resolution in tough language that was watered down in the end.
 French officials stressed that discussion of Iran's nuclear program was not part of the new initiative, and that Mr. Chirac was simply trying anything he could think of to help Lebanon, where about 1,700 French troops are stationed as part of a United Nations peacekeeping force.
 Mr. Chirac's interest in Lebanon is described by some of his close aides as an obsession, and he seems driven to help bolster its weak government before his presidential mandate ends, even if it means courting Tehran. 
 Specifically, Mr. Chirac would like Iran's help to curb the activities of Hezbollah. He also wants to win Iran's support for an international tribunal to try the killers of Lebanon's former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, who was a close friend.
 Mr. Chirac has repeatedly ruled out any dialogue with Syria, which he blames for Mr. Hariri's assassination.
 On Jan. 25, Mr. Chirac is playing host to an international donors' conference for the reconstruction of Lebanon, and he is determined that it be a success. Neither Iran nor Hezbollah, which is part of the Lebanese government, have been invited.
 But Hezbollah and its backers in Lebanon have relentlessly criticized the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora, saying it has lost its legitimacy and calling on it to resign. 
 Mr. Douste-Blazy's visit would have been a diplomatic coup for Iran. The last time France sent a senior delegation to Tehran was in October 2003, when Dominique de Villepin, who was then foreign minister, spent less than a day there along with his British and German counterparts. 
 The trio announced an ambitious nuclear plan aimed at rewarding Iran with political, economic and security incentives in return for the suspension of its uranium enrichment activities. The plan foundered after Iran rejected international demands to stop making enriched uranium, which can be used to make energy or nuclear weapons. 
 The French initiative on Iran underscores the disarray of French foreign policy as Mr. Chirac nears the end of his second term as president. 
 It had been developed inside Elysee Palace by Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, Mr. Chirac's national security adviser. When Mr. Gourdault-Montagne met with Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, on the fringes of a security conference in Bahrain last month, Mr. Mottaki suggested that Mr. Douste-Blazy visit Tehran. 
 Mr. Douste-Blazy met with Mr. Mottaki twice last year, in Lebanon and at the United Nations. But Mr. Douste-Blazy concluded that it would be impossible to meet with him in Iran, particularly after he was told that Mr. Mottaki was the Iranian official who opened a conference on Holocaust denial in Tehran that was condemned around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRORISM (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ESPIONAGE (60%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) Hezbollah (Terrorist Orgn); United Nations

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%) Philippe (Min) Douste-Blazy; Elaine Sciolino; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Jean-David (Amb) Levitte; Stephen J Hadley; Rafik Hariri

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (52%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); LEBANON (93%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN (91%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iran; France; Lebanon; Saudi Arabia; Egypt; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



354 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

U.N. Count Says 34,000 Died in Iraq Last Year
The United Nations reported that more than 34,000 Iraqis were killed in violence last year, a figure that was nearly three times higher than an estimate for 2006 compiled from Iraqi ministry tallies by The Associated Press this month. A1

At least 70 people were killed at a largely Shiite university in Baghdad when a wave of explosions tore through a crowd leaving the school's main gate minutes after classes ended. 
In all, at least 108 people died across the capital, an Interior Ministry official said. A7

President Bush said that Iraq had ''fumbled'' the executions of Saddam Hussein and two of his deputies and that the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki ''has still got some maturation to do.'' A8

Chirac Drops Iran Mission
President Jacques Chirac of France arranged to send his foreign minister to Iran for talks on Lebanon, then abruptly canceled the visit at a time when most world powers have forged a united front against Iran because of its nuclear program. A3

Embattled Israeli Leadership
The Israeli military's chief of staff submitted his resignation after criticism of the military's performance in last summer's war in Lebanon, and an Israeli prosecutor ordered a criminal investigation of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to see whether he exercised improper influence in a bank privatization. A6

NATIONAL A13-17

Obama Signals Intent To Run for President
Senator Barack Obama of Illinois made clear his intention to enter the Democratic presidential race, creating a fund-raising committee to open a full-fledged campaign next month to become the nation's first African-American president. A1

Violence Grew in Los Angeles
Civil rights advocates say violence grew at an alarming rate last year in Los Angeles, continuing a trend of more confrontations between Latinos and blacks and prompting street demonstrations and long discussions on talk-radio programs. A1

Train Derails in Kentucky
A freight train carrying chemical cargo derailed and ignited south of Louisville, Ky., forcing the evacuation of homes, shutting down roads and sending students home from school, Kentucky emergency officials said. A13

Choosing Jurors for Libby Trial
The perjury trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr. began with his lawyers trying to eliminate as jurors anyone who might have strongly negative feelings about the Bush administration in general and Vice President Dick Cheney in particular. A14

U.S. Attorneys Are Dismissed
The Justice Department is removing several United States attorneys from their jobs, among them Carol C. Lam, the top federal prosecutor in San Diego, who led the corruption prosecution of former Representative Randy Cunningham. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Bloomberg Proposes Major Tax Cuts for City
Mayor Bloomberg is proposing cutting property taxes by roughly 5 percent and eliminating the city sales tax on clothing and footwear as New York enjoys the bounty from its booming economy and real estate market. The entire tax relief package would consume $1 billion of the city's $55 billion budget. A1

Low-Cost Housing Contest
The winner of an international competition to design and build working-class housing in New York plans complexes bound together by courtyards and roof gardens to be used for a variety of purposes, including harvesting rainwater and farming vegetables and fruit. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

U.S. Told of Royalty Error
A top Interior Department official was told nearly three years ago about a legal blunder that allowed drilling companies to avoid billions of dollars in payments for oil and gas pumped from publicly owned waters, a report by the department's independent investigator has found. C1

Cablevision Rejects Bid
The board of Cablevision Systems Corporation rejected an $8.9 billion offer from the Dolans, its founding family. The rebuff was a rare example of a board denying a demand from its controlling shareholder. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The missing partner in Iraq; how to choose a fiscal watchdog; keep your shoes on, for a price; ending the prison windfall.

Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
Obituaries C14
TV Listings E11
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); JURY TRIALS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); LAWYERS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); TRAINS (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%); JACQUES CHIRAC (69%); DICK CHENEY (58%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (76%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



355 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Obama Starts Bid, Reshaping Democratic Field

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Two years after arriving in Washington, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois made clear on Tuesday his intention to enter the Democratic presidential race, creating an exploratory committee while preparing to open a full-fledged campaign next month to become the nation's first black president.
 The announcement by Mr. Obama, his aides said, removed any doubt about his candidacy and ended weeks of speculation -- fueled, in part, by the senator himself -- that sent ripples through the ranks of other Democrats eyeing the presidential nomination. He said he would formally declare his intention to run on Feb. 10 in Springfield, Ill., the home of Abraham Lincoln.
''Our leaders in Washington seem incapable of working together in a practical, common-sense way,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking in a video address sent to his supporters. ''Politics has become so bitter and partisan, so gummed up by money and influence, that we can't tackle the big problems that demand solutions.''
 The video, which was also posted on Mr. Obama's Web site, was a blue-sky plan of optimism, offering few specifics. It was designed to make the point that he -- as opposed to any other Democratic candidate -- was the fresh, unifying face of the party. 
 Mr. Obama, 45, became the sixth Democrat to enter the prospective field, joining Senators Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, former Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, perhaps Mr. Obama's biggest rival, is expected to join the race this month. Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico said he would make his decision known soon, and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the party's nominee in 2004, is also considering another run.
 But in this early stage of the contest, one year before voters begin selecting a nominee, Mr. Obama's candidacy changes the contours of the Democratic landscape. He is the only major candidate, at least among those from the Senate, who is not on record voting about whether to go to war with Iraq; when that vote was taken, he was in the Illinois Legislature, where he was a vocal opponent of the invasion.
 Since then, though, Mr. Edwards has renounced his support of the war and become a stronger critic than Mr. Obama. And Mrs. Clinton, who has expressed skepticism about President Bush's revised Iraq strategy, has struggled to convince many in the Democratic Party's base that she has spoken out strongly enough.
 While Mr. Obama does not have the burden of explaining his vote on the war resolution as other senators do, the lack of a Senate track record on other issues could prove damaging as he fends off inevitable criticism that he does not have the experience to be president. 
 ''He may not have 40 years in politics, but he's not exactly a child here,'' said William J. Daley, a friend of Mr. Obama who served as commerce secretary in the Clinton administration. ''He's a well-established guy who knows a lot about the world.''
 The dynamic among Mr. Edwards, Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, not to mention other Democrats, is poised to touch off a curious scramble inside the party. Mr. Edwards is seeking to capture the economically disenfranchised or anxious class of voters, who might also find Mr. Obama appealing. At the same time, it remains an open question whether Mrs. Clinton will have competition for the moderate voters who provided a staple for her husband's candidacy 15 years ago.
 ''One thing that I'm convinced of,'' Mr. Obama said Tuesday evening as he left the Capitol, ''is that people want something new.''
 By now, the rapid trajectory of Mr. Obama is a well-established tale, with his rise from law professor to state senator to United States senator in less than a decade. He is the only African-American now serving in the Senate and only the third since Reconstruction.
 But the next phase of his political development presents an even more intriguing storyline -- as well as inviting closer scrutiny -- as he discovers whether it is a blessing or a curse to embark on a presidential race carrying so many expectations. 
 ''Running for the presidency is a profound decision, a decision no one should make on the basis of media hype or personal ambition alone,'' Mr. Obama said in his video address, adding: ''I certainly didn't expect to find myself in this position a year ago.''
 At 10:06 a.m. Tuesday, Mr. Obama filed papers with the Federal Election Commission to open a presidential exploratory committee. After disclosing his decision on his Web site -- a friendly venue where he would face no questions -- he immediately began making telephone calls to key Democratic leaders in states with early contests in the party's 2008 nominating calendar.
 Mike Gronstal, the Democratic leader of the Iowa Senate, said he received a courtesy call from Mr. Obama on Tuesday morning, the second time in less than a week that the two had spoken by telephone. 
 ''I welcomed him to the race, and he said he's definitely in,'' Mr. Gronstal said in an interview. ''I told him that in Iowa, to win people's votes, you have to go through a lot of living rooms and answer a lot of questions. We put candidates through the paces, and we don't jump early.''
 In Washington, Mr. Obama's announcement caused a stir among Democratic political operatives, who rushed to make inquiries about joining his campaign. A list of telephone numbers for local offices in Iowa, New Hampshire and Chicago -- none of which have even opened yet -- were being circulated via e-mail.
 Mr. Obama intends to put the headquarters for his campaign operation in Chicago, which also would provide a major fund-raising base. But the senator was also reaching out to New York contributors, aides said, and intended to establish a fund-raising operation in the city.
 Several Democratic fund-raisers in New York say privately that they have received phone calls from Mr. Obama in recent days and weeks, and at one point Mr. Obama had a brief conversation with Bill Lynch, a black Democratic political consultant who is close to Mrs. Clinton and was a top adviser to former Mayor David N. Dinkins.
 ''Senator Obama and I were supposed to get together, but I haven't heard from him recently,'' Mr. Lynch said in an interview Tuesday. ''It's too early right now to say who I would end up with, though. I'm a serious politician, and I would like to hear the compelling arguments.''
 Then, he added, ''I'm a real admirer of Senator Clinton's.''
 Advisers to Mrs. Clinton say her campaign timetable has not changed; she expects to make a decision in the next few weeks. 
 Mrs. Clinton did not take questions from reporters as she walked into the Senate chamber for a series of votes on Tuesday evening. At one point, she and Mr. Obama were barely a foot apart, but carried on conversations as though the other was not there.
 As he left the Senate floor, Mr. Obama smiled when asked about the dynamic of the rival senators. ''For me, at least,'' he said, ''I actually think it could be fun.''

Colorado Republican to Run
 WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 (Reuters) -- Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, a leading opponent of illegal immigration, said Tuesday that he would take the first step toward a long-shot bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008.
 Mr. Tancredo, 61, formed an exploratory committee to raise money for what he termed an ''arduous and undeniably uphill battle'' that would advance his views on overhauling immigration law.
 Mr. Tancredo has been a leading voice in Congress against proposals for guest-worker programs and in favor of stronger border security to block illegal immigrants from Mexico. 
 He said he did not see any other presidential candidate in either party dedicated to a tough stance on immigration.
 Mr. Tancredo, who visited the early caucus state of Iowa last weekend, is the eighth Republican to announce an exploratory presidential bid.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Barack Obama of Illinois headed into the Senate chamber yesterday after filing papers to open a presidential exploratory committee. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); IRAQ WAR (67%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TOM VILSACK (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%) Barack (Sen) Obama; Jeff Zeleny; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



356 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Allies Support Goals Of New U.S. Strategy in Iraq

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: KUWAIT, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
America's Persian Gulf allies on Tuesday endorsed the goals of President Bush's new Iraq strategy. But even one of Washington's staunchest partners in the region, Saudi Arabia, indicated deep concerns about whether the Shiite-led government in Baghdad had the capacity and will to halt sectarian violence and protect Sunni Arabs.
 The six foreign ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council, along with those of Egypt and Jordan and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, issued a statement that ''welcomed the commitment'' of the United States to stabilizing Iraq, but made no commitments to help stabilize or rebuild the country. 
The Bush administration's blunt warnings to Iran in recent days echoed throughout the session, and the official communique broadly criticized any nation that interfered in the internal affairs of Iraq -- a clear reference to Iran, although the official document never mentioned it by name.
 Kuwait was the final stop of a diplomatic swing by Ms. Rice across the Middle East to explain the president's new military, diplomatic and economic initiatives for Iraq, and to build support among the region's Arab states, most of which have majority Sunni populations. The meeting in Kuwait was held 16 years to the day after a United States-led coalition began an offensive to drive the Iraqi Army out of Kuwait.
 But it was the threat of rising sectarian violence following a second American-led invasion that was the topic of Tuesday's meeting.
 ''Nine foreign ministers are meeting in Kuwait today to precisely prevent Iraq from sliding into civil war, and that speaks volumes,'' said Sheik Muhammad al-Sabah al-Salim al-Sabah, the foreign minister of Kuwait.
 ''The participants welcomed the commitment by the United States as stated in President Bush's recent speech to defend the security of the gulf, the territorial integrity of Iraq and to ensure a successful, fair and inclusive political process that engages all Iraqi communities and guarantees the stability of the country,'' said the communique, in language that the Bush administration could cite to prove broad regional support for its initiatives. 
 But earlier on Tuesday, Prince Saud al-Faisal, the foreign minister of Saudi Arabia, issued a more guarded and carefully worded endorsement of the new Bush strategy. 
 ''We agree fully with the goals set by the new strategy, which in our view are the goals that -- if implemented -- would solve the problems that face Iraq,'' he said. 
 Prince Saud said he could not comment on specifics of the plan, which Bush administration officials acknowledge relies heavily on the actions of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, a Shiite political leader who has shown a reluctance to crack down on violent Shiite militias. Yet he also declined to be drawn into a discussion of possible Saudi action to protect Sunni Arabs in Iraq in the event of a full-blown sectarian civil war.
 ''Why speculate on such dire consequences?'' he said, urging unity among Iraq's Shiites, Sunnis, Turkmen and Kurds. ''Why not speculate on the positive side? I cannot for the life of me concede that a country like that would commit suicide given the good will and the desire of all to help in this.''
 Ms. Rice acknowledged the legitimacy of those worries within powerful Sunni-majority states, where the Baghdad government has remained either unwilling or unable to stop Shiite death squads from murdering Sunnis, in what appeared to be a campaign of ethnic killings.
 ''There are concerns about whether the Maliki government is prepared to take an evenhanded, nonsectarian path,'' Ms. Rice said. ''After all the years of deep grievance in the region, within Iraq, it's not surprising that that's the case.''
 But Ms. Rice stressed that each of the Middle Eastern leaders with whom she has met ''wants to give this a chance,'' adding, ''That's the position of people in the region, and there is, in fact, a burden on the Iraqi government to perform.''
 The communique contained no specific reference to Mr. Bush's order for adding more than 20,000 troops to the Iraq mission. But Sheik Muhammad, the Kuwaiti foreign minister, said, ''We expressed our desire to see the president's plan to reinforce the American military presence in Baghdad as a vehicle and a venue to stabilize Baghdad and to prevent Iraq from sliding into ugly war, the civil war.''
 The statement never challenged the Maliki government directly, but it used standard diplomatic code to make the point: it called for disarming militias and ending sectarian violence. ''The ministers expressed the hope that the Iraqi government will actively engage all components of the Iraqi people in a real political process and act in a manner that ensures inclusiveness and paves the way for the success of national reconciliation,'' it said.
 Asked about regional worries over Iran, Sheik Muhammad said the other ministers had agreed to a ''call for all countries to refrain from interfering in Iraqi internal affairs.'' He added, ''This is something that we are all concerned about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); ARMIES (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%) Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (83%) Gulf Cooperation Council

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (96%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); JORDAN (93%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Saudi Arabia; Kuwait; Egypt; Jordan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007



357 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Thursday Styles; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Making Money In Multiples

BYLINE: By Eric Wilson

 BODY:
FAST fashion collections like those of Karl Lagerfeld, Stella McCartney and Isaac Mizrahi have brought good design to the masses, but what have they brought to designers?
 ''Obviously, it's cash,'' said Jack McCollough, half of the designing duo behind the ultraducky label Proenza Schouler, which Target will begin selling next month. Instead of $1,525 jackets at Bergdorf Goodman, it will be $39.99 cotton blazers at Target -- oh, the bliss of economy of scale. 
''We're a small company, and we need all the income we can get,'' Mr. McCollough said. ''It's also really great exposure.''
 Mr. McCollough and his design partner, Lazaro Hernandez, are so enamored with their Target collection that for four days, beginning Feb. 2, they plan to transform the Opening Ceremony store in SoHo into a pop-up Proenza Schouler for Target boutique. Humberto Leon, an owner of the store, said he will begin selling the luxury Proenza Schouler line in Los Angeles when an Opening Ceremony store is opened there in April.
 Like the Luella Bartley and Behnaz Sarafpour collections that have been sold at Target, the Proenza Schouler line could be described as representing the best of their past hits: a palm print skirt for $24.99, a hooded cotton anorak for $39.99, a silk camisole with trapunto topstitching for $49.99.
 Designing for Target and for other projects -- a watch for Movado, a camera case for Hewlett-Packard -- has enabled Mr. McCollough and Mr. Hernandez to develop their business more quickly than most fashion upstarts. With their business partner, Shirley Cook, they recently bought out their sole investor, Markus Hofels, a private venture capitalist in Berlin. They also signed a license to create sunglasses with L'amy, the French eyewear company, which they will show in September.
 By now, designers like Mr. McCollough and Mr. Hernandez have figured out how to differentiate their work so as not to turn off those who prefer their Proenza Schouler at Bergdorf. The focus of their Target line is day wear, with bright colors, cotton sweatshirts and pajama-inspired tops. New for Target is a Proenza Schouler crest, printed on sweatshirts, with the silhouette of an Italian greyhound (based on an office regular named Baloney) encircled in a laurel wreath.
 ''That kind of stuff is easier to make a little richer,'' Mr. McCollough said. ''It's hard to make a cheaper lace look expensive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: WIDE EXPOSURE -- Proenza Schouler's day wear for Target.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); RETAILERS (76%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (75%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%) Apparel; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); L'AMY SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Target Stores; Proenza Schouler; Bergdorf Goodman

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (53%); SIC3821 LABORATORY APPARATUS & FURNITURE (53%)

PERSON: Jack Mccollough; Lazaro Hernandez; Eric Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) GERMANY (77%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



358 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: NBC President Says Ratings Are Gaining Momentum

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Jan. 17 

 BODY:
Even in the face of what he acknowledged will likely be another tsunami of ratings from Fox's ''American Idol,'' which again set a viewership record on Tuesday night, Kevin Reilly, the president of NBC Entertainment, said here on Wednesday that his network had established significant momentum this season and had regained its status as the network of what he called ''quality programs.''
 Mr. Reilly pointed to a number of successes for NBC, including growth in shows like ''The Office,'' the comedy that has turned into a hit for NBC after being on the ratings critical list. ''If you stick with quality, it pays off,'' Mr. Reilly asserted. 
It may be paying off for Mr. Reilly personally. After weathering rumors that his job was threatened, Mr. Reilly has seen his position solidified by the addition of this season's biggest new hit, ''Heroes,'' as well as several other series that he said have ''picked up buzz,'' if not yet ratings.
 In that category he mentioned the comedy ''30 Rock'' and the drama ''Friday Night Lights.'' He called those shows ''too good to not leave them on.'' Mr. Reilly all but committed to bringing ''30 Rock'' back next season, saying, ''I'd be surprised if that went until May'' before the network announced it would renew the comedy.
 Alluding obliquely to his own situation, he said, ''There has been a lot of conjecture and instability,'' but now, he said, confidence has returned to the network's program department. ''Shockingly, weirdly, it's become fun again,'' he said.
 NBC managed to finish the first half of the television season tied in some areas with CBS and ABC for ratings leadership. But National Football League games on Sunday nights are gone from NBC, and ''Idol'' is back, so those standings will not last much longer.
 Still, Mr. Reilly said, ''We're one show away from really moving the momentum in the other direction.''
 The next batch of potential shows from NBC will include far more closed-ended dramas, he said, with fewer serialized shows, many of which failed this season. He also said NBC's comedies ''will continue to be bold.''
 One bold move that NBC may be the first to try is moving a show from the Internet to broadcast-network television. NBC ordered scripts based on a pilot called ''Nobody's Watching,'' which gained wide exposure after playing on YouTube. Mr. Reilly said the show might have a chance to leap from the Web to the network next season.
 One Web-based experiment that the network is sure to try, perhaps as soon as this spring, is putting a batch of the network's pilots online: even as they are being screened by NBC executives. ''Let that audience weigh in,'' Mr. Reilly said. Among other subjects Mr. Reilly discussed was a new plan for the comedy ''Scrubs,'' which had been thought to be in its last season. It has scored impressively for NBC on Thursday nights, and now the network is seriously considering bringing it back again next season, Mr. Reilly said.
 One deepening area of concern for NBC is its daytime lineup of soaps. One series, ''Passions,'' has already been canceled, and Mr. Reilly pointedly declined to commit to NBC's most venerable soap, ''Days of Our Lives,'' beyond its current contract, which runs out in 2009. The soap opera genre has become ''very, very tough for us financially,'' Mr. Reilly said.
 Surprisingly, he said, one of NBC's pillars of profitability, late night, is also under some ''economic pinch,'' even though the network continues to dominate there with Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien. He reconfirmed NBC's plan to replace Mr. Leno on ''The Tonight Show'' with Mr. O'Brien in 2009, even though he acknowledged that Mr. Leno could decide to create a show on another network.
 ''Jay's been a company guy and a team player for a long time,'' Mr. Reilly said, adding, ''I hope we can figure out the right arrangement'' to keep him at NBC.
 The network has an offer on the table for Mr. Leno with ideas for shows in both prime time and late night, Mr. Reilly said. But he conceded that the decision about where Mr. Leno will wind up after he leaves ''Tonight'' will ''go right to the end'' of his current deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%) Television; Ratings and Rating Systems; Television; Computers and the Internet; Television

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Nbc Universal; Abc Inc; Cbs Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: Bill Carter; Kevin Reilly

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



359 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; BASICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Some Bling for Your Blog

BYLINE: By SCOTT KIRSNER

 BODY:
PASTOR BOB HYATT acknowledges that his widget fixation may be getting a little out of control.
 On his Web log, Pastor Hyatt, the leader of the Evergreen Community in Portland, Ore., has woven in widgets, or mini-applications, that show a selection of book covers from his personal library, present the most recent posts from some of his favorite blogs, and serve up random quotes from the television show ''Arrested Development.''
''You start small, and it's kind of like an addiction,'' said Pastor Hyatt (his blog is at bobhyatt.typepad.com). ''TypePad has a whole section of widgets, and they're adding more all the time,'' he continued, referring to a popular blog-hosting service.
 According to the Pew Internet and American Life Project, about 12 million Americans now maintain a blog. Widgets are elements, often in the left or right columns of a blog, that enhance its usefulness or aesthetic appeal. (The term ''widgets,'' confusingly, can also refer to compact applications that operate on a computer's desktop.) 
 ''Widgets pull content or services from some other place on the Web, and put it into your personal page,'' said Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist at Union Square Ventures in Manhattan. 
 Typically, they're built with Flash software from Adobe, or the JavaScript programming language, which ensures that they work with most Web browsers. Mr. Wilson's blog, A VC (avc.blogs.com), displays one of the Web's largest widget collections, including a photo album from the site Flickr and others that highlight his music collection. 
 But while widgets are growing in popularity -- the first major conference dedicated to ''the emerging widget economy'' was held in November in San Francisco -- they can still be perplexing to bloggers and readers. And some are wondering whether a blog can become weighed down by too many widgets.
 Ed Anuff, a co-founder of Widgetbox.com, divides widgets into three categories. ''One is self-expression widgets, like photo galleries, games or YouTube videos that you like,'' he said. The second category includes widgets that generate revenue for a blogger, like a box that displays auctions from a particular eBay category, or a blogger's favorite DVDs from Amazon.com. 
 The third category, Mr. Anuff said, encompasses ''site-enhancement widgets, like discussion forums, news feeds or a guest book, which provide better utility for your Web site.'' Widgetbox is a site begun in September that collects widgets, spotlighting the newest and most popular ones; it offers more than 500 widgets.
 According to Widgetbox, its most popular widget allows bloggers to incorporate an updated feed of news items from the site Digg into their blogs. Matt Mullenweg, creator of the WordPress blogging software, says the widgets that his users have been incorporating into their sites lately include Meebo, an instant-messaging application that allows blog authors to chat with their visitors. 
 ''One of my favorites,'' Mr. Mullenweg said, ''is the Sphere It widget, which pops up a window to show you articles and other blog posts related to what you're reading.''
 Widgets don't benefit only blog visitors; some exist primarily for the benefit of blog publishers, showing, for instance, which other blogs are linking to their posts. Veronica Perez, who maintains Veronica's Test Kitchen from her home in Richmond, Va., uses widgets from SiteMeter and BlogTopSites to monitor how much traffic her blog is getting, and where it ranks among other food-related blogs. 
 Just before Thanksgiving, ''I noticed that my blog hits increased by 200 percent, and it was because of a turkey post I had just put on my blog,'' she said by e-mail. ''It's nice to have a summary of the numbers.''
 Most widgets are available free, though they usually carry links or logos that promote the site that supplies them, and they sometimes have advertising. 
 As with other phenomena that make up the wave known as Web 2.0, blog widgets don't always have clear revenue potential. ''As a widget user, it's not my problem to worry about how they're going to make money,'' said Guy Kawasaki, an author, blogger and venture capitalist. ''But as an investor, would I invest in a widget company giving things away for free? It's hard to see a business model for it, other than to hope that Google buys you.'' 
 (This month, Yahoo bought the widget developer MyBlogLog, which uses photos to help bloggers highlight the people who make up their readership.)
 Mr. Anuff predicted, however, that ''by the second half of 2007, some widgets will shift to a subscription basis.'' 
 For some sites that offer fee-based services, widgets can act as roadside billboards that help lure traffic. LibraryThing, based in Portland, Me., is a Web site that allows users to catalog the books they own. For a library of more than 200 books, a user is asked to pay $10 a year. 
 The site's widget, which Pastor Hyatt has included in his blog, allows users to show books they've recently added to their collections, or simply display random book covers; it also includes a link to LibraryThing. ''Our widget is basically an advertisement sitting on someone's blog,'' said Tim Spalding, founder of LibraryThing.
 Adding widgets to a blog can be as simple as changing a water filter attached to a faucet; rarely does it require delving too deeply into a site's plumbing. Some blog hosting services, like WordPress.com, make it easy to incorporate widgets into a blog, by selecting one from a list and simply dragging it into the desired place on the page. 
 Others require that a snippet of HTML or JavaScript code be pasted into the proper spot on a blog's template, which can be challenging for novices. (The template is the page, written in HTML code, that specifies the design elements that will be used on all other blog pages.) 
 Widgetbox tries to reduce the complexity of adding and subtracting widgets by allowing users to insert a bit of code in their blogs once, and then they can configure and manage individual widgets from the Widgetbox site. Some sites, like MySpace, make it difficult to add widgets from outside providers, fearing security breaches and performance problems. 
 ''If you're a serious blogger, you'll teach yourself any of the tech stuff needed to make your site better,'' Stephen Kirkwood, a blogger in Brighton, England, wrote by e-mail. Mr. Kirkwood's blog, The Seagull Has Landed, chronicles his world travels. One widget he has incorporated, from ClustrMaps, puts dots on a map of the world to show where visitors to Mr. Kirkwood's site are located.
 To blog visitors, widgets can sometimes seem opaque, with few instructions. ''Widget creators are trying to work with limited screen real estate, and the net result is that the visitor sometimes winds up asking, 'What is this, and what should I be doing with it?' '' Mr. Wilson said 
 Mr. Anuff suggests that bloggers create a blog entry that introduces readers to each new widget they add.
 Since most widgets rely on distant Web servers to supply fresh information, they can cause a blog to behave sluggishly. 
 Pastor Hyatt says he has fielded some complaints that the collection of widgets on his blog causes the page to appear too slowly. ''I probably need to institute a blog spring cleaning, maybe go through once a year and clean some stuff out,'' he said.
 Mr. Kawasaki refers to widgets as ''digital bling.'' (Mr. Kawasaki's blog, How to Change the World, is among the 50 most popular blogs, according to the ranking site Technorati.) He says he enjoys experimenting with new widgets on his blog, but is wary of getting carried away. ''I don't intend to be Mr. T, but I don't want to be Audrey Hepburn, either, with just a string of pearls,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A collection of widgets from Widgetbox.com, clockwise from lower left: Mini-Clock is a decorative timekeeper that users can personalize
from ChipIn, a listing that provides up-to-date progress on a fund-raiser or social event
Flood It is a game visitors can play, using colors
Streampad Music Player creates a playlist to listen to
Blufr is another game, based on trivia questions
a YouTube viewer allows visitors to search and view videos
from Digg, a display of feeds from the news-collecting site
 a Plazes.com map to show places you have been and where you are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (63%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) Computers and the Internet; Blogs and Blogging (Internet)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: Scott Kirsner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



360 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares Dip on Worries Over Interest Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street finished lower yesterday after the Federal Reserve reported slow but steady regional economic growth, deflating hopes for an interest rate cut that had already been diminished by a larger-than-expected rise in the Producer Price Index.
 Rate worries trumped the optimism of investors after strong earnings in the financial services sector, which earlier in the day helped nudge the Dow Jones industrial average above 12,600 for the first time. 
The Labor Department said before the market opened that the producer index, an indicator of inflation, rose 0.9 percent in December -- slower than in November, but faster than the market expected.
 Later in the day, the Fed reported in its beige book of regional economic conditions that the economy was moderating at a steady pace. 
 The reports suggested to investors that the Fed might raise rates to curb inflation, a move that could crimp consumer spending and hurt corporate profits. The markets are now bracing for the Consumer Price Index, to be released today.
 ''Inflation may be a worry, and that is Job 1 at the Fed: to control inflation,'' said Kim Caughey, equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. 
 Also weighing on stocks was a rebound in oil prices and an outlook from the chip maker Intel that suggested profits in the technology sector might weaken this year.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.44 points, or 0.04 percent, to 12,577.15, after hitting an intraday high of 12,614 and after three consecutive days of record closes.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.28 points, or 0.09 percent, to 1,430.62, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 18.36 points, or 0.74 percent, to 2,479.42. 
 Crude oil for February delivery rose $1.03, to settle at $52.24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Inflation concerns had been eased by a recent tumble in crude oil prices.
 Strong earnings reports from financial services companies Charles Schwab, JPMorgan Chase and Mellon Financial gave a positive economic picture, but those stocks failed to rally on the news as some investors expected even more robust earnings and worried about signs of worsening credit quality. Shares of Charles Schwab fell 49 cents, to $19.69; JPMorgan rose 4 cents, to $48.43; and Mellon declined 51 cents, to $42.91.
 Struggling home builders got a boost after the chief executive of Lennar said the company would fare the same or better in 2007 than it did in 2006. The comments bolstered the hopes of investors that the housing market had nowhere to go but up.
 Shares of Lennar rose $2.23, to $51.95; KB Home gained $1.13, to $50.35; Toll Brothers increased 35 cents, to $31.68; and Centex climbed $1.19, to $52.80.
 The technology sector pulled back after Intel said late Tuesday that fourth-quarter profit plunged and that 2007 profit margins would be weaker than analysts had expected. Intel dropped $1.26, to $21.04.
 After the market closed, Apple reported record first-quarter profit that beat analysts' expectations. Shares of Apple, however, fell $2.15, to $94.95, in regular trading as technology stocks in general tumbled. They declined another 78 cents after the results were announced. Analysts said that the decline was in response to Apple's conservative guidance for the next quarter.
 The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 98 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.78 percent, from 4.75 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.619
High Rate: 4.895
Coupon Yield: 4.982
Low Rate: 4.860
Median Rate: 4.880
Total applied for: $26,914,591
Accepted: $11,551,871
Noncompetitive: $327,737

The four-week bills mature February 15, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (87%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (84%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTEL CORP (83%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (52%); KB HOME CORP (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (52%); KBH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



361 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Say House Energy Bill Will Pass

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
House Democrats, brushing aside objections from the Bush administration, said on Wednesday that they had ample votes to pass a bill on Thursday that would eliminate $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for oil companies and channel the money to renewable-energy projects.
 In a sign of how political sentiment on energy issues has shifted, lawmakers in both parties expect the bill to draw considerable support from Republicans, many of whom voted in favor of the tax breaks three years ago. 
On Wednesday, the White House said it ''strongly opposes'' several provisions in the bill but only hinted at a possible veto if the bill increased overall government spending in 2007 above limits that Mr. Bush set last year.
 Few lawmakers expect Mr. Bush to resort to a veto, if only because the energy bill would lead to a tiny increase in revenue in its first year.
 Much of the criticism involves two provisions, one that would repeal a major tax break for oil and gas drillers and a second that would pressure oil companies to renegotiate certain offshore leases. The leases allow them to avoid billions of dollars in royalties on oil and gas produced in publicly owned waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
 In a statement of the administration's position, the White House said the bill would unfairly single out the oil industry by making it ineligible for a tax break offered to ''domestic manufacturers.'' The tax break was created in 2004, mainly to compensate manufacturing companies that had been forced to give up a separate tax break for exporters. Oil companies had never qualified for the export tax break, but were included in the definition of ''domestic manufacturing.''
 The administration also reiterated its opposition to a provision that would pressure oil companies to renegotiate the offshore drilling leases. 
 The bill, which would also repeal several smaller royalty incentives that Congress passed in 2005, would raise about $6.3 billion over 10 years in additional royalties from oil and gas companies. The provisions that repeal several tax breaks would raise about $7.6 billion over the same period.
 In its statement, the administration said it agreed that drilling companies had no need for federal incentives. But it opposed what it said was an effort to force companies into renegotiating contracts that the government had signed.
 The measure would pressure companies to renegotiate leases they signed with the federal government in 1998 and 1999, when the Interior Department inadvertently allowed them lucrative royalty incentives regardless of how high oil and gas prices might climb.
 The measure would punish companies that refuse to accept ''price thresholds'' -- clauses that were included in leases for other years that eliminated the royalty incentives if oil prices rose above about $34 a barrel. Companies that refuse to change their leases would be required to either pay a ''conservation fee'' of $9 for each barrel of oil they produce on the leases or give up their right to acquire any additional leases.
 The oil industry has criticized the proposals, saying they signed the leases in good faith and should not be forced to change them because the government made a mistake.
 The Bush administration has echoed those concerns, saying that the leasing errors occurred during the Clinton administration and that it is trying to persuade companies to make voluntary changes. So far, five companies that own about 20 percent of the leases have agreed to alterations. But many of the biggest players in the gulf, including Chevron and Exxon Mobil, have refused.
 Senate Democrats are expected to support the royalty provisions of the House bill. On Wednesday, Senate Democrats on the Joint Economic Committee argued that the government spends billions of dollars on royalty incentives for offshore drillers yet gets little in the way of increased production.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said he would seek the elimination of all royalty incentive programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); OIL & GAS LEASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (89%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); MINERAL LEASES (77%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); PRODUCT PRICING (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Law and Legislation; Finances

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



362 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Some Signs of Economic Resilience Seen

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
A tight labor market is pushing up many workers' wages, consumers are spending more at their local shopping malls and the skid in the housing market is easing in some areas of the country. 
 These observations, reported in the latest regional survey of economic conditions by the Federal Reserve, offered further evidence that the economy is expanding at a slower pace, but one that has so far defied predictions of a sharper slowdown.
The Fed's report, known as the beige book from its jacket cover, came amid other signs of economic resilience yesterday. 
 A survey of industrial production showed unexpected growth last month. Furthermore, a sampling of confidence among home builders rose in December. 
 Together, the findings are consistent with some other signs of a muted but healthy expansion -- including job growth and rising stock prices -- that have come into clearer focus recently.
 Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, commented: ''In the last few weeks we've been getting a string of data that consistently seem to point to an economy that is turning out to be stronger than anyone expected. We really are shifting into a higher gear.''
 Yet there were reminders on two fronts yesterday that resurgent inflation could counterbalance such positive data. In remarks at an economic conference in Scottsdale, Ariz., the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Janet L. Yellen, said that a labor market ''going gangbusters'' could touch off a spike in prices. And a Labor Department report showed that the prices businesses charge one another for a wide range of wholesale goods rose in December. 
 The Producer Price Index increased 0.9 percent last month and 1.1 percent for all of 2006, significantly slower than 2005 but fast enough to give some investors and economists pause. Stocks closed down yesterday after a day of mixed trading. 
 Food became a lot more expensive in December, causing much of the overall increase. The prices of fruit and vegetables jumped by more than one-fifth. Chicken and fish also cost significantly more than in November. And economists noted that with freezing temperatures laying waste to crops in California in recent days, food prices are likely to increase further.
 Rising energy costs also contributed to the overall increase in producer prices. Gasoline climbed 7.1 percent and home heating oil was up 4 percent. Still, the rate of increase was down significantly from November.
 Some economists said that the new report was not likely to change any minds among Federal Reserve policy makers as they consider whether to change their essentially neutral stance on interest rates when they meet at the end of the month. The Fed generally gives more weight to the Consumer Price Index, which will be released today, as a gauge of inflation in the economy. 
 Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, said, ''The fact is that when you look at the correlation between the Producer Price Index and the price increases the Fed watches more closely, there's not real high month-to-month correlation.''
 Whether the rise in wholesale costs portends a rise in prices for consumers is unclear, and economists dispute this point. 
 ''We're starting to see some yellow flags now,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''I won't call them red, but there are some flags.''
 The beige book, which surveyed economic conditions from late in November through early January, said that overall inflation was moderate, and in some cases appeared to be stabilizing. In New York, for example, businesses reported some increase in cost pressures, ''but no discernable acceleration in consumer prices.''
 John Shin, an economist with Lehman Brothers, said the overall theme of the report -- moderate and healthy overall growth -- was consistent with what Fed officials have been saying recently about the state of the economy. ''The basic message of the Fed is still one of fairly strong inertia,'' he said.
 While wages rose moderately in most regions, there was little evidence that businesses increased prices as a result. Finding workers, especially skilled ones, continued to be a problem for businesses in most parts of the country. The Kansas City Fed reported worker shortages of many kinds, in groups as diverse as hotel housekeepers and accountants. In West Virginia, a retailer reported having to pay lower-wage workers more because competition for their services was so tight.
 Almost all housing markets experienced continued softening. But real estate activity in Manhattan remained relatively isolated from the price declines, with sales of co-ops and condominiums rising noticeably. Manhattan rents rose by an estimated 5 percent on average, with the increases on small apartments steeper.
 The Fed's report noted that a ''significant proportion'' of new condos were being purchased by investors, who turn around and rent the units.
 Commercial real estate activity was even stronger. Vacancy rates in Lower Manhattan and Midtown fell to their lowest levels in more than five years. In upstate New York and New Jersey, however, sales were sluggish, the report said.
 Elsewhere, there were signs that the market was leveling off. In Richmond, Va., for example, real estate agents said sales grew 9 percent in December compared with a year earlier. In Minneapolis and St. Paul, where inventories of unsold homes declined, contractors are adapting to the slowdown by focusing on remodeling rather than new construction.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982=100, seasonally adjusted.Dec.: +0.9%Nov.: +2.0Oct.: -1.6Graph tracks finished goods prices since 2005.(Source by Labor Department)Chart/Map: ''Modest Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data is for Nov. 21-Jan. 8.MINNEAPOLISSlight growth in consumer spending, manufacturing, energy and mining. Labor market tightened.SAN FRANCISCO (Includes Alaska and Hawaii)''Solid sales'' reported by retailers. Demand was strong in the manufacting and farming sectors.CHICAGOConsumer spending increased at a moderate rate. Business spending and hiring rose. Farmers showed increased interest in corn.CLEVELANDEconomy remained flat as business and consumers are cautious about their outlook. Manufacturing production was stable.BOSTONRevenue increased in many industries. Retailers reported disappointing sales, as the housing industry slowed.NEW YORKCost pressures increased, but no accleration in consumer prices. Holiday retail sales were slightly above plan.PHILADELPHIAManufacturers report moderate increase in shipments, and the rate of new orders was stable. Auto sales ''remained weak.''RICHMOND, VA.Retail sales were solid, and remain strong. Housing market increased, while there was a decline in manufacturing.ATLANTAModerate increase in retail sales. Weakness in the housing market, especially in Florida.ST. LOUISManufacturers reported a softening in activity. Service sector showed growth. Home sales declined. Commercial real estate ''firmed.''KANSAS CITY, MO.Consumer spending was mixed. Manufacturing expanded at a slower rate and commercial real estate remained solid.DALLASEconomy ''continued to decelerate.'' Manufacturing softened. Retailers reported growth was weaker than expected.Map of the United States highlighting above mentioned cities.(Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); HEATING OIL (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); WEATHER (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries; Housing; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



363 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

BUYOUT BATTLE FOR REIT -- A group of investors offered $38 billion for Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office landlord, topping a $36 billion deal that Equity Office had reached with the Blackstone Group, and setting off the biggest buyout battle since the landmark fight for RJR Nabisco nearly two decades ago. [Page C1.] 


OFFER FOR TRIBUNE CO. -- As the deadline for bids for the Tribune Company came and went, the team of Eli Broad and Ronald W. Burkle made an audacious offer to give the company an infusion of cash and become the largest shareholder with a 31 percent stake. [C1.]

WEB ADS AND DANCING COWBOYS -- Even as online advertisements are becoming less obtrusive, LowerMyBills.com is a stubborn holdout, with its ubiquitous Web banners featuring two-stepping cowboys, frisky rooftop dancers and weird tattoos. Some say the undulating characters in the ads are highly distracting and have so little to do with low-interest loans that they border on the surreal. Advertising. [C1.]

MORE VARIETY IN FOREIGN CARS -- Foreign automakers are introducing new models at the high and low ends of their respective brands that may cause some unintended double-takes among consumers. [C1.]

APPLE POSTS BIG PROFIT -- Apple Inc., brushing by even optimistic analyst expectations, delivered $1 billion in profit in the quarter, based largely on the Christmas performance of its iPod. [C10.]

PUSH FOR EMISSIONS CONTROLS -- Congressional Democrats are increasingly determined to wrest control of the global-warming debate from the White House and impose the kind of mandatory controls on carbon-dioxide emissions that most smokestack industries have long opposed. [A24.]

REGAN IMPRINT TO SHUT DOWN -- HarperCollins announced that it planned to close ReganBooks, the imprint created by Judith Regan, left, the editor who was fired last month after public outcry over a book and television deal with O. J. Simpson. The imprint will close March 1. [C5.]

CASH SHORTAGE FOR DISASTER FUND -- The federal government's biggest program to help people rebuild after natural disasters is on the verge of running out of money because of budgeting problems at the agency that runs it, the Small Business Administration. [A1.]

SIGNS OF ECONOMIC RESILIENCE -- A tight labor market is pushing up many workers' wages, consumers are spending more at shopping malls and the skid in the housing market is easing in some areas of the country, according to the latest regional survey of economic conditions by the Federal Reserve. [C4.]

DEAL FOR OUTLET MALLS -- The Mills Corporation, the owner of suburban outlet malls, said that it had agreed to be acquired for $1.4 billion by Brookfield Asset Management. Brookfield, a public company that owns high-quality office buildings like the World Financial Center in Lower Manhattan, will pay $21 a share for Mills, an 18 percent premium. [C18.]

DIGITAL MUSIC UP SHARPLY -- Sales of digitally distributed music rose about 80 percent in 2006 but failed to make up for falling sales of compact discs, a trade group said. [C5.]

SIGNAL ON SATELLITE MERGER -- The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Kevin Martin, said that Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio Holdings would not win approval of a merger under current regulatory rules. [C5.]

RETAILER IN DATA BREACH -- The TJX Companies, the retailer that operates the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls discount clothing chains, has joined the ignominious list of companies that have had sensitive customer financial data pilfered. [C11.]

DEMOCRATS TO ACT ON ROYALTIES -- House Democrats, brushing aside objections from the Bush administration, said that they had ample votes to pass a bill that would eliminate $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for oil companies and channel the money to renewable energy projects. [C12.]

AIRBUS FORECASTS LOSS -- Airbus warned that major production delays on its twin-deck A380 jet would probably push it to an operating loss for 2006, despite a record number of deliveries. [C17.]

AIRLINES POST MIXED RESULTS -- The AMR Corporation earned a surprise fourth-quarter profit and Southwest Airlines said that net income fell, demonstrating how fuel-pricing decisions dictate carriers' finances even when planes are full. [C17.]

G.E. SAID TO BE NEAR DEAL -- General Electric is near a deal to buy Abbott Laboratories' medical diagnostics unit for more than $5 billion, according to people involved in the negotiations. [C18.]

SHARES DIP ON RATE CONCERNS -- Wall Street finished lower after the Federal Reserve reported slow but steady regional economic growth, deflating hopes for an interest rate cut. [C21.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

THE LENNAR CORPORATION, one of the nation's biggest homebuilders, reported a fourth-quarter loss, in contrast to a large profit a year ago, but the company's stock rose as it discussed 2007 earnings goals that, if reached, would surpass analysts' expectations. (AP)

MELLON FINANCIAL, the investment manager that is being acquired by Bank of New York, said that fourth-quarter earnings rose 14 percent on an increase in fees for overseeing hedge funds and mutual funds. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of The Mills Corporation shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); DANCERS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); NEW CAR MODELS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); EMISSIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); CLOSINGS (68%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (64%); DISMISSALS (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); BX (NYSE) (58%); BAMA (AMS) (50%); BAM.A (TSX) (50%); BAM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (55%); ELI BROAD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



364 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 391 words

PERSON: Thomas A. Lyson

HEADLINE: Thomas Lyson, 58, Cornell Sociologist Who Studied Rural Towns

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

 BODY:
Thomas A. Lyson, an influential sociologist at Cornell who argued that rural towns and small farms could survive economically by selling locally produced goods to regional markets, died on Dec. 28 in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 58. 
 The cause was cancer, his family said.
Dr. Lyson explored his idea in a book, ''Civic Agriculture: Reconnecting Farm, Food and Community'' (2004), in which he made a case for rural communities to rethink their traditional crops and instead produce organic ones, plus cheeses, wines and other niche goods. 
 He criticized what he saw as an increasingly globalized approach to agricultural production and its withering influence on independent family farms, which he believed form the social underpinnings of countless rural American towns. 
 At the same time, he argued that small country schools in New York State and elsewhere should not be consolidated into suburban school systems, but kept open to educate rural children where they live. Without rural schools to anchor communities, he said, a migration to larger towns would ultimately empty the countryside.
 Earlier in his career, Dr. Lyson wrote about similar issues facing the South. In a 1988 book, he examined social and economic innovations in developing cities like Atlanta and Houston and a corresponding failure of some of the region's rural towns to thrive. The book, ''High Tech, Low Tech, No Tech: Recent Occupational and Industrial Change in the South,'' was written with William W. Falk, now a professor of sociology at the University of Maryland.
 Thomas Anthony Lyson was born in Oak Park, Ill. After receiving undergraduate and master's degrees from West Virginia University, he earned his doctorate in sociology from Michigan State in 1976.
 Dr. Lyson taught at Clemson before joining Cornell in 1987. He was named a professor of development sociology at Cornell in 1992. Since 1998, he had also been a research associate at the federal Census Bureau's Center for Economic Studies. 
 Dr. Lyson is survived by his wife of 28 years, Loretta Carrillo, a senior lecturer in Romance and Latino studies at Cornell. The couple lived in Freeville, N.Y., where Dr. Lyson was mayor from 2000 to 2004 and was involved in a successful effort to retain the village's elementary school.
 He is also survived by two daughters, Helena and Mercedes, both of Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SOCIOLOGY (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RURAL SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); CANCER (72%); CHEESE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SUBURBS (53%); CENSUS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%)

Jeremy Pearce

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



365 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Operating Costs Are Imperiling Disaster Fund

BYLINE: By RON NIXON and LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
The federal government's biggest program to help people rebuild after natural disasters is on the verge of running out of operating money because of budgeting problems at the agency that runs it, the Small Business Administration.
 If Congress does not intervene in the next month or so to cover the administrative costs of the program, it will have to shut down, according to an internal agency memorandum given to The New York Times by a critic of the agency.
Agency officials say, and Congressional leaders agree, that the legislature will almost certainly act to keep the program running. ''It would be very surprising to us if they wouldn't address this,'' said Steven C. Preston, the administrator of the S.B.A. 
 But even a temporary shutdown could delay aid to victims of the ice storms in the Midwest and other recent natural disasters, and would further hamper a program that was widely criticized for its slow response to the hurricanes that hit the Gulf Coast in 2005. 
 The current money shortage is related to what agency officials concede was an unusual decision in early 2005 not to ask Congress for any money to pay for running the disaster program in the 2006 fiscal year, relying instead on money left over from previous disasters. The program also ran into financial trouble last year and required an emergency infusion of money in February.
 Longtime critics of the agency said the current problem highlighted a continuing pattern of mismanagement and poor planning at the S.B.A. 
 ''We need to look at a comprehensive overhaul of the agency as well as the disaster loan program,'' said Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York and the new chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee. ''Something has to change in the management of this agency.''
 After the 2005 hurricanes, the agency did not have enough employees to handle the 423,000 loan applications it ultimately received from homeowners and businesses, and had switched to a troubled computer system that slowed its disaster response. The Government Accountability Office cited the agency's poor planning as a factor in ''significant delays and backlogs in processing loan applications.''
 In the face of withering criticism from disaster victims, government officials and even agency employees, the director of the agency, Hector V. Barreto, resigned last April. His successor, Mr. Preston, has pledged to improve the disaster response.
 The small-business agency has now approved more than $8 billion in loans to homeowners trying to rebuild after the hurricanes, according to its own data, but has distributed less than half of that amount. Businesses have received loans of about $1.2 billion, although the agency has approved almost $2.6 billion in loans.
 In the Senate, Democrats have proposed major changes to the disaster assistance program, including allowing banks to make disaster loans, rather than funneling them all through the S.B.A.'s staff. 
 ''The administration mismanaged the response to Katrina from Day 1,'' Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and the new chairman of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, said in a statement yesterday. ''We need legislation to overhaul the program and make it work efficiently for every business owner and homeowner in the country.''
 But Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine and the former head of the committee, blamed Congress for the current financial problem, saying it stemmed from lawmakers' failure to approve the agency's budget request for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, which agency officials said included about $200 million to run the disaster program.
 ''It is unacceptable that at a time when we are all too aware of how valuable these programs are to American families whose lives have been turned upside down by disaster, we were unable to provide the S.B.A. with the funding it requested for this fiscal year,'' Ms. Snowe said in a statement yesterday.
 The Republican-led Congress passed 2 of 11 spending bills last year. The new Democratic leadership decided to keep most government agencies operating by extending their current budget levels and is expected to continue those spending levels until fall. 
 The 2006 budget is the one that did not ask for money to operate the disaster program. According to the internal memorandum, which was prepared by the agency's chief financial officer, Jennifer Main, the agency needs $306 million for administrative costs in the current fiscal year but had only $157 million left as of Sept. 30. 
 The short-term problem could be solved, as in the past, if Congress allows the agency to cover administrative costs by dipping into some of the money it has allocated for loans, said C. Edward Rowe III, the agency's chief liaison to Congress. 
 But Ms. Velazquez said she would oppose such a measure. ''I am not willing to take money out of disaster money intended for victims to cover administrative costs,'' she said.
 The agency is also facing a shortfall of about $20 million in its regular budget, which has dropped by about 30 percent since 2001. According to the memorandum, the shortfall could require the agency to take drastic steps, including furloughing every one of its employees one day a month until the end of September. 
 ''We don't really think Congress will forget to fund disaster assistance,'' said Joel Szabat, the agency's chief of staff. ''The real issue is the $20 million.''
 Under the disaster loan program, homeowners can borrow up to $200,000 at low interest rates to repair houses; owners and renters can borrow up to $40,000 to replace damaged furnishings. Businesses of any size can borrow up to $1.5 million to cover physical losses, and some small businesses are eligible for loans to cover economic losses. Maximum interest rates range from 4 percent to 8 percent.
 The disaster loan program also serves as a screening mechanism for some grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which referred 2.4 million people to the S.B.A after the hurricanes. Only after they are rejected by the S.B.A. do applicants become eligible for some FEMA grants.
 The homeowner loan program has come under fire in Louisiana and Mississippi because it is requiring people who receive federally financed recovery grants through state-run programs to use the money to repay S.B.A. loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%) Disasters; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Rita (Storm); Disasters

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%) Small Business Administration; Government Accountability Office

PERSON: NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (57%) Ron Nixon; Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States; New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



366 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Aging and Shut, Iraq Factories May Reopen and Mitigate Ills

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: RAMADI, Iraq, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Inside a huge shuttered factory on the gritty western fringes of this outlaw desert town, thousands of ornate porcelain sinks, toilets and other fixtures sit in row after row next to the automated ovens and assembly lines that once churned out the products but lie silent under a thin film of yellow desert dust.
 However, neither the fancy ceramics nor the machines appear to be damaged, a miracle that no one can quite explain in one of the most dangerous cities of a country that looters have ravaged since 2003.
 Whatever the explanation, some American and Iraqi officials believe that surviving factories like this one -- once considered inefficient, government-subsidized behemoths -- could present a last chance of sorts for dealing with two problems that have remained stubbornly unsolved since the invasion: Iraq's reconstruction and its insurgency. 
 The factories, state-owned enterprises under Saddam Hussein's government, would appear to be the unlikeliest of saviors -- things like a bus factory in an ethnically riven area south of Baghdad, a tomato paste factory in the Kurdish north, and a second plant in Ramadi that makes floor tiles with silk-screened floral patterns. The factories went dark after the invasion for a variety of reasons, including an insistence by the initial American occupation authority that once they closed, vibrant free markets would spring into existence to fill the void.
 But neither those markets nor the expected commercial and social benefits of the $30 billion American-financed reconstruction program have materialized. So a few officials and local leaders are returning to the shuttered plants in hopes of finding a cheaper way to help the economy and perhaps create jobs to attract young men who might otherwise join the insurgency.
 The dusty old plants are more evocative of guys with lunch pails than the big thinkers who once believed that expensive American reconstruction projects would remake the face of Iraq. ''Any opportunity to re-employ more people and give the government a chance to get income from these factories is important,'' said Sheik Abdul Sattar Buzaigh al-Rishawi, an Anbar tribal leader, as he toured the porcelain and tile factories in his flowing black-and-gold robes. ''Especially in this time when Anbar is experiencing terrorism.'' 
 The sheik added, in reference to the idle Iraqis who put the unemployment rate at anywhere from an estimated 30 percent to 60 percent, ''They are normal human beings -- they would rather work than make violence.''
 In Ramadi on Tuesday, Sheik Sattar and several Iraqi officials, including the Anbar governor and the manager of the ceramics plant, met with Paul A. Brinkley, a senior Pentagon official who, following up on a tip from the American military command, has taken it upon himself to push the revival of state-owned enterprises that he thinks can be restarted with modest financing.
 ''That factory could be running in a week,'' Mr. Brinkley said just after the visit. ''It's amazing to me in this city, after all that this city has gone through, that a factory with that level of robotic equipment is still in that kind of condition.''
 Still, the meeting -- in an unheated second-floor conference room within a ransacked office building next to the plant -- revealed some of the barriers that this last-ditch effort is likely to face. Those barriers include vast inertia within the Iraqi government bureaucracy and questions about whether even the small amounts of cash needed for the effort will be forthcoming from either Iraqi or American sources.
 There are also serious questions on whether officials in the focus of the United States presence in Iraq, within the fortified Green Zone in Baghdad, are ready to support factories that were seen as no more than relics of an era that American ingenuity and reconstruction were going to make forever obsolete.
 As with so much else in Iraq, there is no clear measure of how extensive the network of state-owned industries is, although the government lists at least 192 companies outside the energy and security sectors. Government and business officials estimate that more than 600,000 employees are still receiving at least some of their salaries, even though almost all of the factories are closed.
 After presiding over the collapse of that network in the early days of the war, the United States now appears ready to lend some help to Mr. Brinkley's efforts to revive parts of it. Maj. Gen. Darryl A. Scott, who leads the Joint Contracting Command for Iraq and Afghanistan and is based in Baghdad, said in an interview that he was making a push to use Iraqi companies for supplying things like housing and basic services for the American military here.
 General Scott said that although his prime goal was not revitalizing factories, if one of the companies Mr. Brinkley was working with made the right product, it would be given fair consideration. ''It's kind of a version of matchmaking,'' he said.
 How far that process will take Mr. Brinkley's effort is unclear. Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador, said in a recent interview that he was in favor of using military purchases to give Iraqi companies a boost, but that ultimately the United States would promote private enterprise over government entities. "That's obviously the right thing to do,'' he said. ''The question is, how do you get from here to there?''
 But a senior United States official said he believed that at least until recently, officials at the center of American power here, in the Green Zone, had retained their unbending orientation toward privatization. The official said that he asked Americans in the Green Zone why they were buying buses abroad for use in Iraq when a struggling state-owned Iraqi firm in Iskandariya, south of Baghdad, was making a similar vehicle.
 ''The answer was shocking,'' the official said. ''It was, 'We've denied these people access to the global free market for 15 years; I'm not going to go back to them and say that you've got to buy buses from some state-owned enterprise.' ''
 During a visit last week to Erbil, in Iraq's Kurdish north, Mr. Brinkley said in a meeting with local officials that when the enterprises ''are laying idle due to our policy of shutting them off, we have an obligation to restore them to the Iraqi people.''
 Each of the factories comes with different and highly specific challenges, a fact illustrated by the closed tomato paste factory in Erbil, which Mr. Brinkley also visited. With distribution across Iraq before the invasion, the factory limped along for a while afterward and as recently as 2004 produced 804,210 cans -- ''without loss of one can due to quality,'' said the plant engineer, Satar S. Mustafa.
 Since then, a financial group in Erbil has bought the modest-sized factory, with its shiny chutes, choppers, ovens and other equipment. But the operation is still waiting for what the Erbil group hopes is an American investor, said Azzat M. Othman, who is the group's executive manager and says he worked on Wall Street in various capacities for 25 years before returning home to Kurdistan.
 ''What we are really looking for is an investor who has an interest in this type of operation,'' said Mr. Othman, who estimates that the factory will generate 100 to 150 jobs.
 The porcelain factory is another case entirely. When a worker unlocks a set of big metal doors and slides them back with a boom, a darkened interior perhaps 100 yards in either direction shelters machinery that looks as if it had just been purchased. Half-finished sinks sit in rows along the assembly lines like sculptures left by some artist who intended to return and complete the work with a few strokes of the chisel.
 And there is inventory. An assessment by the American occupation officials who shut this factory concluded that it was too small and inefficient to turn a profit in a competitive marketplace, but sinks with paisley and vine patterns look as if they could be sitting on shelves at Home Depot. The toilets are sturdy.
 The Iraqis, who intend to keep the plant within the government and say that it could start up again if given an allocation of electricity, insisted that an American take one of the sinks as a sample. It was shoved into one of the armored vehicles belonging to the American military unit that brought the officials here.
 But even if everything else here works perfectly, the question hovering over the project is whether the factory will be attacked now that it is associated with Americans. Sheik Sattar, who has already gained fame in Iraq for leading a coalition of Anbar tribes against Al Qaeda, said that would not be a problem.
 After all, he said, the factory has remained in good condition until now. ''We protected it,'' he said. Whether the same assurances can be given for the other factories around the country remains to be seen.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the undamaged factory in Ramadi, toilets sat in rows, covered with dust, as they were when production stopped after the war started.
 On Tuesday, Iraqi and American officials visited a shut porcelain factory in Ramadi that could be reopened. (Photographs by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times) Map of Iraq shows the location of Ramadi: The Ramadi factory is in a city that has been raked by violence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DESERTS (78%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (78%); CERAMIC TILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); FLOORING (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Factories and Industrial Plants

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



367 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Happy Hours

BYLINE: By Thomas B. Edsall. 
Thomas B. Edsall, a professor of journalism at Columbia, is the author, most recently, of ''Building Red America.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SOMETHING odd happened on Capitol Hill this week. Something that seemed to start out as a publicity stunt -- the House Democratic leadership's 100-hour agenda -- actually turned into a qualified success. 
 The passage of the Democrats' eight-part legislative package -- to be completed today -- sets the stage for striking possibilities, some advantageous to the party, others threatening.
In the short term, the leadership has achieved two goals: 
 First, Democrats have shown basic competence and authority after four decades of defeat and division, whether in the majority or minority.
 Second, the House has now approved legislation directly addressing public concerns: raising the minimum wage, ethics reform, interest rate reductions on subsidized college loans and expanded federal support for stem cell research. It has put in place rule changes to promote fiscal responsibility and adopted recommendations from the 9/11 commission. Today, the House is expected to repeal tax breaks for oil companies. Poll-tested and guaranteed to be political winners, these achievements constitute a modest start toward a saleable centrist agenda for a party too often in the past labeled as extreme. 
 More important in terms of substantive future legislation, the ability of the Democrats to win over significant numbers of Republicans on most votes signals the slim but enticing possibility of Democratic mastery over a demoralized Republican Party -- one that has thrived on polarized partisan warfare in recent years.
 If the new bipartisanship takes root, the prospects for health care legislation and immigration reform sharply improve. These proposals cannot survive without backing from both Democrats and Republicans. When it comes to health care, a key corporate lobby, the Business Roundtable, has already formed a tentative alliance with organized labor, thereby giving cover to wavering members of Congress from both ends of the political spectrum. A parallel alliance among business, Roman Catholic Church leaders and progressive organizations like the National Council of La Raza has already formed in support of immigration legislation.
 Similarly, Republican willingness to cross the aisle strengthens the hand of those who want to build Congressional opposition to the Iraq war. Every Republican who joins the opposition makes it easier for Democrats in red states and districts to become public critics of the war, and for more Republicans to join with them. (Witness the suddenly outspoken Senator Gordon Smith of Oregon.) Without some measure of Republican support, Democrats who challenge the war -- particularly those who vote to deny appropriations -- run the risk of being portrayed as unpatriotic and unwilling to support American troops in the midst of battle.
 The potential for Republican defection is a new thing. Conservatives have long recognized -- and worked hard to prevent -- the danger of a breakdown in party discipline. In 1993, William Kristol, then chairman of the Project for the Republican Future, orchestrated the defeat of the Clintons' health care plan. In an influential memo, Mr. Kristol wrote: ''Any Republican urge to negotiate a 'least bad' compromise with the Democrats, and thereby gain momentary public credit for helping the president 'do something' about health care, should also be resisted. The plan should not be amended; it should be erased.'' Judging from the early days of this Congress, however, Republican solidarity has begun to erode. 
 On another front, the restoration of Congressional bipartisanship may well have unintended consequences. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has based his presidential campaign on a dysfunctional political system: ''Politics has become so bitter and partisan, so gummed up by money and influence, that we can't tackle the big problems that demand solutions,'' he told supporters this week. 
 Insofar as Congress regains efficacy, a compelling rationale of the Obama campaign is undermined. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has cast herself as working effectively within the system, can only benefit when the system appears to be functional. A functional Congress also potentially diminishes the taint of Washington tenure for candidates like Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. 
 While there are upsides to the early success of House Democrats, they are by no means home free. Many Republicans see Democrats undermining themselves with the adoption of pay-as-you-go budget rules, which require new expenditures to be accompanied by equivalent spending reductions or tax hikes. At some point, Republicans argue, Democrats will be forced to make unwelcome cuts, raise taxes, or go back on their word. With these rules, argues Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, Democrats have set the stage to once again become the ''tax and spend'' party. 
 Mr. Norquist may have a point. A yet-to-be-released post-election poll of 36,000 respondents by the Cooperative Congressional Election Survey showed virtually no public support for a tax increase. Asked to pick alternative ways to reduce the deficit, 49 percent said they would cut domestic spending, 32 percent said they would cut defense spending and only 15 percent said they would raise taxes. For freshman Democrats who won seats in centrist states like Indiana and Kansas, support for a tax increase would probably be political suicide. 
 Many Democrats acknowledge that the pressure to raise taxes will intensify, especially if expensive health care programs make it onto the agenda. Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, asked about taxes on ''Face the Nation,'' said that any tax increase would be limited to the wealthy. Taking back ''tax cuts for those making over a certain amount of money -- $500,000 a year -- might be more important to the American people than ignoring the educational and health needs of America's children,'' she said. ''We're not going to start with repealing tax cuts, but they certainly are not off the table for people making over half a million dollars a year It's an option, it's not a first resort.''
 The Democratic Party is walking a tightrope. Arguably, the party had the last election handed to it on a plate -- war, corruption, pederasty -- what more could one ask for? In addition, voter repudiation of the president's strategy in the Middle East does not mean Americans trust Democrats on national security. 
 There are plenty of other reasons to be skeptical of continued Democratic success. Middle-class anxiety about jobs, retirement and health care are in fact scarcely touched by the 100 hours. Race and ethnic prejudice have not evaporated. And George Bush won't be here to kick around forever. 
 Still, the first days of this new Democratic-led Congress turned out better than anyone might have expected. Given the party's recent Congressional history, any success is notable -- even if it's only 100 hours long.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BIOETHICS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); ETHICS (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%); RELIGION (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%) Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%) Thomas B Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



368 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: The Elusive Altar

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
If all the world were south of 96th Street, what a happy place it would be! If all the world were south of 96th Street, then we could greet with unalloyed joy the news that after decades of social change, more American women are living without husbands than with them.
 We could revel in the stories of women -- from Riverside Drive all the way to TriBeCa! -- liberated from constraining marriages and no longer smothered by self-absorbed spouses. We could celebrate with those -- the ad executives as well as the law partners! -- who now have the time and freedom to go back to school and travel abroad, and who are choosing not to get remarried. 
 But alas, there are people in this country who do not live within five miles of MoMA, and for them, the fact that many more people are getting divorced or never marrying at all is not such good news. 
 For voluminous research shows that further down the social scale there are millions of people who long to marry, but who are trapped just beyond the outskirts of matrimony. They have partners. They move in together. Often they have children with the people they love. But they never quite marry, or if they do, the marriage falls apart, with horrible consequences for their children. This is the real force behind the rise of women without men. 
 The research shows that far from rejecting traditional marriage, many people down the social scale revere it too highly. They put it on a pedestal, or as Andrew Cherlin of Johns Hopkins puts it, they regard marriage not as the foundation of adult life, but as the capstone.
 They don't want to marry until they are financially secure and emotionally mature. They don't want to marry until they can afford a big white-dress wedding and have the time to plan it. They don't want to marry until they are absolutely sure they can trust the person they are with.
 Having seen the wreckage of divorce, they are risk averse, but this risk aversion keeps them trapped in a no man's land between solitude and marriage. Often they slide into parenthood even though they consider themselves not ready for marriage. The Fragile Families study shows that nearly 90 percent of the people who are living together when their child is born plan to get married someday. But the vast majority never will.
 In her essential new book, ''Marriage and Caste in America,'' Kay Hymowitz describes the often tortuous relations between unskilled, unmarried parents. Both are committed to their child, but in many cases they have ill-defined and conflicting expectations about their roles. The fathers often feel used, Hymowitz writes, ''valued only for their not-so-deep pockets.'' The mothers feel the fathers are unreliable. There are grandparents taking sides. The relationship ends, and the child is left with one parent not two.
 It's as if there are two invisible rivers of knowledge running through society, steering people subtly toward one form of relationship or another. These rivers consist of a million small habits, expectations, tacit understandings about how people should act and map out their lives.
 Among those who are well educated and who are rewarded by the information-age economy, the invisible river reinforces the assumption that childbearing is more arduous and more elevated than marriage. One graduates from marriage to childbearing.
 But among those who are less educated and less rewarded, there is an invisible river that encourages the anomalous idea that marriage is more arduous and more elevated than childbearing. One graduates from childbearing to matrimony.
 The people in the first river are seeing their divorce rates drop and their children ever better prepared to compete. Only 10 percent of students at an elite college like Cornell are from divorced families, according to a study led by Dean Lillard and Jennifer Gerner.
 The people in the second river are falling further behind, and their children face bad odds. For them, social facts like the rise of women without men cannot be greeted with equanimity. The main struggle of their lives is not against the patriarchy.
 The first step toward a remedy, paradoxically, may be to persuade people in this second river to value marriage less, to see it less as a state of sacred bliss that cannot be approached until all the conditions are perfect, and more as a social machine, which, if accompanied with the right instruction manual, can be useful for achieving practical ends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); WOMEN (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); PARENTS (72%); FAMILY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (54%) Census; Life Styles; Marriages

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



369 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Record Price for Name on Nets' Arena 

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
Setting a record price for the naming rights to an American indoor sports arena, the British bank Barclays has agreed to pay nearly $400 million over 20 years to put its name on the Nets' planned future home in Brooklyn. The arrangement could double the old record of $185 million for 20 years that Royal Philips Electronics paid to name Philips Arena in Atlanta in 1999. 
 The Nets' arena, a glass-walled, 18,000-seat hall with a park on top, is the centerpiece of the Atlantic Yards, the $4 billion complex of apartment towers and commercial space designed by Frank Gehry.
The arena, together with several of the buildings, will be called Barclays Center, said another person with direct knowledge of the deal. The developer building Atlantic Yards, Forest City Ratner Companies, hopes to open the arena in time for the Nets' 2009-10 season.
 The city's deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, called the sponsorship deal particularly impressive given that Barclays does not even have retail banks in this country.
 ''To have an international investment bank without a major local presence to invest the way they are in the image of Brooklyn and the image of New York just is a remarkable vote of confidence,'' Doctoroff said yesterday. ''The idea of using Brooklyn and New York to build a global brand is one that we think is a very wise investment.'' 
 Barclays is among the largest banks in the world by total assets, with more than $1.5 trillion. 
 The deal, first reported yesterday in The New York Post, will be formally announced at a news conference today in Brooklyn. Neither Barclays nor Forest City would comment on the deal yesterday.
 Forest City's principal, Bruce C. Ratner, bought the Nets for $300 million in 2004. 
 The Atlantic Yards, planned for a 22-acre site near Downtown Brooklyn, includes 6,400 rental apartments and condominiums, office towers and a boutique hotel, in addition to the arena. The project was approved by the state last month.
 Forest City is also The New York Times's development partner on the newspaper's new headquarters in Midtown.
 One of the people with knowledge of the deal said the money would go a long way toward defraying the cost of the arena, which is expected to cost more than $550 million.
 ''That money has to come from somewhere,'' he said.
 Brian Schecter, an analyst who tracks naming rights for Kagan Research, said that while he did not know the details of the deal, it sounded like a good one for Forest City. 
 ''It strikes me as a nice price tag,'' he said. ''What makes this deal even more lucrative is that it's basically a basketball-centric arena.'' 
 Philips Arena in Atlanta is used by both basketball and hockey teams.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on Thursday about the sale of naming rights for the Nets' planned home in Brooklyn referred imprecisely to the arena's anticipated cost. Although the price will indeed exceed $550 million, the latest cost projection has raised it to about $637 million. The article also referred incompletely to a park planned atop the arena. It will be a private open space for the complex; it will not be a public park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); APPROVALS (61%) Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas; Names, Organizational

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); RATNER COS (83%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%) New Jersey Nets; Barclays Bank

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); PHIA (BIT) (58%); PHIA (AMS) (58%); PHG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (83%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Andy Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



370 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Voice of Protest

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
On the evening of the fourth of April, 1967, one year to the day (almost to the hour) before his assassination, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. walked into Riverside Church in Manhattan and delivered a speech that was among his least well known, yet most controversial.
 ''I come to this magnificent house of worship tonight,'' he said, ''because my conscience leaves me no other choice.'' 
The speech was an eloquent, full-throated denunciation of the war in Vietnam, one of the earliest public critiques by such a high-profile American. Silence in the face of the horrors of that war, said Dr. King, amounted to a ''betrayal.''
 The speech unleashed a hurricane of criticism. Even the N.A.A.C.P. complained about Dr. King stepping out of his perceived area of expertise, civil rights, to raise his voice against the evil of the war. The Times headlined an editorial, ''Dr. King's Error.''
 The war would go on for another eight years, ultimately taking the lives of 58,000 Americans and a million to two million Vietnamese. Dr. King himself would be silenced, at the age of 39, by a bullet in Memphis.
 The widespread celebration of Dr. King's birthday on Monday brought that Vietnam speech to mind. It's both gratifying and important that we honor this great man with a national holiday. But it's disturbing that we pay so much more attention to the celebrations than we do to the absolutely crucial lessons that he spent much of his life trying to teach us.
 Whether it's the war in Iraq, or the plight of New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, or the violence and self-destructive behavior that plagues so many black Americans, our attitude toward the wisdom of Dr. King has been that of the drug addict or alcoholic to the notion that there might be a better way. We give lip service to it, and then we ignore it.
 In the Vietnam speech, Dr. King said, ''A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death.'' He may as well have been speaking into the void. The war in Iraq, a reprise of Vietnam, will cost us well over a trillion dollars before we're done, and probably more than two trillion. More than 3,000 American G.I.'s have been killed and the death toll for Iraqis is tallied by the scores of thousands.
 No one knows what to do, although the politicians and the pundits are all over television, day and night, background singers to the carnage.
 Here at home the city of New Orleans is on life support, struggling to survive the combined effects of a catastrophic flood, the unconscionable neglect of the federal government, and the monumental ineptitude of its own local officials. As ordinary residents of New Orleans continue to suffer, the rest of the nation has casually turned away. The debacle is no longer being televised. So it must be over.
 Dr. King held the unfashionable view that we had an obligation to help those who are in trouble, and to speak out against unfair treatment and social injustice. ''Our lives begin to end,'' he said, ''the day we become silent about things that matter.''
 New Orleans matters. And the long dark night of the war in Iraq must surely matter. But not enough voices of protest are being raised in either case. The anger quotient is much too low. You can't stop America's involvement in a senseless war or revive a dying American city if your greatest passion is kicking back with pizza and beer and tuning in to ''American Idol.''
 The quality of life for black Americans more than 38 years after the death of Dr. King is a mixed bag. Blacks are far better off economically and educationally than ever before. Barack Obama is a leading candidate for the Democratic nomination for president, and the last two secretaries of state have been black.
 But the ominous shadow of racial prejudice is still with us. Even President Bush acknowledged that conditions in New Orleans pre-Katrina were proof of that. The nation's prisons are filled to the bursting point with black men who have failed, or been failed, and have no viable future. And too many black Americans are willing and even eager to see themselves in the culturally depraved lineup of gangsters, pimps and whores. 
 Dr. King would be 78 now, and I can't believe that he would be too thrilled by what's going on. In his view: ''He who passively accepts evil is as much involved in it as he who helps to perpetrate it. He who accepts evil without protesting against it is really cooperating with it.''
 We miss his leadership, all of us, whether we're wise enough to realize it or not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); HURRICANES (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); WEATHER (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (61%) Blacks; Vietnam War; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Discrimination; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%) Bob Herbert; Martin Luther Jr (1929-68) King

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (90%) New Orleans (La); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



371 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Is Set To Name Health Chief, Officials Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer will name Dr. Richard F. Daines, the chief executive of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, to be the new state health commissioner, according to several executives in the hospital industry. 
 The appointment, which the executives said could be announced today, would designate the person to carry out a painful, politically charged downsizing plan that will close nine hospitals around the state and merge or shrink dozens of others.
 The commissioner also heads a sprawling department that runs the Medicaid program, which consumes about 40 percent of the state budget.
 The governor's office declined to comment, and calls to officials at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center were not returned.
 But several industry officials, who were granted anonymity because they did not want to risk angering the governor by disclosing the appointment before the official announcement, said that they had talked with the governor's advisers and that Dr. Daines was the choice. 
 Dr. Daines would bring to the job an intimate knowledge of New York's health care economy and the way decisions in Albany reverberate for providers and patients.
 By contrast, previous commissioners have had backgrounds primarily in public health policy or administration in other states. Hospital officials said that the Spitzer team had seriously considered several people with practical experience in the state's health care industry.
 There was some carping among hospital officials at the selection of Dr. Daines, because he is associated with Continuum Health Partners, the parent company of St. Luke's-Roosevelt, which was viewed as having survived well in the statewide hospital downsizing plan -- the same plan the new commissioner will carry out.
 Governor Spitzer has already rearranged the major policymaking positions on his health care team in ways that health care experts say could limit the power of the new commissioner.
 Dennis P. Whalen, who will work in the governor's office as Mr. Spitzer's chief health care adviser, carries more knowledge and authority into that position than any recent predecessor. He is currently the longtime executive deputy commissioner of the Health Department. And Governor Spitzer has already created a new position of deputy health commissioner in charge of health insurance programs, and appointed Debra Bachrach to it.
 Dr. Daines, who has a reputation as an able, low-key administrator, joined St. Luke's-Roosevelt in 2000 as medical director, and became president and chief executive in 2002. Before that, he worked for a dozen years at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx, as medical director and later as senior vice president.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Metro Briefing column on Jan. 5 about appointments by Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York misspelled the given name of the deputy commissioner of the Office of Health Insurance Programs, a new position. (The error was repeated on Thursday in an article about the expected appointment of a new state health commissioner.) She is Deborah Bachrach, not Debra.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); BUDGETS (70%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Health Department (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Richard Perez-Pena; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Richard F (Dr) Daines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



372 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Bring Back Gas Rationing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Make Them Fight All of Us'' (column, Jan. 12), Thomas L. Friedman poses a real challenge to the Bush administration. He suggests an increase in the gas tax as a means of reducing our reliance on foreign oil imports. 
As a World War II veteran, I recall the sacrifices that were asked of the public in the war effort, especially the rationing of gas for automobiles. That system was sensitive to the different requirements of the public, distinguishing between essential and nonessential driving.
 History has shown that it was an extremely successful mechanism, not only in reducing gas consumption but also in the fairness by which it was applied. The economic status of the individual did not enter the picture as it would have by applying an additional tax.
 I have long felt that the public was not given the opportunity to express its nationalism by sharing in the sacrifice of this war in Iraq. Gas rationing would certainly serve that purpose.

Douglas L. Roberts
Scottsdale, Ariz., Jan. 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); FUEL TAX (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); IRAQ WAR (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Rationing and Allocation of Resources

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%) Douglas L Roberts; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



373 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: German Leader Vows to Revive Constitution For Europe

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set two daunting tasks for herself on Wednesday in her new role as European Union president, saying she wanted to save the bloc's faltering constitution and revive stalled global trade talks.
 In a speech to the European Parliament, Mrs. Merkel said that a constitution was vital to the union and that it would be catastrophic if there was no action on the charter by 2009, when elections to the European Parliament will be held.
 ''It is in the interest of Europe, its member states and its citizens to bring this process to a successful conclusion,'' she told Parliament's assembly in Strasbourg, France, referring to the stalemate over the constitution, which was rejected in referendums in the Netherlands and France in 2005. 
 ''A collapse in that process would be a historic failure,'' she said, adding, ''We must give a soul to Europe, we have to find Europe's soul.''
 Turning to trade, she described an urgent need to complete World Trade Organization talks and called on Europe to ''take a resolute stand'' to succeed.
 ''There is too much to lose for us and the developing countries,'' she said, adding that only a short window of opportunity for the talks to succeed remained. But she gave no indication whether she would push for a cut in European farm subsidies, which United States diplomats have said were crucial to any global agreement. 
 Next week, trade officials from 26 countries will meet at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in pursuit of an agreement.
 If officials can agree on the outlines of an acceptable deal, negotiators for the United States will try to persuade Congress to extend the Bush administration's trade-negotiating authority, which is set to expire on June 30. 
 Mrs. Merkel said energy security remained a priority of global trade, and she demanded that Russia become a ''reliable'' energy supplier. 
 European officials have been increasingly concerned that Russia is using its energy supplies as a political weapon, after it temporarily shut down an oil pipeline to Europe in a pricing dispute with Belarus. ''We need reliable relations,'' she said. ''At the same time we can't ignore issues like freedom of the press, civil liberties or conflicts in Russia's neighboring countries.''
 She said Germany would do all it could to revive energy talks between Russia and the Union; they have been blocked by Poland, which is involved in a dispute with Russia.
 Many assumed Mrs. Merkel's call for tolerance also was directed at a newly formed group of far-right nationalists in Parliament.
 Reviving the constitution, which has been ratified so far by 18 members, faces enormous challenges. Many Europeans view the 200-page charter as an arcane document that lacks the unifying elements Mrs. Merkel so ardently advocates.
 The Netherlands has warned that efforts to resuscitate the charter risk spawning a backlash throughout the Union, and top government officials in Britain, Poland, Denmark and the Czech Republic view the constitution with enormous skepticism.
 Mrs. Merkel's campaign received a lift Wednesday when the French presidential candidate for the Socialist party, Segolene Royal, announced that she would put the constitution to another vote if she were elected.
 Mrs. Merkel is determined to save as much as possible of the constitution. She believes that Union expansion, the bloc's most potent foreign policy tool in the post-cold-war world, is all but impossible without the changes outlined in the treaty.
 ''We need a foreign minister for Europe. That's enough of a reason to adopt a constitutional treaty,'' she said, setting off a standing ovation. 
 She also pledged to use her six-month term to revive the Middle East peace process and help settle the status of Kosovo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Constitutions; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%) Dan Bilefsky; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); BELARUS (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%) Europe; European Union; Germany

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



374 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: House Backs a Cut in Interest on College Loans

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
House Democrats on Wednesday pushed through legislation cutting the interest rate on federally subsidized loans to college students, drawing on large bipartisan support despite opposition by the White House.
 The bill's easy passage -- by 356 to 71, with 124 Republicans joining Democrats to support it -- underscored the broad appeal of college affordability as an issue. And it was another step in the Democrats' drive to pass key bills in their early days in control of the House.
Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, who sponsored the bill, said it illustrated his party's commitment to strengthening the middle class. ''With this vote, the House took the first step towards guaranteeing that every student who is qualified to go to college will be able to afford to go,'' he said. 
 Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, Republican of Maryland, said he could not fathom why his party's leaders opposed the bill.
 ''I just think that we need more of our kids going to school,'' Mr. Bartlett said, after casting his vote. ''This is one of the better places to invest money, and as long as we're taking people's money, we should put it back where it's needed.''
 The measure, which will halve the interest rate over the next five years, is estimated to cost $6 billion, which would be financed by increasing fees that lenders pay to the government and by reducing the 30 or so largest lenders' government-guaranteed profits on student loans.
 In a statement opposing the bill issued on Wednesday morning, well before the vote, the White House said the measure did nothing to improve access to college, because it only helped ease the burden of repayment for graduates. Instead, the White House called for increased grant aid to lower-income students. 
 The White House statement also said access to higher education should be improved by containing costs. The responsibility for helping families, the statement said, ''must be shared with colleges, which also have a central role in making higher education affordable.''
 The White House did not threaten a veto, but the size of Wednesday's majority indicated that Democrats would have the strength to override one.
 The afternoon's debate gave little hint of the broad bipartisan support the measure would garner. Republicans derided the bill as a gimmick -- ''bait and switch,'' in the words of Representative Tom Price of Georgia, who said it would take full effect only five years from now, and then for only six months, barring further Congressional action. 
 But ultimately the issue's appeal for many Republicans was too strong. Representative Michael N. Castle, Republican of Delaware, voted for the bill, describing it as ''a step towards assisting college students pay for the soaring costs of higher education.'' Mr. Castle added, however, that the bill ''barely skims the surface of the true problem of how we can help increase access and affordability for all students.''
 The bill comes as tuition increases at public and private institutions routinely outpace inflation, putting college out of reach for many students, and increasing the debt they carry upon graduation. The average student graduates college carrying more than $18,000 in debt. 
 ''No one wants to be on the receiving end of a campaign ad attacking an incumbent for siding with bank lenders over middle-class voters,'' said Sarah Binder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
 According to the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, the bill would save the average student who starts college next year about $2,300 in interest payments over the life of a 15-year loan.
 Representative Tom Latham, Republican of Iowa, also voted for the interest cuts. ''The savings students will receive is commendable,'' he said, ''and deserves our support.''
 A similar bill in the Senate, sponsored by Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee, would also reduce the interest rates on student loans, along with making a raft of other changes. His bill would also increase the maximum Pell grant to $5,100.
 Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the education committee's ranking Republican, contended that the House measure would only make repayment terms easier for graduates, whose expected lifetime earnings top $1 million. 
 The bill cuts the interest rate on subsidized Stafford loans to 3.4 percent from the current rate of 6.8 percent in stages over five years, beginning with loans taken after July 1. To make the bill affordable, the full benefit of the loan's promise of 3.4 percent interest rates applies only to loans made after July 1, 2012, and expires by the end of that year. The subsidized Stafford loans are also open to middle income families.
 The student loan industry lobbied against the bill, but appeared resigned to its passage in the House. The Consumer Bankers Association said some lawmakers saw the student lending program as ''a bottomless pit of budget savings that can be drawn on repeatedly to fund changes to student aid programs.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative George Miller, chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, sponsored a bill on subsidized loans to college students. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Law and Legislation; Tuition

PERSON: ROSCOE G BARTLETT (73%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (70%); TOM PRICE (58%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%) Diana Jean Schemo

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



375 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Iraqi Government Arrests Members of Sadr Militia
Iraqi officials said they had arrested several dozen senior members of the Mahdi Army, the powerful Shiite militia led by the cleric Moktada al-Sadr, marking the first time the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki had claimed significant action against it. A1

Two Senate Democrats and a Republican introduced a symbolic measure to declare the Bush administration's plan to send more troops to Iraq counter to the national interest, setting the stage for a direct clash with Mr. 
Bush over the war. A10

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton called Mr. Bush's plan to send more troops to Iraq ''a losing strategy'' and proposed placing new limits on his conduct of the war. A10

Troops Wanted in Afghanistan
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that American and NATO military commanders in Afghanistan, worried about a resurgent Taliban insurgency, had asked for more troops and that he was sympathetic to the request. A12

U.S. Talks With North Korea
The United States held two days of talks with North Korean diplomats in Berlin in unusual one-on-one sessions, restarting negotiations to end North Korea's nuclear weapons program. A3

New Push for European Charter
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said she wanted to revive global trade talks and save the European Union constitution in her new role as the union president. A3

NATIONAL A14-24

White House to Allow Eavesdropping Oversight
The Bush administration, in a surprise reversal, said it had agreed to give a secret court jurisdiction over the National Security Agency's wiretapping program and would end its practice of eavesdropping without warrants on Americans suspected of ties to terrorists. A1

Climate Bills Move to Spotlight
Congressional Democrats are increasingly determined to wrest control of global warming legislation from the White House and impose the kind of mandatory controls on carbon-dioxide emissions that most smokestack industries have long opposed. A24

Costs Imperil Disaster Fund
The federal government's biggest program to help people rebuild after natural disasters is on the verge of running out of operating money because of budgeting problems at the agency that runs it. A1

EDUCATION

House Votes to Cut Loan Costs
House Democrats pushed through legislation cutting the interest rate on federally subsidized loans to college students, drawing on large bipartisan support. A24

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Decrease in Cancer Deaths
The number of cancer deaths in the United States has dropped for the second year in a row, the American Cancer Society reported. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Bloomberg Unveils Overhaul of Schools
Mayor Bloomberg laid out a new plan to overhaul the school system by giving principals more power and autonomy, requiring teachers to undergo rigorous review to gain tenure, and revising an inequitable school financing formula that has allowed more experienced teachers to cluster in affluent areas. A1

Utility Criticized in Blackout
New York State regulators have concluded that Consolidated Edison's failure to adequately maintain, operate and oversee its electrical network was ''the overriding cause'' of a nine-day blackout in Queens that plunged 174,000 people into sweltering darkness last summer. A1

Neediest Cases B5

BUSINESS DAY C1-28

Apple Sets Revenue Record
Apple Inc., brushing by even optimistic analyst expectations, delivered $1 billion in profit for its first quarter, largely on the Christmas performance of its iPod music player business. C1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-8

Investigating a Player's Suicide
Since Andre Waters, a former National Football League player, killed himself last fall, an explanation for his suicide has remained a mystery. Now, a neuropathologist is claiming that Waters had suffered brain damage from playing football that led to his depression and death. A1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: A spy program in from the cold; politics and the corruption fighter; the mayor and his tax cuts; Verlyn Klinkenborg on traveling west in the company of a young historian.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E10
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ESPIONAGE (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); EMISSIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); WIRETAPPING (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); JURISDICTION (63%); CANCER (63%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



376 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Measures on Global Warming Move to Spotlight in the New Congress

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Felicity Barringer reported from Washington and Andrew C. Revkin from Portland, Ore. Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
The climate here has definitely changed. 
 Legislation to control global warming that once had a passionate but quixotic ring to it is now serious business. Congressional Democrats are increasingly determined to wrest control of the issue from the White House and impose the mandatory controls on carbon dioxide emissions that most smokestack industries have long opposed.
Four major Democratic bills have been announced, with more expected. One of these measures, or a blend of them, stands an excellent chance of passage in this Congress or the next, industry and environmental lobbyists said in interviews.
 Many events have combined to create the new direction -- forsythia blooming in lawmakers' gardens in January, polar bears lacking the ice they need to hunt and Al Gore's movie, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' along with pragmatic executives seeking an idea of future costs and, especially, the arrival of a Democratic-controlled Congress. There was evidence of the changed mood all over Washington this week. 
 On Wednesday, leading scientists and evangelical pastors jointly declared their intention to fight the causes of climate change and the public confusion on the subject. Cheryl Johns, a professor at the Church of God Theological Seminary, called that problem ''nature deficit disorder.'' 
 Another news conference on Wednesday featured executives of the heavily regulated electric utility industry embracing Senators Dianne Feinstein of California and Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, both Democrats. The senators were offering separate bills to add regulations, including a cap on carbon dioxide emissions. 
 One sign of the Democrats' determination to move on climate bills occurred when a Democratic Congressional aide confirmed that Speaker Nancy Pelosi wanted to create a special committee on climate, apparently an end run around Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. 
 Mr. Dingell, through an aide, Jodi Seth, said Wednesday that such committees were ''as relevant and useful as feathers on a fish.'' 
 Mr. Dingell's firm support of the automobile industry, a leading source of carbon dioxide emissions, and his earlier lack of enthusiasm for climate measures have made him suspect among advocates of strong climate laws. 
 To add excitement, the man of the moment, Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, lent his name to the best-known brand in climate-change legislation, a measure by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.
 That means that two of the three sponsors, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, are leading presidential contenders in 2008.
 Neither party is united around any one position. And for all the flurry of news conferences and proffered solutions, the big unanswered question was what will President Bush do? 
 A tantalizing hint came from James L. Connaughton, chairman of the president's Council on Environmental Quality, in an interview on Tuesday.
 ''There are a number of pathways for getting to a shared goal, and we should explore all of them,'' Mr. Connaughton said.
 He added, ''Part of that, by the way, is learning about some of the flaws in the design of the economywide cap-and-trade approach, which, if corrected, might make it a workable tool.'' 
 That suggests that some version of an emissions cap may eventually win White House support. Persistent rumors that the president might support an emissions cap, circulating in Washington and Europe, were rejected Tuesday by his press secretary, Tony Snow.
 But White House aides have hinted for months that Mr. Bush was planning a dramatic announcement on the subject in his annual address. Last year, the president said, ''America is addicted to oil,'' and stimulated a debate over dependence on foreign oil that has overlapped with environmental groups' calls for cleaner-burning domestic fuels. 
 The mechanism that Mr. Snow ruled out is the basis for most of the Democratic measures, capping carbon dioxide emissions and then giving or selling to companies allowances, effectively permits to create a certain level of emissions. 
 Cleaner factories or utilities could then sell the allowances and gain a new revenue source. Factories with higher than allowable emissions would have to buy the permits they need.
 Such a market, already in effect in Europe, in theory would set a price for a ton of carbon dioxide emissions, and the market would stimulate innovation in technologies that would reduce emissions or produce goods or power without the same high emissions common today.
 Diplomats and environmental groups speculated in Washington this week that the Bush administration would look at other mandatory actions, perhaps not an emissions cap but rather expanding the decision to increase marginally fuel-economy standards for light trucks. 
 A similar move for passenger vehicles, coupled with a call for sharp increases in ethanol and other renewable fuels plus new money for research into clean-energy technologies would be a bouquet approach that would expand policies Mr. Bush has put forward. 
 European allies have been trying to nudge Mr. Bush toward their cap-and-trade model. The White House says that would shift jobs, and emissions from one country to another without slowing worldwide growth in emissions. 
 The president' s opposition to mandatory caps retains strong support on Capitol Hill. 
 Jim Owen, a spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, the trade group of the utility industry, said Wednesday: ''Everything is different, but it's also the same in some ways. You still need 60 votes to get something big done in the Senate. And there are still many complex, thorny issues that stand in the way of enactment.''
 The Democratic bills announced in the last two weeks cover a broad range. A proposal by Senator Jeff Bingaman, the New Mexico Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, would decrease the rate of emissions growth before capping emissions and would build in a ''safety valve,'' freeing industries from the caps in certain circumstances. 
 Groups like Environmental Defense say the safety valve would undermine market mechanisms. 
 In an interview, Mr. Bingaman said, ''The way I look at it it's a question of what we can get agreement on.''
 Less draconian than that proposal is the Lieberman-McCain approach. It would tighten controls more gradually and include subsidies for nuclear power. An emissions cap for just utilities is the centerpiece of yet another bill, by Ms. Feinstein. 
 Some scientists and economists have expressed concern in recent weeks that the discussions here is overly focused on emissions caps, with too little attention on what they say is an essential need, greatly expanded government-financed research on nonpolluting energy technologies. 
 Richard G. Richels, a climate expert and an economist at the Electric Power Research Institute, an organization in Palo Alto, Calif., that conducts energy studies for the utility industry, said a carbon dioxide cap would mainly prompt industry to deploy existing cleaner technologies that provide gains, but fail to come close to solving the climate problem. 
 Mr. Richels added that it would not spur long-term investments seeking breakthroughs like new ways to store intermittent power from windmills.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about efforts in Congress to pass legislation to curb carbon dioxide emissions misstated a comparison of the two measures. A bill introduced by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, which would tighten controls gradually and include subsidies for nuclear power, is more draconian, not less, than a proposal by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico. Mr. Bingaman's bill would put a less stringent cap on emissions and includes a clause that would free industry from the requirements under certain circumstances.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Thomas R. Carper of Delaware and Dianne Feinstein of California, both Democrats, offered bills to add regulations for utilities. Their proposals would include caps on emissions of carbon dioxide. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)Chart: ''Comparing the Proposed Climate Bills''Three Senate bills addressing global climate change have been announced this year, with more on the way. Here is an analysis by the World Resources Institute of the bills' projected impact.CHARTS SHOW UNITED STATES EMISSIONS OF ALL GREENHOUSE GASES expressed as billions of tons of carbon dioxideIf nothing is done'Business as usual'The ''baseline'' case, which projects emissions without any changes to current policy.One outlook for the U.S.Stabilization at 450 parts per million Emission level, as part of a global plan, to stabilize temperature 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.*What has been proposedSome bills include ''safety valve'' provisions that could ease limits if their impact on the economy were deemed too severe.Sanders-BoxerThis proposal comes closest to achieving stabilization of greenhouse gases at 450 parts per million.Lieberman-McCainThis proposal steps emission limits down over time but is less restrictive than Sanders-Boxer.Bingaman (discussion draft)Limits in this proposal are flexible and are based on projections of emissions and gross domestic product.Graphs track Actual emissions and Projected emissions since 1990 and projected through 2050.*Stabilization trajectories for global greenhouse gas concentrations assume full adoption of binding emission reduction limits by all industrialized countries by 2012, with developing countries gradually taking on increasingly stringent commitments over the next several decades with limits based on their contributions to global greenhouse gas emissions and wealth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%) Weather; Global Warming; Law and Legislation; Carbon Dioxide

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); AL GORE (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TOM CARPER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); JAMES CONNAUGHTON (50%) Felicity Barringer; Andrew C Revkin; Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



377 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Japan, in a Split Vote, Decides to Hold Rates Steady 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank, kept borrowing rates unchanged on Thursday in an intensely scrutinized decision, apparently concluding that the economy was too weak to bear a rate increase.
 The bank said in a statement that the policy board was split, with six of the nine members voting to keep overnight borrowing rates at 0.25 percent. The other three members voted against.
The decision followed recent data that showed a drop in consumer spending and slower growth in Japan's $5 trillion economy, the second-largest after the United States. The move, which capped a two-day meeting by the bank's governing board, added to growing concerns that Japan's longest expansion since World War II may be losing steam. 
 After Thursday's announcement, many traders were betting that the bank may increase interest rates at its February meeting.
 ''The split vote means the B.O.J. will probably raise rates next month,'' Tetsuhisa Hayashi, chief currency trader at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., told Bloomberg News.
 In keeping rates steady, the bank took a similar tack as the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, which has maintained rates at 5.25 percent since June amid signs of a slowdown in America. 
 The Japanese central bank also appeared on Thursday to back away from earlier statements that seemed to favor a rate increase, economists said.
 ''The bank wisely concluded that it is too early to raise rates,'' said Naoki Iizuka, senior economist at Mizuho Securities in Tokyo. ''The risk of inflation is very, very low, while the real risk is of a turn down in the business cycle.''
 While Mr. Iizuka and other economists applauded the decision, they also expressed concerns about the move for a different reason: that the bank appeared to have reversed course in the face of political pressure.
 The bank's decision has been closely watched as a litmus test of its ability to defend its recently won independence from the government, which ran monetary policy until 1998. Thursday's announcement followed a series of news leaks and warnings by politicians against a rate increase, which riled markets and raised doubts about the bank's ability to effectively shepherd the economy.
 ''It certainly gives the appearance that they are caving into political pressure,'' said Richard Jerram, an economist in the Tokyo office of Macquerie Securities. ''It will be hard for the B.O.J. to avoid damage to its credibility.'' 
 Until a few days ago, Mr. Jerram and other economists appeared convinced that the bank would lift rates to 0.5 percent, following statements by the bank's governor, Toshiyuki Fukui, against keeping rates low. 
 Mr. Fukui has long said that he wants to end Japan's near-zero interest rates, begun in the late 1990s as an emergency measure to revive the nation's then-moribund economy.
 But in recent days, senior lawmakers like Hidenao Nakagawa, who is close to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, have openly called for the bank to delay an increase to avoid squelching economic growth. The appearance of political interference jolted the stock market and sent the yen to a 13-month low against the dollar.
 Facing upper house elections this summer that are seen as a referendum on Mr. Abe's new administration, lawmakers in his ruling Liberal Democratic Party are keen for the economy to continue its five-year growth streak. 
 Recent signs of a possible slowdown include a 0.7 percent drop in household spending in November, and a slowdown in the overall economy's growth to an annualized rate of 0.8 percent in the quarter ended in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); WORLD WAR II (54%) Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Japan

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



378 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: A Fed Adviser Plans to Leave

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Vincent Reinhart, one of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's top advisers on interest rates, is planning to leave the central bank. 
 Mr. Reinhart, 49, plans to join the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington research group, the organization said in a statement. He will write about monetary policy and macroeconomics.
The departure leaves a vacancy at the head of the division that makes the Fed's policy options at a time when Mr. Bernanke is trying to slow inflation without damaging growth. Mr. Reinhart helps write the statements after meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, which has kept the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent since August. 
 The central bank has had several changes in top positions. The president of the Chicago Fed, Michael H. Moskow, plans to retire in August, and the Atlanta Fed is searching for a new president. The Board of Governors has a vacancy.
 No successor has been publicly named to succeed Mr. Reinhart as director of the division of monetary affairs. He had been the Fed's senior strategist since July 2, 2001.
 The monetary affairs team puts together a document called the blue book for the rate-setting committee every six weeks that lays out interest-rate choices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (73%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Ben S Bernanke; Vincent Reinhart

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



379 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: S.M.U. Chief Says Bush Library Would Be a Boon for the Campus

BYLINE: By GRETEL C. KOVACH

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
The president of Southern Methodist University told professors on Wednesday evening that the university would benefit if it became the site of President Bush's presidential library.
 The university president, R. Gerald Turner, spoke at the spring faculty meeting and addressed questions posed by professors after Southern Methodist learned on Dec. 21 that it had emerged as the sole finalist for the library. 
Many professors, including some who want the library on campus, are concerned about the relationship between a proposed Bush policy institute and the library and the effect the institute might have on the university's academic independence.
 But Dr. Turner said the library and the institute would raise the national profile of the private university, spur economic development in the community, and most importantly, enhance academic resources and professional interaction.
 ''This presidential library will obviously contain a treasure trove of documents and artifacts that describe one of the most intense and controversial periods in our history,'' he said. ''Any real or perceived fears about the institute or the library in any way inhibiting this institution's history of academic freedom are unfounded.''
 What's more, Southern Methodist stands to lose prestige and donor support if it were to fail in its bid for the library at this stage, he added. ''It would raise questions of donor confidence in our ability to compete for this tremendous asset,'' he said.
 Both the interim provost and the president of the faculty senate cautioned ''outsiders'' not to mistake vigorous academic debate for widespread opposition. But several faculty members said Wednesday that they believed there was deep opposition to the plan on the faculty, particularly to the Bush institute.
 A history professor, Kathleen Wellman, said she did not want the institute on campus. ''I think it will generate what I consider to be political propaganda and overshadow much of the other work done at S.M.U.,'' she said.
 An art history professor, Janis Bergman-Carton, said, ''I am afraid we are mortgaging our reputation and our students, actually and symbolically, to an administration that 70 percent of this country thinks is incompetent and unethical.''
 Benjamin Johnson, an assistant professor and scholar of modern American and Texas history, asked, ''How can it be a good thing to turn over the public faith of this university to the cronies of one of the most divisive, partisan and unpopular administrations in American history?''
 Students returned to class on Tuesday, and interest in the issue has so far been muted. But students tend to be more conservative and supportive of the idea than the faculty, said the student body president, Taylor Russ. 
 ''If the institute brings politics to the campus, I think all students, whether or not they agree with President Bush, see that it brings another opportunity to learn and interact with each other,'' he said.
 Mark Norris, editor in chief of the independent student newspaper, The Daily Campus, said: ''I think most students just assume it's coming here. From what I can tell most people seem pretty supportive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); HISTORY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); ETHICS (75%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); CONSERVATISM (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (54%) United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (94%) Southern Methodist University; Bush, George W, Presidential Library

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; R Gerald Turner; Gretel C Kovach

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



380 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS JAN. 19 - JAN. 25; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 16996 words

 BODY:

Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'ADRIFT IN MACAO' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Feb 13. Primary Stages presents Christopher Durang and Peter Melnick's new musical send-up of the sexy, shadowy world of film noir (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'THE FEVER' In previews; opens on Jan. 29. Wallace Shawn stars in his own play about a man who wakes up in a war-torn country feeling under the weather (1:30). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'FRANK'S HOME' In previews; opens on Jan. 30. Richard Nelson's new bio-play about the life and work of Frank Lloyd Wright stars Peter Weller (as Wright) and Harris Yulin (who plays Louis Sullivan) (1:45). Playwrights Horizons Mainstage, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 719-4200.

'THE GAZILLION BUBBLE SHOW' Performances through Tuesday; returning on Feb. 15. Fan Yan holds the world's record for the largest bubble ever blown, and in an even more amazing feat, he's parlayed this oddball stunt into a bubble-themed, family-friendly show (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'IN THE HEIGHTS' In previews; opens on Feb. 8. A new Off Broadway musical about two days in the life of Washington Heights, presented from the vantage point of a corner bodega (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'KIKI AND HERB' On the heels of a Broadway stint, these cabaret hipsters return to their downtown roots (1:30). Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.

'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' In previews; opens on Feb. 4. F. Murray Abraham plays Shylock in this Theater for a New Audience production. Darko Tresnjak directs (2:20). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200.

'A SPANISH PLAY' In previews; opens on Feb. 1. Zoe Caldwell leads an extraordinary cast (Linda Emond, Denis O'Hare, Larry Pine, Katherine Borowitz) in Yasmina Reza's new backstage play, in which real life and fiction blur (1:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'TRANSLATIONS' In previews; opens on Thursday. Brian Friel's drama about a British officer in 19th-century rural Ireland deals with themes of language, imperialism and culture clash. Garry Hynes directs (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)

'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' The exhilarating first two installments of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, these productions pulse with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast that includes Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance. With his irresistibly mannered performance as a laconic doctor, Mr. Nighy mops the floor with Ms. Moore. Actually, he mops the floor with Mr. Hare's play (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'AS YET THOU ART YOUNG AND RASH' An abstract collage of shards of feeling built out of Euripides' ''Suppliant Women,'' this meditation on grief and the death of children in senseless war offers plenty of parallels to current society without doing anything so obvious as explicitly referring to them. The five-member cast, led by three beautiful middle-aged women, is strong; the director, David Herskovits, has helped them shape an evocative piece that might be too nonliteral for some tastes, but is both moving and distinctive (1:10). The Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. (Anne Midgette)

'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)

*'THE CLEAN HOUSE' Sarah Ruhl's comedy about the painful but beautiful disorder of life has arrived in New York at last in a gorgeous production directed by Bill Rauch. Blair Brown and Jill Clayburgh delight as sisters with different views on the meaning of cleaning, and Vanessa Aspillaga is equally good as the depressed maid with little affection for her work but a deep conviction that a good joke can be a matter of life and death (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'DAI (ENOUGH)' Iris Bahr's unnerving one-woman show doesn't have much to add to the Middle East debate, but it sure leaves a lasting impression. Ms. Bahr plays an assortment of characters who have the misfortune of being in a Tel Aviv cafe that is about to be visited by the havoc common to such establishments. The attack is rendered in jarring fashion, repeatedly; you watch the play on pins and needles, waiting for the next burst. Gimmicky? Sure. But viscerally effective (1:40). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 253-9983. (Neil Genzlinger)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'GET YOUR WAR ON' Based on the absurdist comic strip of David Rees, this sardonic history lesson of the past six years will delight Bush-haters (1:10). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'GUTENBERG! THE MUSICAL' A very funny if not terribly original satire of musical theater features what must be the worst backers' audition of all time. The excellent duo Jeremy Shamos and Christopher Fitzgerald make the pitch (2:05). The Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates)

'MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS' This musical is too big for its stage, but the young turn-of-the-last-century sweethearts have great chemistry, and there are four terrific songs (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Gates)

'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'REGRETS ONLY' Old acquaintance comes under siege in Paul Rudnick's chiffon-thin comedy about the varieties of love and marriage. But no one who sees this latest offering from one of the funniest quipmeisters alive is going to doubt that Christine Baranski is a one-liner's best friend (2:00). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'RIDDLELIKELOVE (WITH A SIDE OF KETCHUP)' This one-woman show, in which Julie Fitzpatrick tells of her friendship with a deaf woman, is cloying and thin, but the sign-language interpretation provided at each performance gives it an interesting extra dimension, helping to bring the subject to life (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)

'THE SCENE' Theresa Rebeck's latest is a sharp-witted, sharp-elbowed comedy about the savage economies of sex and show business in Manhattan. Tony Shalhoub plays an out-of-work actor, Charlie, happily married -- but not really -- to Patricia Heaton's frazzled chat show booker. Enter femme fatale Clea, played by the gifted Anna Camp, and goodbye, Charlie (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Isherwood)

* 'TOYS IN THE ATTIC' Austin Pendleton's fine revival of Lillian Hellman's last play faithfully attacks the corrosive attachments of family. What good is a family, and thus a society, the play implicitly asks, that can only look in the mirror? (2:30) Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Ginia Bellafante)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban)

* 'THE VIETNAMIZATION OF NEW JERSEY (AN AMERICAN TRAGEDY)' A revival of Christopher Durang's satire of war, family life and Bicentennial fever, on the 30th anniversary of its debut at the Yale Repertory Theater, swishes along at the speed of a Nascar race. Blanche Baker is a gem as an out-of-it 1970s matron who just can't dust off the Eisenhower era. the Beckett Theater, on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Bellafante)

* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'FLUKE' A meditative collage of enigmatic riffs on ''Moby-Dick'' presented by the rambunctious experimental company Radiohole (1:30). Collapsable Hole, 146 Metropolitan Avenue, at Berry Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 388-2251. (Zinoman)

Long-Running Shows

'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'PURITY' The provocateur Thomas Bradshaw's horror show confronts black-on-black racism (1:15). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closes on Tuesday. (Zinoman)

'SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER' As the luscious (and lobotomy-threatened) damsel in distress in Tennessee Williams's famously lurid melodrama, Carla Gugino gives a gutsy assurance to a production that otherwise lacks compelling confidence. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes Blythe Danner, in a fascinating but misconceived performance as a smothering mother from hell (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300; closes on Sunday. (Brantley)

'PARTY TIME' This multimedia work by the Talking Band looks great, but it's really just a reworking of the old two-guys-in-a-foxhole plot. Here the foxhole is a tank in a desert war; its two occupants (Will Badgett and Joe Roseto) sing about their lives and fears as they try to find a rendezvous point. It's visceral without being illuminating (1:00). LaMaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger)

'THE RAPTURE PROJECT' Marionettes of various faiths clash in this confusing modern take on an old brand of Sicilian puppet theater by Great Small Works. A Susan Sontag puppet makes an appearance, as does one that calls to mind a former New York City police commissioner, but more often than not, the musical accompaniment is the liveliest thing about the show (1:30). The Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger)

'YOU BELONG TO ME: DEATH OF NATIONS, PART V' The fifth, choppily considered installment of the writer and director Josh Fox's millennial play cycle examines the final days of three wars. Should we think about war primarily in terms of the havoc it wreaks on love and sex? He seems to think so (3:00). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closes on Tuesday. (Bellafante)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'ABDUCTION: THE MEGUMI YOKOTA STORY' (No rating, 85 minutes, in Japanese) This documentary about the titular 13-year-old girl -- who vanished on the way home from school in Niigata, Japan, in 1977, and was revealed as a pawn in a North Korean spy-training program -- succeeds as a true crime story, a thumbnail history of a painful recent chapter of Asian history and as a portrait of lives transformed by trauma. Meandering in places, but compassionate and engrossing throughout. (Matt Zoller Seitz)

'ALPHA DOG' (R, 117 minutes) Based on a true Southern California crime, Nick Cassavetes's entertaining exploitation flick features a lot of attractive, talented young actors shimmying across the screen while embodying the collective parental nightmare. Do you know where your children are? Well, in this film they're getting busy, chilling out, smoking blunts and chugging coolers faster than a toothless wino. Oh, and committing murder. (Manohla Dargis)

'ARTHUR AND THE INVISIBLES' (PG, 94 minutes) Luc Besson serves up a hybrid of live actors and computer-generated figures to tell a not-endearing-enough story about a boy (Freddie Highmore) who shrinks to microscopic size to find some gems and his missing grandfather. Lots of famous names (Madonna, Robert De Niro, David Bowie, Snoop Dogg) lend their voices to the computerized part of the movie, but only briefly near the end does everything click. (Neil Genzlinger)

'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked, not quite simultaneous stories set on three different continents, with dialogue in several languages. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (A. O. Scott)

'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn human misery into entertainment. (Dargis)

* 'BORAT: CULTURAL LEARNINGS OF AMERICA FOR MAKE BENEFIT GLORIOUS NATION OF KAZAKHSTAN' (R, 89 minutes) In this brainy, merciless comedy, a Kazakh journalist named Borat Sagdiyev, a k a the British comic Sacha Baron Cohen, invades America. America laughs, cries, surrenders. (Dargis)

'CHARLOTTE'S WEB' (G, 113 minutes) Gary Winick's adaptation of E. B. White's great children's novel is faithful to the wit and feeling of the source. The celebrity-voiced animals are charming, and Julia Roberts is in fine form as the heroic spider, whose writing ability saves the life of a pig. (Scott)

* 'CHILDREN OF MEN' (R, 100 minutes) The end is nigh in this superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. Based on the P. D. James book, the film stars an excellent Clive Owen and features equally sterling support from the actors Michael Caine, Danny Huston and Chiwetel Ejiofior, among others, as well as the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki. (Dargis)

'CODE NAME: THE CLEANER' (PG-13, 91 minutes) Cedric the Entertainer clogs the arteries of what could have been a savvy riff on the ''Bourne'' films with way too much ham, playing a janitor who wakes up with amnesia, a dead man beside him. A missing computer chip fuels the plot, aided by Lucy Liu and Nicollette Sheridan. Though it's all too dumb to amuse grownups, it's harmless fun for tweener types. (Genzlinger)

'COMEDY OF POWER' (No rating, 110 minutes, in French) Isabelle Huppert is brisk and fierce as a French investigative judge going after corrupt fat cats. The director, Claude Chabrol, is more interested in the forms of ruling-class behavior than in the details of high-level criminality, but his detached, complacent style makes for an interesting contrast with Ms. Huppert's conviction. (Scott)

'CURSE OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER' (R, 114 minutes, in Mandarin) The Chinese director Zhang Yimou aims for Shakespeare and winds up with Jacqueline Susann in this Tang dynasty melodrama roiling with incest, fraternal rivalry and madness-inducing fungus. As an emperor and empress fighting for control of their three sons, Chow Yun Fat and Gong Li lend the film a core of marital toxicity that's deliciously unstable. Directing with operatic delirium, Mr. Zhang has created a movie in which the line between tragedy and black comedy has been all but erased. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis)

'DREAMGIRLS' (PG-13, 131 minutes) The Broadway musical arrives on the screen, capably directed by Bill Condon, ardently acted and sung by Jamie Foxx, Eddie Murphy, Beyonce Knowles and (especially) Jennifer Hudson, but undone by mediocre and anachronistic songs. (Scott)

'FREEDOM WRITERS' (PG-13, 123 minutes) Hilary Swank uses her characteristic neediness to fine effect in a true-to-life story about a teacher making a difference in a Southern California high school. The writer and director Richard LaGravenese provides the smartly laid foundation, but it's the kids who give the film its strong emotional tug. (Dargis)

* 'GOD GREW TIRED OF US' (PG, 90 minutes) This sober, uplifting documentary, which won two major awards at last year's Sundance Film Festival, follows the resettlement in the United States of three Sudanese young men uprooted as children by the civil war. Handsomely photographed, and inspirational but not cloyingly so, it is the rare contemporary documentary that doesn't leave a residue of cynicism and outrage. (Stephen Holden)

'THE GOOD GERMAN' (R, 102 minutes) In his adaptation of the Joseph Kanon novel, Steven Soderbergh tries to resurrect the magic of classical Hollywood, principally by sucking out all the air, energy and pleasure from his own filmmaking. It's no wonder George Clooney, who stars alongside a vamping Cate Blanchett, looks confused. (Dargis)

'GURU' (No rating, 166 minutes, in Hindi) The Tamil director Mani Ratnam makes the case for India's growing economic clout with this entertaining epic about the rise and rise of Gurukant Desai, a fictitious Mumbai polyester manufacturer. The actress Aishwarya Rai, as Guru's wife, is a welcome presence, but the picture belongs to Abhishek Bachchan, who gives a rich, varied performance in the title role. (Andy Webster)

'HAPPILY N'EVER AFTER' (PG, 87 minutes) Like Dreamworks's ''Shrek'' comedies, ''Happily'' is a grab-bag parody set in a fantasyland derived from bedtime stories and Disney films. The adopted chambermaid Ella (voiced by Sarah Michelle Gellar, drawn like Winona Ryder) and the poor dishwasher Rick (Freddie Prinze Jr.) battle Ella's wicked stepmother, Frieda (Sigourney Weaver). Despite self-aware touches, this is another tired kidsploitation product in which a wasp-waisted ingenue and a shallow beau drive the plot and live happily ever after. (Seitz)

'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)

* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)

* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott)

'MISS POTTER' (PG, 92 minutes) In ''Miss Potter,'' Renee Zellweger, her face pickled in cheeriness, is Beatrix Potter, the creator of Peter Rabbit, Squirrel Nutkin and Mrs. Tittlemouse, among other beloved characters in children's literature. As portrayed by Ms. Zellweger, Potter is almost as chipper as Julie Andrews's Mary Poppins, a proto-feminist, proto-environmentalist and perfect lady to boot. There was plenty of drama in Potter's life, but the movie turns major conflicts and losses into minor setbacks in a charmed, entirely virtuous life. The movie is far too nice for its own good. (Holden)

'NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM' (PG, 108 minutes) In this chaotic, overstuffed family comedy, Ben Stiller is a night watchman at the American Museum of Natural History, where the exhibits come to life at night and attack him and one another. This computerized spectacle spares no expense, but the storytelling is weak, and the hit-or-miss jokes miss more than hit. (Holden)

'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis)

* 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott)

'THE PAINTED VEIL' (PG-13, 125 minutes) Nicely directed by John Curran, this version of the W. Somerset Maugham novel draws you in by turning a distaff bildungsroman into a fine romance with Naomi Watts and Edward Norton. (Dargis)

'PRIMEVAL' (R, 94 minutes) A giant crocodile named Gustave terrorizes Western journalists in war-torn Burundi. Not as much fun as it might have been, but not as terrible either. (Scott)

'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis)

* 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis)

'ROCKY BALBOA' (PG, 102 minutes) Surprisingly, the sixth installment of this franchise is no embarrassment. Like its forerunners, it goes the distance almost in spite of itself. It's all heart and no credibility, except as a raw-boned fable. From the very beginning, Rocky Balboa was about as lifelike a character as Popeye pumped up with spinach. But that may be the point of a series that peddles the notion that if you dream it hard enough, you can live it. (Holden)

'STOMP THE YARD' (PG-13, 109 minutes) Brotherhood is powerful in this sometimes compelling, sometimes complacent movie about stepping and African-American fraternity life at an Atlanta institution called Truth University. DJ (Columbus Short), a street-style dancer, needs to find his place in a university ruled by Gammas and Thetas and stepping. (Rachel Saltz)

'TEARS OF THE BLACK TIGER' (No rating, 113 minutes, in Thai) A western weepie from Thailand, filmed in garish color. In spite of the relentless genre pastiche, it has a charming sincerity. (Scott)

'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott)

* 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott)

'WE ARE MARSHALL' (PG, 128 minutes) This fact-based story of a West Virginia college town recovering from the death of its entire football team in a 1970 plane crash is a stiff, manipulative dud that gets wrong everything ''Friday Night Lights'' got right. Matthew McConaughey hams it up as the college's goofy new coach, who whips the replacement team into decent shape. (Holden)

Film Series

ROBERT ALTMAN REMEMBERED (Tonight through Tuesday) A tribute to the late American filmmaker winds up with several seldom seen Altman films: ''Three Women,'' ''Buffalo Bill and the Indians,'' ''McCabe and Mrs. Miller,'' ''Tanner '88,'' ''Health,'' ''A Wedding,'' ''Secret Honor'' and ''Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean.'' IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $10.75. (Dave Kehr)

CRITICS CHOICE: GREAT DOCUMENTARIES (Tomorrow and Sunday) A series of significant documentaries chosen and introduced by members of the New York Film Critics Circle continues this weekend. Matt Zoller Seitz, who contributes to The New York Times and publishes The House Next Door Web site, is joined by the director Albert Maysles tomorrow for a screening of Mr. Maysles's 1968 cinema-verite study ''Salesman,'' and Stuart Klawans of The Nation on Sunday presents Nora Jacobson's hard look at real estate development in Hoboken, N.J., ''Delivered Vacant.'' (Through Feb. 25.) Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Kehr)

GLOBAL LENS 2007 (Tonight through Thursday) A continuing program of 10 feature films from developing countries, sponsored by the Global Film Initiative. This week's offerings include Li Yu's Chinese film ''Dam Street,'' about the friendship between a washed-up opera singer and a 10-year-old child, which concludes an extended run, with screenings tonight through Monday. On Thursday there's the Kurdistan-French co-production ''Kilometre Zero,'' a story of the ethnic conflict between Kurds and Iraqis set during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s, written and directed by Hiner Saleem. (Through Jan. 28.) Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)

KEN AND AZAZEL JACOBS (Tonight through Tuesday) Anthology Film Archives is holding the premiere engagements of two new films from the avant-garde eminence Ken Jacobs (whose epic exercise in associative editing, ''Star Spangled to Death,'' has recently been released on DVD) and Azazel Jacobs, a son of Mr. Jacobs who is following in his father's footsteps. ''The Goodtimeskid,'' is by the younger Mr. Jacobs and is a 77-minute color feature that follows two men with the same name and a woman involved with them both over the course of 24 hours in Los Angeles. ''Two Wrenching Departures,'' by the senior Mr. Jacobs, is a black-and-white video piece. First produced as a live performance, it is about two of Mr. Jacobs's friends, the underground filmmakers Jack Smith (''Flaming Creatures'') and Bob Fleischner (''Banners''), who died within a week of each other in October 1989. Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Kehr)

Pop
Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* 'THE AMERICAN BEAUTY PROJECT' (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Grateful Dead had its origins in the folk revival, but it took a while for the band to find the right balance between long-form psychedelic jams and small-scale, acoustic country-folk. A diverse group of musicians gathers this weekend to pay tribute to the Dead's two eureka albums from 1970. Performing songs from ''Workingman's Dead'' tomorrow are the Klezmatics, Ollabelle, the Holmes Brothers, Jim Lauderdale, Larry Campbell and Tim O'Reagan of the Jayhawks. Playing from ''American Beauty'' on Sunday are Mark Eitzel, Jay Farrar, Espers, Toshi Reagon, Jorma Kaukonen, Dar Williams, Mr. Lauderdale, Ollabelle and Mr. Campbell. Tony Trischka and Andy Statman play instrumental interludes. At 8 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Ben Sisario)

ARAMIRE (Tonight) This folk ensemble from the Salento region of Italy is dedicated to one of the lesser-known traditions of the country, the Greek-influenced music of the southeast of Italy's ''heel.'' With strings, accordion, flute and lots of tambourine, it pays particular attention to the pizzica, a galloping six-beat dance related to the tarantella and long used as a faith-healing cure for spider bites. At 8:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7000, carnegiehall.org; $30 to $42. (Sisario)

* CAMERA OBSCURA (Wednesday) Like their fellow Glaswegians Belle and Sebastian, Camera Obscura, led by the expressively plain-voiced Tracyanne Campbell, is in love with wistful 1960s folk-pop and plays a country-leaning variation on it with taste and finesse. With the Essex Green. At 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $15.50 in advance, $17 at the door. (Sisario)

* KRISTIN CHENOWETH (Tonight) This Tony Award-winning treasure plays the Metropolitan Opera House; she's only the third musical-theater person the Met has ever presented in a solo gig. Appearing with a 12-piece orchestra and dancers, she is to add some opera arias to her usual repertory. At 8, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $50 to $200. (Sisario)

CLIPSE (Wednesday) Comeback stories are rare and sweet in rap. In 2002 this Virginia duo rose all the way to No. 4 with sly rhymes about the criminal life and brutally minimal rhythm tracks by the Neptunes. Since then the Clipse struggled in music-industry purgatory but triumphed with ''Hell Hath No Fury'' (Re-Up Gang/Jive), another cold, lean and virtuosic exercise that was one of the best hip-hop albums of 2006. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)

COLD WAR KIDS (Wednesday) The craggy guitars, verge-of-a-breakdown vocals and elliptical songwriting of this band from Austin, Tex., put it at the top of the music-blogger food chain last year. Now comes the hard part: maintaining popularity as the Internet eye roves again. This month the band is bouncing back and forth between New York and Los Angeles each week in a ''bicoastal residency.'' With Illinois and the Virgins. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)

MARK EITZEL (Tonight) Depression is Mr. Eitzel's element; as leader of the American Music Club and through a solo career, he has anatomized melancholy down to the molecular level. In a weary voice, with tunes that blur folk songs and torch songs in a smoky haze, he looks at estrangement and betrayal, loneliness and separation, and bad luck. At 8, Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $12. (Jon Pareles)

DIAMANDA GALAS (Sunday) Though she is invariably dressed in black, with her face in witchy streaks of makeup, Ms. Galas needs only her voice to terrify and seduce. She slides from a low, sensual growl to painful yet musically precise shrieks, and has a vast repertory that ranges from Johnny Cash ballads to her own chilling AIDS Masses. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30. (Sisario)

* GLOBALFEST (Sunday) A one-night crash course in some of the best of what is called world music only because there is no other name for it, Globalfest, now in its fourth year, offers a dozen performers from around the planet. Among them, performing on three stages, are the suave Brazilian songwriter Lenine; Dengue Fever, a band from Los Angeles that resurrects the manically eclectic rock of pre-Khmer Rouge Cambodia; Les Primitifs du Futur, a French retro jazz-blues-Gypsy string band; Sara Tavares, a sensuous Cape Verdean singer; Lila Downs, whose take on Mexican rancheras and cumbias can be raucous or reverent; Le Trio Joubran, three oud-playing Palestinian brothers; and Andy Palacio and the Garifuna Collective, from Belize. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com or globalfest-ny.org; $40. (Sisario)

GOB IRON (Tonight and tomorrow night) Jay Farrar of Son Volt and Anders Parker of Varnaline have built careers on the idea of ragged, rock-tinged roots music: a little less grungy than Neil Young, a bit more plebeian than Bob Dylan. On ''Death Songs for the Living'' (Transmit Sound/Legacy), their joint album as Gob Iron, they repaint centuries of American music by the Carter Family, Josh White and Stephen Foster in gray, bleak tones; even Clarence Ashley's sprightly ''Coo-Coo Bird'' gets a despondent rewrite. Tonight at 9:30, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; tomorrow at 9, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $15. (Sisario)

PAUL GREEN SCHOOL OF ROCK MUSIC (Tomorrow and Sunday) As seen in the documentary ''Rock School,'' Mr. Green offers an extensive curriculum at his Philadelphia school, teaching youngsters the rock 'n' roll canon, as well as the fundamentals of power chords and budda-budda bass lines. Here his students offer their tribute to Black Sabbath, and if there is any guitar riff especially appropriate for 12-year-olds, it's ''Iron Man.'' At 2:30 p.m., Rebel, 251 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 695-2747, rebelnyc.com; $10. (Sisario)

HOLMES BROTHERS AND ALLEN TOUSSAINT (Tuesday) Steeped in blues and gospel, Sherman and Wendell Holmes harmonize and raise the rafters with songs that draw hope from hard times. Their version of gospel is a close neighbor of Southern soul and country. They are joined by Allen Toussaint, the musical statesman from New Orleans, for two sets. At 7 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30. (Pareles)

JERRY LEE LEWIS (Tonight) People pounded on pianos and hollered about hellfire before Jerry Lee Lewis, but nobody put it together in quite his way, which is the rock 'n' roll way. Now 71, Mr. Lewis recently released his first new album in 11 years, ''Last Man Standing'' (Artist First), which features appearances by the Rolling Stones, Bruce Springsteen and Eric Clapton, all happily overshadowed. With Jack Grace. At 8, B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $90. (Sisario)

LIGHTNING BOLT (Sunday) At first it is hard to believe that all the glorious chaos of Lightning Bolt -- a stalwart of the big noise-punk scene in Providence, R.I. -- is being made by only two people. But as the sound comes into focus, a playful give-and-take becomes clear, as the bassist Brian Gibson and the drummer and vocalist Brian Chippendale toss back and forth gigantic metal riffs and giggly high notes, creating rainbows of dissonance. At 9 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $10. (Sisario)

LINCOLN CENTER'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK (Tonight and tomorrow night) Now in its ninth season, this series has greatly expanded from its origins as a home for the midcentury pantheon of Harold Arlen, Richard Rodgers and the like. Tonight the Broadway soprano Judy Kuhn offers songs by Laura Nyro, who, along with Joni Mitchell, established the model for confessional, force-of-nature women's songwriting. Tomorrow Michael Franks plays his own music, including recent Brazilian-inspired works. At 8:30, Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; sold out. (Sisario)

LUNA LOUNGE (Tonight and tomorrow night) For a decade beginning in 1995, the Luna Lounge was one of the better rock dives on the Lower East Side, and not just for its foosball table; its tiny back room was host to thousands of bands who played free, including some, like Interpol and the Strokes, who went on to bigger things. A year and a half after losing its lease, the club reopens with roomier digs in Brooklyn, and if the bookings are any indication, the indie tradition will continue even if the no-cover policy will not. The Comas, a band from North Carolina with psychedelic leanings, headlines tonight with Falcon, from Brooklyn. Tomorrow features three appropriately little-known New York bands, Orange Park, the Picture and Motel Creeps. At 8, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, lunalounge.com; $10 tonight, $5 tomorrow. (Sisario)

HUGH MASEKELA, KLEZMATICS (Sunday) The South African flugelhorn player Hugh Masekela has more to offer than his international hit ''Grazing in the Grass.'' For decades he has brought together the three-chord lope of South African pop with the zigzagging possibilities of jazz. The Klezmatics love the laughing, moaning melodies of traditional klezmer music. They also love jazz, rock and downtown improvisation, and they bring all those styles to bear on their music, which can be raucous, hypnotic, reverent and dizzying, sometimes all in one quick-changing piece. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)

ERIN McKEOWN (Tuesday and Wednesday) A smiley sprite whose knack for wordplay and light touch on the guitar have sometimes evoked Tin Pan Alley, Ms. McKeown took the plunge in her new album, ''Sing You Sinners'' (Nettwerk), recording 12 nuggets by Harold Arlen, Cole Porter, Fats Waller and others (along with one by herself). If her voice is not quite up to the subtleties of wit the songs demand, her joy of discovery is sincere. With Sean Hayes. Tuesday at 7 p.m., Wednesday at 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario)

MEXICAN INSTITUTE OF SOUND (Tomorrow) A one-man mash-up of Mexican and Latin American music of the past and perhaps the future, Camilo Lara, from Mexico City, artfully mingles cumbias and cha-chas with dub and slippery electronica. Like Moby, he spins a dream of groovy eternal life through sounds that retain their kitsch and dance potential forever. With the Gritty Midi Gang. At 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $10. (Sisario)

* MISSION OF BURMA (Tonight) In the early 1980s this innovative and widely influential Boston band brought sharp, brainy guitar minimalism to American postpunk, and since reuniting in 2002 after almost 20 years, it still plays with passion and smarts. Here the band appears with two worthy descendants: Oneida and Turing Machine, both of Brooklyn. At 8, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $20. (Sisario)

ANDERS PARKER (Wednesday) Mr. Parker, who led the band Varnaline, immerses his songs in the stoic drama of country and folk music, resulting in a melancholy that is sometimes indistinguishable from cynicism. (''The hours I've wasted here I could have wasted anywhere.'') At 9 p.m., Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario)

BOB SEGER AND THE SILVER BULLET BAND (Thursday) In the fall Mr. Seger released ''Face the Promise'' (Capitol), his first new album in a decade. It's O.K., but a better illustration of what remains powerful in Mr. Seger's music was his performance of ''America the Beautiful'' at Game 1 of the last World Series: in a tender, soulful rasp, he evoked rock's gospel roots, and made a simple patriotic ode bring a stadium roaring to its feet. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $79.50. (Sisario)

* RICKY SKAGGS WITH BRUCE HORNSBY (Sunday) One of the most virtuosic musicians in bluegrass, Ricky Skaggs sends his fingers flying in a blur over mandolin, guitar and fiddle. He performs with Bruce Hornsby, whose years playing with the Grateful Dead made him a more versatile and playful musician. The two of them have a new album, due in March, that looks particularly versatile and playful: they do a version of Rick James's ''Super Freak.'' Sunday's concert also features opening sets by Shawn Colvin and Paul Thorn. At 7:30 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $55 in advance, $60 at the door. (Sisario)

SUBDUDES (Tomorrow) The Subdudes, from New Orleans, make cozy, mostly unplugged roots-rock: straightforward sentiments in tunes that mix a little country, a little blues, a little soul, a little zydeco and a little swing. The group's original lineup disbanded in 1996, but three founding members have revived the band and since 2004 released two new albums. At 7 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Pareles)

ZS (Sunday and Monday) The Zs, one of the most active avant-rock groups in New York, plays kinetic pieces that sputter forth in Morse code dots of percussion and saxophone. On Monday it plays with Dave Longstreth, whose band Dirty Projectors constructs elaborate ''glitch operas'' with precise harmonies and stark pluckings of guitar and strings, all arranged slightly out of whack. Sunday at 9 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036, cake-shop.com; $7. Monday at 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, near Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934, zebuloncafeconcert.com; no cover. (Sisario)

Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AMPERSAND/KNEEBODY (Tuesday) The guitarist Tim Ziesmer features his own rock-influenced compositions in Ampersand, with Chris Speed on tenor saxophone, Dave Ambrosio on bass and Ted Poor on drums. Kneebody, a collective that includes the keyboardist Adam Benjamin and the trumpeter Shane Endsley, convincingly blends rock, funk and soul in a rugged and exploratory modern fusion. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Nate Chinen)

* THE BAD PLUS (Tuesday through Thursday) The pianist Ethan Iverson, the bassist Reid Anderson and the drummer David King constitute the Bad Plus, a delivery system for smartly sweeping original songs as well as wryly affectionate renditions of pop tunes. They caused a stir among jazz purists when they first headlined at the Village Vanguard a few years ago; by now the engagement has become a happy ritual, and the band has nothing to prove but its own continuing vitality. (Through Jan. 28.) At 9 and 11 p.m. (with a 12:30 set on Jan. 27), Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SAM BARDFELD (Tonight) Mr. Bardfeld, a violinist with a wide-ranging resume, revisits the music from his evocative recent album ''Periodic Trespasses (The Saul Cycle)'' (Fresh Sound New Talent). At 9 p.m., BAMcafe, 30 Lafayette Avenue, between Ashland Place and St. Felix Street, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; no cover. (Chinen)

* DON BYRON (Monday) Jazz has many card-carrying eclectics these days, but none more self-assured than the clarinetist Don Byron, who will match wits with two very different pianists: Ursula Oppens, a classical interpreter known for the range of her interests, and Kenny Barron, an improviser with a soulfully sophisticated style. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $25 in advance, $30 on Monday. (Chinen)

ROBERTO CARCASSES, DAFNIS PRIETO, YOSVANY TERRY AND YUNIOR TERRY (Tomorrow) Cuban folk tradition collides with contemporary jazz protocol in a group featuring Mr. Carcasses on keyboards, Mr. Prieto on drums and the Terry brothers, Yosvany and Yunior, on saxophone and bass respectively. At 10 and 11:30 p.m., Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, between Havemeyer and Marcy Streets, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-0069, liveatrose.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JIMMY COBB'S MOB (Tuesday and Wednesday) Jimmy Cobb, a masterful hard bop drummer, has served as a mentor to many young musicians through this band; one of them, the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander, takes the melodic lead here. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

STEVE COLEMAN (Tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Mr. Coleman, the avant-garde alto saxophonist and composer, programmed this month's schedule at the Stone, leaving a handful of spaces for his own explorations. Tomorrow he convenes a group called Aquarius Ingress consisting of seven reed players, including the saxophonist Miguel Zenon and the clarinetist Chris Speed; on Sunday and Thursday he leads Five Elements, his adventurously funk-focused working band. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

TAYLOR EIGSTI AND JULIAN LAGE (Monday) Mr. Eigsti, a pianist, and Mr. Lage, a guitarist, are precociously talented players with a substantive history together, as well as a fruitful affiliation with the Concord label. At 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BILL EVANS'S SOULGRASS (Tuesday through Thursday) Virtuosity, the ingredient shared by bluegrass and fusion, will be in copious supply during this summit organized by the saxophonist Bill Evans, featuring Tony Trischka on banjo, Sam Bush on mandolin, Christian Howes on violin, Richard Bona on bass and Dave Weckl on drums. (Through Jan. 28.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

DOMINICK FARINACCI (Monday) A sharp and promising young trumpeter, Mr. Farinacci leads a quintet consisting of the vibraphonist Joe Locke, the pianist Danny Grissett, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Ari Hoenig. At 9 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

AYELET ROSE GOTTLIEB (Sunday) Ms. Gottlieb is a commanding vocalist whose most recent album, ''Mayim Rabim'' (Tzadik), features scriptural texts in the original Hebrew. Her high-grade sextet includes Avishai Cohen on trumpet, Loren Stillman on alto saxophone, Anat Fort on piano, Ed Schuller on bass and Take Toriyama on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

STEFON HARRIS (Tomorrow and Sunday) ''African Tarantella: Dances With Duke'' (Blue Note), the latest album by the vibraphonist Stefon Harris, features music from two Duke Ellington suites, along with several original themes. As on the album, Mr. Harris augments his working quartet with reeds and strings, and with the trombonist Steve Turre. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tomorrow only, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)

VIJAY IYER (Tonight) A pianist-composer given to restive energies and rhythmic conundrums, Mr. Iyer performs in two promising settings: with a trio featuring the attentive bassist Stephan Crump and the supple drummer Marcus Gilmore, and later in a duo with the alto saxophonist Steve Coleman, one of his mentors. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

STEVE LEHMAN (Tuesday) Mr. Lehman is a saxophonist who pursues an abstract lyricism informed by myriad traditions. His quintet includes sharp and sympathetic peers like the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson, the drummer Tyshawn Sorey and the bassist Drew Gress. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

GEORGE LEWIS (Tuesday) Mr. Lewis, a trombonist and pedagogue affiliated with Columbia University and the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians, performs two abstract sets: a duo performance with the bassist Reggie Workman, and then a solo improvisation with laptop electronics. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RAMSEY LEWIS (Monday) A successful crossover artist for more than 40 years, the pianist and broadcaster Ramsey Lewis presents a coolly boppish working trio with Larry Gray on bass and Leon Joyce Jr. on drums. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

TONY MALABY, WILLIAM PARKER AND NASHEET WAITS (Sunday) Strenuous free and not-quite-free improvisation, courtesy of several people who know the territory well: Mr. Malaby, tenor saxophonist; Mr. Parker, bassist; and Mr. Waits, drummer. At 7 and 9 p.m., Jimmy's 43 Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MALAMUTE (Tuesday) Though named after a breed of Arctic sled dog, this collective promises something other than steady propulsion; with Jim Black on drums, Kieran Daly on electric mandolin and Nate Wooley on trumpet, it's likely to tumble ahead in fits and starts. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

DONNY McCASLIN (Tonight) As on his recent album ''Soar'' (Sunnyside), Mr. McCaslin applies his extroverted saxophone style to a Latin American-inspired contemporary fusion, benefiting greatly from the contributions of the bassist Scott Colley and the percussionists Antonio Sanchez and Pernell Saturnino. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

MIKE MORENO (Tonight) A versatile and increasingly prominent guitarist, Mr. Moreno features his own compositions in a post-bop quintet featuring the saxophonist John Ellis and the pianist Aaron Parks. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)

JOE MORRIS (Wednesday) Mr. Morris has an angular but appealing guitar style, and bright ideas about how to organize timbres. His quintet here includes Michael Winograd on clarinet, Daniel Blacksberg on trombone, Daniel Levin on cello and Michael Evans on drums. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* DAVID MURRAY BLACK SAINT QUARTET (Monday through Wednesday) A spirited and often blustery tenor saxophonist, David Murray leads a hard-driving group featuring Lafayette Gilchrist on piano, Ray Drummond on bass and Andrew Cyrille on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)

NYC BALKAN GYPSY AND BEYOND (Tonight) A convention of three boisterous groups with similarly folksy inspirations: the Paradox Trio, led by the clarinetist Matt Darriau; Romski Boji, led by the percussionist Seido Salifoski; and Slavic Soul Party, fronted by the percussionist Matt Moran. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)

* NYC WINTER JAZZFEST (Tomorrow) The Knitting Factory commits all three of its floors to jazz during this sprawling one-night festival, which will feature 18 different bands. Among the highlights are groups led by the bassist Henry Grimes, the pianists Marc Cary and Robert Glasper, and the violinist Jenny Scheinman. From 6 p.m. to 1 a.m., 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

JEREMY PELT (Tomorrow) The clarion tone and preternatural poise of Mr. Pelt's trumpet playing have earmarked him as a rising star in the jazz mainstream. His quintet features a frequent foil, the guitarist Mike Moreno. At midnight, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $10, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BEN RILEY'S MONK LEGACY SEPTET (Wednesday and Thursday) Ben Riley, one of the most buoyant drummers ever to serve under Thelonious Monk's employ, honors the pianist and composer's memory with this rock-solid septet, stocked with players like the trumpeter Don Sickler and the saxophonists Wayne Escoffery and Bruce Williams. (Through Jan. 27.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JEROME SABBAGH (Thursday) Mr. Sabbagh, a coolly composed tenor saxophonist and composer in the postmodern mainstream, leads a sleek ensemble with Ben Monder on guitar, Joe Martin on bass and Ted Poor on drums. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

MATTHEW SHIPP (Tomorrow) Mr. Shipp's pianism is often prickly but rarely off-putting, because even his free improvisations tend to follow a faintly linear path. He performs solo here, as on a thoughtful recent album called ''One'' (Thirsty Ear). At 8 and 9:30 p.m., Tenri Cultural Institute, 43A West 13th Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, Greenwich Village, (212) 645-2800, tenri.org; $15. (Chinen)

HELEN SUNG (Tonight and tomorrow) The pianist Helen Sung leads a post-bop quartet featuring the articulate alto saxophonist Steve Wilson. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES (BLOOD) ULMER (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Ulmer's singing and guitar playing describe an oddly hypnotic combination of influences: Ornette Coleman's polytonality crossed with the psychedelic swagger of Jimi Hendrix. He performs here with a group that includes the keyboardist Amina Claudine Myers and the drummer Aubrey Dale. (Through Jan. 28) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CEDAR WALTON (Tonight and tomorrow) As a pianist and composer, Mr. Walton pursues an articulate, almost courtly variety of hard bop. His rhythm section here includes the bassist David Williams and the drummer George Fludas. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

Classical
Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'ACIS AND GALATEA' (Tuesday) Staged opera or home entertainment? Handel's early pastoral opera has been the subject of debate since it was written. Probably first performed for a private group at a country estate, it was later revived as a staged opera by another manager eager to capitalize on Handel's Italian-opera success -- in competition with Handel's own opera company. Now, New York, having experienced the work on an operatic scale in City Opera's 2001 production, can sample it in a more intimate form: presented by the five-member Aulos Ensemble (acclaimed early-music specialists) and four vocal soloists at the Met -- not the opera, but the museum. At 6:30 p.m., Medieval Sculpture Hall, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $50. (Anne Midgette)

'LA BOHEME' (Wednesday) Franco Zeffirelli's overblown ''Boheme'' returns to the Metropolitan Opera for its first airing of the new year, and the Chilean soprano Cristina Gallardo-Domas returns to sing Mimi, the role with which she made her house debut in 1996. Her Rodolfo is the excellent tenor Marcello Giordani; they both have the vocal and dramatic chops to make an impact in Zeffirelli's massive sets. Ainhoa Arteta is Musetta, Dwayne Croft is Marcello, and Carlo Rizzi conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $80 tickets remaining. (Vivien Schweitzer)

'THE FIRST EMPEROR' (Monday and Thursday) The excitement of a world premiere at the Met, combined with widespread interest among the general public in the composer Tan Dun, who won an Oscar for his film score to ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,'' have resulted in a sold-out run for ''The First Emperor.'' Alas, though the story of Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of China, who unified the country through brutality and conquest, is compelling, Mr. Tan's ponderous score is a huge disappointment. There are gripping moments, especially some propulsive orchestra passages that incorporate Chinese instruments. But the opera's lyrical flights are slow-moving, ponderous and sometimes cloying. Mr. Tan has tried to meld Chinese melody and Italianate lyricism. But his music seems caught in some nowhere land between ''Crouching Tiger'' and Puccini's ''Turandot.'' Even the great Placido Domingo, bravely taking on the challenging title role, cannot save the show. The colorful production is by the Chinese film director Zhang Yimou (''House of Flying Daggers''). Mr. Tan conducts. There are two more performances. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org. (Anthony Tommasini)

* 'MOSTLY OPERETTA' (Tonight, tomorrow, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) The Austrian Cultural Forum's innovative festival, which pairs 20th-century operetta in intimate recitals with contemporary visuals in an effort to move the genre into the 21st century, winds up this week with three programs by Viennese singers who specialize in operetta: two programs that pay homage to some composers forced to emigrate by the Nazis, and a selection of Kurt Weill's songs arranged into what the forum's director calls ''a kind of 'Winterreise.' '' At 7 p.m, 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette)

* 'IL SIGNOR BRUSCHINO' (Thursday) Mention Rossini and most people come up with ''The Barber of Seville,'' but this work -- in which the composer honed the comic gift that came to the fore in ''Barber'' and other ''opere buffe'' -- hasn't been staged in New York since 1933. The Gotham Chamber Opera has set itself apart among the city's small opera companies with quality performances of less-known operas (with good singers), conducted by the company's founder, Neal Goren: it is opening this frothy piece of fun with a gala performance on Thursday. (The run continues, at normal ticket prices, next week.) At 7:30 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 279-4200, gothamchamberopera.org; $300. (Midgette)

'THE TENDER LAND' (Tomorrow and Sunday) In 1976, when the enterprising Bronx Opera Company first presented Copland's ''Tender Land,'' the composer participated in rehearsals and attended productions. For its current production, the company is using the effective chamber version of the orchestral score arranged by Murry Sidlin. Royston Coppenger is the director, and Michael Spierman conducts. At 2 p.m., Heckscher Theater, El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (718) 960-8833, bronxopera.org; $20 to $35. (Tommasini)

* 'LA TRAVIATA' (Tuesday) The admirable soprano Hei-Kyung Hong gives a beautifully sung and deeply felt portrayal of Violetta in the Met revival of Verdi's ''Traviata,'' in Franco Zeffirelli's extravagant 1998 production. The other news is the promising performance of an artist who, like Ms. Hong, is also from South Korea: the tenor Wookyung Kim, singing Alfredo in his Met debut season. As a Verdi tenor, Mr. Kim is a little green. But he has an appealing and robust voice, and at his best, sings with ardor and flair. The baritone Charles Taylor, who was ill on opening night, is scheduled to sing Germont. Carlo Rizzi conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $80 to $175. (Tommasini)

Classical Music

* ALARM WILL SOUND (Tomorrow) This supremely inventive new-music ensemble offers an expansive look at the music of Edgard Varese in Miller Theater's Composer Portraits series. Among the 10 works on the program are the early ''Grand Sommeil Noir''; ''Ionisation,'' for percussion ensemble; ''Density 21.5,'' for flute; and several orchestral works. The main curiosity, though, is an orchestrated arrangement of the ''Poeme Electronique,'' which is normally heard in the electronic tape version that Varese completed in 1958. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25; $15 for students. (Allan Kozinn)

DANIEL BARENBOIM (Tomorrow and Sunday) In a charming and revealing program note (available on carnegiehall.org), Mr. Barenboim writes of having been reared from his earliest years on Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier.'' When he arrived at 12 for his first lesson in Paris with Nadia Boulanger, this formidable teacher opened the score to the Prelude in E minor from Book 1 and told him, ''Play it for me in A minor.'' This weekend Mr. Barenboim, a formidable pianist, will play that prelude (in the original key) in his two-program survey of the complete 48 preludes and fugues from Bach's monumental work. Book 1 tomorrow at 8 p.m., Book 2 on Sunday at 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $34 to $108. (Tommasini)

KRISTIAN BEZUIDENHOUT (Thursday) This South African fortepianist gave a fine recital at the Miller Theater in November, and returns with another program, as part of the Boston Early Music Festival's series in the Morgan Library & Museum's intimate new hall. His program includes Mozart's Sonata in F (K. 494) and Variations on ''Unser dummer Pobel meint'' (K. 455); Benda's Sonata in A minor; and Haydn's Variations in F minor. At 7:30 p.m. (preconcert lecture at 7), Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org; $45; $35 for members. (Kozinn)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday and Tuesday) Music for four-hand piano used to be a staple of the repertory, particularly in the days before recordings, when the way most people enjoyed music was to play it themselves. In this program seven pianists (including Charles Wadsworth, a past director of the society, and Wu Han, a current co-director, as well as Gilbert Kalish and Anne-Marie McDermott) take on works for four hands by Mozart, Mendelssohn, Faure, Stravinsky and Lutoslawski (whose Variations on a Theme of Paganini is the only one to employ two separate pianos). Sunday at 5 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $28 to $50. (Midgette)

* 'DECASIA' (Thursday) The composer Michael Gordon and the filmmaker Bill Morrison have collaborated on this enveloping multimedia work. Mr. Morrison's contribution is a fast-cut montage of antique films, in which bubbles and other signs of decay create patterns as crucial to the work as the images of cowboys, flappers, factory workers, dancers, parachutists and exotic scenes from the Middle East and North Africa. Mr. Gordon's powerful 65-minute score -- played by an orchestra deployed in the balconies -- evolves from a faint, metallic rattle to a barrage of percussion, electric guitars, brass choirs, woodwinds and strings. At 7 and 9:30 p.m., Orensanz Center for the Arts, 172 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101; $25. (Kozinn)

* HILLIARD ENSEMBLE (Sunday) In its performance on the Music Before 1800 series, this British vocal ensemble, here in a quartet configuration (David James, Rogers Covey-Crump, Steven Harrold and Gordon Jones), sings the Lassus Requiem, with antiphons and motets by Palestrina interposed between the movements. At 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org; $25 to $40; $5 off for students and 62+. (Kozinn)

KIRILL GERSTEIN (Sunday) The Metropolitan Museum presents the third of four young up-and-coming pianists in its Accolades series. This week the spotlight is on the Russian pianist Kirill Gerstein, who won first prize at the 2001 Arthur Rubinstein Piano Competition and was awarded the 2002 Gilmore Young Artist Award. He will perform Haydn's Sonata in D (Hob. XVI:37), Schumann's whimsical ''Humoresque,'' Ligeti's Etudes, Busoni's Sonatina No. 6 and an arrangement of the Scherzo from Tchaikovsky's Sixth Symphony. At 2:30 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $20. (Schweitzer)

* MOSCOW SOLOISTS (Thursday) Wu Man, the fleet-fingered and adventurous Chinese pipa player, frequently adds the sound of her exotic instrument to Western ensembles. With the violist Yuri Bashmet and his Moscow Soloists (a group formed in 1992 and made up of young graduates of the Moscow Conservatory), she will perform Tan Dun's Concerto for String Orchestra and Pipa (a pipa is a Chinese lute), a work whose premiere she performed in 2001. The program also includes Toru Takemitsu's ''Nostalgia'' and his Three Film Scores for Strings, and Hikaru Hayashi's Concerto for Viola and Strings, ''Elegie.'' At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $28 and $40. (Schweitzer)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today, tomorrow and Thursday) Riccardo Muti, the exacting Italian maestro, is in town for two weeks to conduct the Philharmonic. This weekend's program offers the brilliant violinist Vadim Repin in Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto and Scriabin's strangely mystical and musically visionary Symphony No. 3, ''Le Divin Poeme.'' On Thursday Mr. Muti presents the first of three performances of an all-Italian program, with ballet music from Verdi's ''Macbeth,'' Respighi's ''Feste Romane'' and a little-known piano concerto from 1885 by Giuseppe Martucci, a work admired by Toscanini, Mahler and, of course, Mr. Muti. Gerhard Oppitz is the soloist. Today at 2 p.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $24 to $96. (Tommasini)

JORGE FEDERICO OSORIO (Monday) This Mexican pianist has recorded everything from Brahms to Ponce (and, most recently, Mozart violin sonatas with Ani Kavafian) but has only infrequently performed in New York. His solo recital juxtaposes works by two Spanish composers, Soler and Albeniz, with preludes by Debussy, showpieces by Liszt and Beethoven's Sonata No. 30. At 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $20 to $45. (Midgette)

* 'REQUIEM FOR DARFUR' (Monday) The Democracy Council, a human-rights advocacy group, is sponsoring this performance of Verdi's magisterial Requiem by musicians from orchestras including the New York and Berlin Philharmonics and the Met and Philadelphia Orchestras. The event, which benefits Unicef and other charities involved in aid work in Darfur, has Mia Farrow as its host, and features as soloists the soprano Alexandra Deshorties, the mezzo-soprano Sarah Heltzel, the tenor Scott Piper and the bass Morris Robinson; George Mathew conducts. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $27 to $500. (Schweitzer)

RIVERSIDE SYMPHONY (Tomorrow) Even by its own adventurous standards, the Riverside Symphony is offering an offbeat program tomorrow. The most eclectic item is Villa-Lobos's Harmonica Concerto. The harmonica virtuoso Robert Bonfiglio says he has performed the work more than 350 times. I've never heard it. Have you? Here is your chance, on a program that also offers Mozart's ''Haffner'' Symphony and Honegger's Neo-Classical Symphony No. 4 (''Delights of Basel''). George Rothman conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $50. (Tommasini)

ABBEY SIMON (Tuesday) The Walter W. Naumburg Foundation is offering a retrospective concert series in which it presents former winners of its competition. Mr. Simon, the pianist, won in 1941, and his recordings of the Romantic repertory have always been highly regarded, with Chopin as a particular favorite. At his ''Naumburg Looks Back'' recital, he plays music of Chopin and Schumann. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)

* 'THE SONG CONTINUES' (Tuesday through Thursday) The master classes are going to be a hotter ticket than the recitals at the Marilyn Horne Foundation's annual celebration of the art of song. Leading off at Zankel Hall is the celebrated Barbara Cook; the next night it's the soprano Evelyn Lear; on Thursday it's Ms. Horne herself. The duo recitals by young artists supported by Ms. Horne's foundation, like Joslin Romphf, a soprano, and Lee Poulis, a baritone, on Wednesday; or Hanan Alattar, a soprano, and Timothy Falton, a tenor, on Thursday, have been relegated to the 5:30 time slot at Weill Recital Hall. (The series continues with a gala concert next Friday.) Master classes, Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; recitals, Wednesday and Thursday at 5:30 p.m.; Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 for master classes; $5 for recitals; some events sold out. (Midgette)

TAKACS QUARTET (Tonight) This string quartet has undergone a few personnel changes in recent years, and in the process its sound and focus have improved considerably. A Beethoven cycle at Lincoln Center two years ago showed it to be in remarkable form. This time Takacs offers Debussy's Quartet and Shostakovich's Quartet No. 11, before returning to Beethoven for the Quartet in A minor (Op. 132). At 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Kozinn)

* TOKYO STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) This venerable quartet continues its residency at the 92nd Street Y and its commemoration of the 150th anniversary of Schumann's death with a performance of his String Quartet in A minor. The program also includes Schumann's poignant song cycle ''Dichterliebe,'' sung by the fine Canadian lyric baritone Russell Braun, accompanied by the pianist Carolyn Maule. Paul Hecht, an actor, will read poems from Heinrich Heine's ''Lyrisches Intermezzo,'' on which Schumann based these songs. At 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer)

Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

RUTH CANSFIELD DANCE (Tonight through Sunday night) In its first New York performances, this Canadian company will present three dances by Ruth Cansfield, set to music by Debussy, Rachmaninoff and Crumb, that explore characters' hidden stories, movement without artifice and voyages of the soul. At 9, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (866) 405-5810, ruthcansfield.com; $17; $13.60 for students and 65+. (Jennifer Dunning)

CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The company opens its winter season with a program of dance by Jacopo Godani of Italy, Edgar Zendejas of Mexico and New York's own Benoit-Swan Pouffer, who directs Cedar Lake. (Through Jan. 27.) At 8, Cedar Lake Theater, 547 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $30; $20 for 65+ and students with ID. (Dunning)

CREATIVE OUTLET DANCE THEATER OF BROOKLYN (Today through Sunday) Jamel Gaines's ''Remembering -- Lest We Forget'' explores historical accounts of the Middle Passage, slavery and emancipation. This vibrant company will also perform two repertory matinees tomorrow, starring Bahiyah Sayyed Gaines, and on Sunday. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30, Sunday at 3 p.m., Kumble Theater for the Performing Arts, Long Island University Brooklyn Campus, Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues, Brooklyn, (718) 488-1624, creativeoutlet.org; $30; $25 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* DANCE GOTHAM FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) Ten modern-dance companies will perform on two different programs, among them Montreal Danse, Johannes Wieland and Keely Garfield (tomorrow) and Kun-Yang Lin/Dancers, Nicolas Andre Dance Theater and Koresh Dance Company (Sunday). Appearing both nights will be Paradigm, the Carolyn Dorfman Dance Company, Keigwin & Company and Battleworks. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, www.symphonyspace.org; $10. (Dunning)

ANDREA DEL CONTE DANZA ESPANA (Thursday) This program of flamenco dance will feature the dancer Marco De Ana and the fusion band Gazpacho Andalu. (Through Jan. 28.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $28; $25 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

CHEZ BUSHWICK: 'AMBUSH: A CURE FOR APAP' (Tomorrow) Bless the Bushwickites for this shrug at the phenomenon of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters, which brings dance producers to New York City en masse to assess the talent during a hectic few days -- frustrating to some dance artists -- of conferences and performing. Contributors to the Bushwick program are Matthew Barney, Jonah Bokaer, Foofwa d'Imobilite, Sam Kim, Jennifer Lacey, Antonietta Vicario and Jeremy Wade. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Fire Proof, 119 Ingraham Street, Brooklyn, (718) 418-4405, www.bam.org/events; $5. (Dunning)

* DIAVOLO (Tomorrow) This Los Angeles-based multimedia company performs ingenious trompe l'oeil spectacles that seamlessly combine dance, gymnastics and cinematic images. Is that a real or a filmed dog racing across the stage? At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College, one block from the junction of Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718) 951-4500, brooklyncenteronline.org; $15 to $25. (Dunning)

* JAPANESE CONTEMPORARY DANCE SHOWCASE (Tonight through Sunday) If it's January in New York, it's time for Japanese dance. For this event's 10th anniversary, the Japan Society has relocated to the Joyce. But the eclectic, pop-influenced sampler should be as strange and beguiling as ever. Two programs feature work by Pappa Tarahumara, Kim Itoh & the Glorious Future, Leni-Basso and Noism07. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $30; $23 for members. (Claudia La Rocco)

* LOWER LIGHTS COLLECTIVE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Members of this multimedia group have worked with some pretty impressive people in dance. And how can you go wrong with a company that describes its collaborative process as ignoring one another while allowing for the subtle influence of what is seen out of the corner of the eye? In its new ''CRAM,'' the group will pour dance; a ''live horror film''; sound and noise installations; a ''living sculpture'' using potatoes as percussion; and an orchestra of instruments made from architectural salvage into every cranny of this space. At 8, Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $15. (Dunning)

* SUSAN MARSHALL & COMPANY (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) Ms. Marshall returns with her Bessie Award-winning ''Cloudless,'' a suite of brief distilled dances. (Through Feb. 3.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $25. (Dunning)

* MONEY MATTERS (Thursday) Sure does, and it matters a lot that Dixon Place raises funds for a much-needed home on Chrystie Street. Performers in this benefit include Souloworks and Gerald Casel and Jessy Smith. At 7:30 p.m., University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736; $10 or more. (Dunning)

* MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Tonight, tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) Welcome 2007 a little late with a celebratory program of dances by Mr. Morris that includes the premiere of ''Italian Concerto,'' set to Bach, and ''The Argument,'' ''Sang-Froid'' and ''Love Song Waltzes.'' (Through Jan. 27.) At 7:30 p.m. (the MMDG Music Ensemble performs tonight at 10), Mark Morris Dance Center, 3 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place (across the street from the Brooklyn Academy of Music), Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (212) 352-3101, mmdg.org; sold out. (Dunning)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company will present the first of 10 themed programs, ''Stravinsky and Balanchine: An Eternal Partnership'' (''Agon,'' ''Monumentum/Movements,'' ''Duo Concertant'' and ''Symphony in Three Movements'') tonight, tomorrow afternoon and Thursday. Its second program, ''Tradition and Innovation'' (''Mozartiana,'' ''In Vento'' and Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 2), will follow on Tuesday. And ''Jerome Robbins: An American Icon'' (''2 & 3 Part Inventions,'' ''A Suite of Dances,'' ''In Memory Of '' and ''I'm Old Fashioned'') enters the repertory tomorrow night and is repeated on Sunday and Wednesday. (Through Feb. 25.) Tonight and Thursday night at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, wnycballet.com; $20 to 95. (Dunning)

NEW YORK THEATER BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Choreography by Benoit Swan-Pouffer, Alexandra Damiana, Matthew Neenan, Sallie Wilson and David Parker will be presented in this latest installment of the company's ''Dance on a Shoestring'' series. At 7, Dance Gallery, 30 East 31st Street, Manhattan, (212) 679-0401; $20. (Dunning)

SANDRA PARKER AND SHELLEY LASICA (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Parker, who is from Australia, will present a dance about the notions of travel, distance and proximity, and Ms. Lasica has contributed a piece with changing casts and choreography. Ms. Parker, tonight at 8, tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m.; Ms. Lasica, tonight at 10, tomorrow at 5 and 9 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; free, but reservations necessary. (Dunning)

* PEAK PERFORMANCES AT MONTCLAIR: TRISHA BROWN (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Brown, now 70, celebrates her influential career in modern dance with a new work, ''I love my robots,'' that suggests that she is as innovative as ever. A collaboration with the visual artist Kenjiro Okazaki and the performance artist Laurie Anderson, ''robots'' will feature what Mr. Okazaki describes as two interactive ''sculptural apparitions.'' The evening also includes performances of Ms. Brown's 1983 ''Set and Reset'' and her 2005 ''how long does the subject linger on the edge of the volume?'' Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 3 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, 1 Normal Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org; $35. (Dunning)

LAURA PETERSON CHOREOGRAPHY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Peterson, who has danced with everyone from Risa Jaroslow to Poppo and the GoGo Boys, describes her new ''I Love Dan Flavin'' as a tongue-in-cheek futuristic dance with fluorescent light and pioneering techno music. (Through Jan. 27.) At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, Ext. 11, dixonplace.org; $15 or T.D.F. vouchers; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

'TWO: DUETS' (Thursday) Chosen by Nicki Marshall and Helen Styring Tocci, five pairs of dance artists explore the intimacy and colliding energies of the duet form. (Through Jan. 27.) At 8 p.m., WOW Cafe Theater, 59 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-4280; $15; $12 for students and artists. (Dunning)

MIGUEL ANGEL ZOTTO'S TANGO X 2 (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Zotto, who performed on Broadway in ''Tango Argentino,'' is bringing a company of 16 dancers and 8 musicians to perform ''Su Historia,'' a medley of tango dances and scores, and a tribute to Astor Piazzolla and his lyricist Horacio Ferrer. (Through Jan. 28.) At 8 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, tangox2.com; $35 to $85. (Dunning)

Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

* AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Roberta Smith)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'DESIGN LIFE NOW: NATIONAL DESIGN TRIENNIAL 2006,' through July 29. This ambitious show illuminates the volatile, contradictory and ever-expanding field of design, but fails to call it to order. It covers medical innovation, military hardware, frivolous reiterations of received ideas, sundry Web sites and magazines, haute couture, architecture and recycling. The show coalesces into deliberately orchestrated skirmishes between conflicting principles and entities: corporate and private, decorative and essential. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, ndm.si.edu. (Smith)

* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'SPANISH PAINTING FROM EL GRECO TO PICASSO, TIME, TRUTH, AND HISTORY' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. I can't tell you how often I was stopped by a picture so good or unexpected that it made me do a double take. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

* THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920S,' through Feb. 19. The 100 paintings and drawings on display here are by 10 artists, including George Grosz, Christian Schad, and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble; we look into the faces of museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92) portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck)

* MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'SAUL STEINBERG: ILLUMINATIONS,' through March 4. Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker cover positioning Manhattan at the center of the world may be his best-known drawing, but he took on everything with visual puns, manic doodles, grandiloquent calligraphy and other inspired artifice. As this show of more than 100 drawings, collages and constructions goes on, Steinberg's progress is evident: from relatively simple cartoons like ''Feet on Chair'' (1946), in which a fellow reading a newspaper parks his feet on the seat of an ornate Victorian monstrosity, to complex comments on the state of the world, like ''Street War (Cadavre Exquisis)'' (about 1972-74), derived from news clips of postcolonial troubles in the Middle East and Africa. The flow of his work amazes. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Glueck)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MANET AND THE EXECUTION OF MAXIMILIAN,' through Jan. 29. This gripping show reminds us of Modernism's mutinous, myth-scouring origins. And it does so by bringing one of art's great path-cutters, Edouard Manet, onto the scene, wry, politically infuriated and painting like Lucifer. There's not a lot of him here -- eight paintings, three on a single theme: the death by firing squad of the Austrian archduke Ferdinand Maximilian in Mexico in 1867. But it's enough. Manet's images, surrounded by a riveting selection of prints and photographs, are electrifying. (212) 708-9400, www.moma.org. (Holland Cotter)

* MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'A CITY ON PAPER: SAUL STEINBERG'S NEW YORK,' through March 25. A very lively adjunct to the Morgan show, this display of some 40 drawings focuses on New York. An architect, Steinberg was particularly attracted to edifices like the Chrysler Building, which appears here looming over brownstones and in another incarnation, from a perspective directly below it, looking positively squat. New York people, in Steinberg's eyes, could be monuments, too. You may think you know Steinberg's work, but these shows make it new. 1220 Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Glueck)

WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'KIKI SMITH: A GATHERING, 1980-2005,' through Feb. 11. Many things fly and float here: men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)

Galleries: Chelsea

* ROBERT IRWIN: 'WHO'S AFRAID OF RED, YELLOW AND BLUE 3' In the past, Robert Irwin has paid homage to Joseph Albers. Now he makes a bow to a different kind of perceptual magician, Barnett Newman, turning Newman's 1966-70 paintings titled ''Who's Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue'' into a kind of self-reflective architecture. Optical illusionism has long been Mr. Irwin's calling card, but here he has achieved it by bare-bones means, offering quieting visual fare for an overstimulated world. PaceWildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 929-7000, pacewildenstein.com, through Feb. 3. (Cotter)

* JAPAN, INC. See this show of work by six painters who are either Japanese or inspired by Japanese culture primarily for Iona Rozeal Brown's dynamic new canvas ''King Kata.'' Through sharpened color and scale and by taking more liberties with her sources, Ms. Brown has markedly increased the visual punch of her characteristic kimono-and-cornrows cross-cultural fusion of cartoons, Japanese woodblock actor prints and gangsta chic. Her contribution underscores the vacuousness of much contemporary realist painting. Kravets Wehby, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 352-2238, through Feb. 17. (Smith)

Other Galleries

* 'THE CONSTANT POSSIBILITY OF ERASURE,' through Jan. 29. Organized by Donna Harkavy and Gracie Mansion, this excellent group show is at once witty and elegaic, exploring transience as an existential reality and as a conceptual ploy in late-20th-century art. Robert Rauschenberg's 1953 ''Erased De Kooning'' is an important reference point, present through Mike Bidlo's painstaking recreation. Joseph Beuys, Gary Simmons and Christian Xarec all have chalk pieces on blackboards, while Allan Kaprow preferred drawing, and simultaneously erasing, chalk pictures on the sidewalks or streets. Joanne Stamerra Hendricks uses erasers as a medium, and Jim Dingilian uses smoke. Dorsky Gallery Curatorial Projects, 11-03 45th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-6317. (Cotter)

* OLIVER HALSMAN ROSENBERG: 'DADA FOR GRANDMA,' through Jan. 28. Mr. Rosenberg conceived this show of a dozen lovely, small gouache paintings with references to the zodiac, the Kabala and Egyptian and Hindu cosmology as a tribute to his grandmother Yvonne Halsman who died last year. She was the wife of the Dada photographer Phillipe Halsman, and Dada zaniness has its part in the show. The artist has turned the paintings into an ingeniously low-tech ''prayer wheel'' set into motion by the visitor pedaling his grandmother's exercise bicycle. Mr. Rosenberg, a founder of the alternative space Triple Base in San Francisco who is, with Clint Taniguchi, half of the collaborative Crust & Dirt, has other drawings in a box at Triple Candie, worth a look. Little Cakes, 625 East Sixth Street, Apt. 1B, East Village, (646) 342-1056. (Cotter)

Last Chance

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'ANNIE LEIBOVITZ: A PHOTOGRAPHER'S LIFE, 1990-2005,' With photographs of her close-knit family and her companion, Susan Sontag; bits of photojournalism; and a pretentious foray into landscape photography, this large exhibition tells you more about Ms. Leibovitz than you probably want to know. Not surprisingly, her celebrity portraits are strongest, and at their best in a re-creation of the large pin-up boards on which she plotted the lavish book that accompanies the show. It reduces these often vivid portrayals to the size of their natural, magazine habitat and allows the viewer to skim for the good ones, as if turning pages. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

* SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'LUCIO FONTANA: VENICE/NEW YORK' If the Italian artist Lucio Fontana (1899-1968) was dazzled by Venice, he was positively awestruck by New York, which he first visited in 1961. For each city he created a group of works that he felt expressed its individual spirit. For Venice, a group of richly sensual oil paintings, with his signature slashes and punctures, sometimes with bits of colored glass scattered over them. For New York he chose shiny metal surfaces that he artfully cut, slashed and pierced to give a semblance of the city's wired energy and architectural vivacity. The two groups are united for the first time in this show, and well attended by works and photographs of works that trace from 1949 the career of an artist seeking to transcend the boundaries of his era. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org; closes on Sunday. (Glueck)

* THE MET: 'BRUSH AND INK: THE CHINESE ART OF WRITING' If painting and writing can be seen as modes of thinking, and they can, then this exhibition is as much a brainstorming session as an art exhibition, crackling with ideas and arguments every step of the way. It is also a sequence of moods, with impassioned voices calling out from the 80 scrolls and inscribed fans that line the galleries, which include colossal examples of contemporary 21st-century art that both depart from and preserve a tradition, (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org, closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'MERENGUE: VISUAL RHYTHMS' AND 'THIS SKIN I'M IN: CONTEMPORARY DOMINICAN ART FROM EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO'S PERMANENT COLLECTION,' Although ''Merengue,'' the larger of the two shows at El Museo, is made up almost entirely of paintings, it is about music, namely the national popular music of the Dominican Republic. Most of the 40 or so pictures, dating from the 1930s to the 1990s, document the music being performed or danced to; a few seem to be formal responses to its percussive beat. In a second, smaller show, merengue's vaunted joie de vivre gets some critical prodding from artists of Dominican descent living in New York. El Museo Del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'ALTERED, STITCHED AND GATHERED' Art by users might be the subtitle here, given that the show's 26 artists operate in the capacious gap between modernist assemblage and postmodern appropriation. Everything from e-mail messages to Wal-Mart plastic hangers and the movie ''Rambo'' are reused, often to comment on history, consumerism and war. Earlier efforts by Yoko Ono, Ben Vautier and Jaques Villegle provide background. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org, closes on Tuesday. (Smith)

* THE WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALBERS AND MOHOLY-NAGY: FROM THE BAUHAUS TO THE NEW WORLD' This vigorously multimedia show traces the trajectories of two Modernist pioneers who overlapped as teachers at the Bauhaus in the 1920s and went on, separately, to influence postwar art and design in the United States. Ranging through painting, sculpture, film, design, prints and commercial art, it clarifies the Bauhaus debt to Russian Constructivism and includes works that presage the ''specific objects'' of the 1960s. Given the peregrinations of young artists among multiple art media, the show could not be more pertinent. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A classical music entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Jan. 19 misstated the history of the performance in New York of ''Il Signor Bruschino,'' by Rossini, which the Gotham Chamber Orchestra is performing through Saturday. The Gotham Chamber Orchestra's production is the first professional staging of the work in New York since 1933, not the first staging since then. (The error was repeated in a Week Ahead entry in Arts & Leisure on Jan. 21, in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday and in a review of a performance on Saturday.)
A classical music entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Jan. 19 misstated the history of the performance in New York of ''Il Signor Bruschino,'' by Rossini, which is being performed in New York through Saturday. The current production is the first professional staging of the work in New York since 1933, not the first staging since then. (The error was repeated in a Week Ahead entry in Arts & Leisure on Jan. 21, in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday and in a review of a performance on Saturday.) A correction in this space on Tuesday misstated the name of the group that is currently presenting the work, at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side. It is the Gotham Chamber Opera, not Orchestra.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- ''Kiss the Prince'' by Jon Eric Riis is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's exhibition on the studio craft movement. Page 27. (Photo by Metropolitan Museum of Art)
DANCE -- Noism07 is performing in a Japanese dance showcase. Page 27. (Photo by Kishin Shinoyama)
 MOVIES -- Chartchai Ngamsan in ''Tears of the Black Tiger.'' Page 25. (Photo by Magnolia Pictures)(pg. E24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); FILM GENRES (77%); MUSIC (77%); FILM (77%); FAMILY (73%); WRITERS (65%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



381 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; SPARE TIMES JAN. 19 - JAN. 25; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2192 words

 BODY:

Around Town

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Through Aug. 19, ''Gold,'' with coins, jewelry and other artifacts. Sunday, 2 to 4 p.m., ''Living in America: The Gold Rush,'' the second of three events in conjunction with the ''Gold'' exhibition, featuring performances by the Tagish Nation Singers and Dancers and Paseo Taino: Travesia Taina, a Puerto Rican music ensemble; a screening of the film ''Keish: The Real Story of the Yukon Gold Rush''; and a lecture by Hans Koning, the author of a book about Christopher Columbus and his travels in pursuit of gold. 
Through Feb. 18, ''Yellowstone to Yukon,'' an exhibition of more than 40 photographs by 11 photographers documenting the animals, vegetation and geology of the regions affected by one of the world's largest wildlife conservation initiatives. Through May 28, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' a display with hundreds of butterflies in a re-creation of their natural habitat. In the Imax theater, ''Roving Mars,'' a film about NASA's Mars Rover. Timed tickets to ''Gold'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' which include museum admission, are $21; $16 for students and 60+; $12 for 12 and younger. Imax tickets, which include museum admission, are $21; $16 for students and 60+; $12 for children under 12. Suggested museum admission: $14; $10.50 for students and 60+; children, $8. Combination tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission and the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions''): $22; $16.50 for students and 60+; $13 for 12 and younger; under 2, free; admission that includes all activities: $30; $23 for students and 60+; $19 for 12 and younger. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (to 8:45 p.m. on Fridays). (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200; amnh.org.

HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9, the first in the Tavern Concert series, featuring the group String Fever; $15 ($12 for members); a lecture about tavern culture by Angelo T. Angelis, a history professor, will precede the concert at 6 p.m.; $5 ($4 for students and 62+). Through April 1, ''Out of Fire and Valor: Staten Island War Memorials,'' photographs by Cal Snyder, a Marine Corps veteran. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. $5; $4 for 62+; $3.50 for students and 5 to 17; free for children under 5 and members; (718) 351-1611.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Jan. 28, ''It's in the Bag,'' more than 100 purses from the museum's costume collection, some dating to the 18th century. Wednesday at 7 p.m., a panel discussion on the music of Harlem over the last 30 years with scholars, musicians, and arts and community activists, and a performance by the group TriHarLenium; $9; $5 for members, students and 62+. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12; $20 for families; free on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon. (212) 534-1672, mcny.org.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a talk with Peter Vallone Sr., author of ''Learning to Govern: My Life in New York Politics, From Hell Gate to City Hall''; $15; $10 for students, educators and 65+; $8 for members. Thursday at 6:30 p.m., a discussion with the author E. L. Doctorow; $18; $12 for students, educators and 65+; $10 for members. Through Sept. 3, ''New York Divided: Slavery and the Civil War,'' a display of historical documents, photographs, political cartoons and other items. Through July 1, ''Elegy in the Dust: Sep. 11 and the Chelsea Jeans Memorial,'' a glass-encased time capsule of items from that retail store at the time of the terrorist attacks of 9/11, along with photographs from the society's collection that document events that day. Through Feb. 25, ''Nature and the American Vision: The Hudson River School at the New-York Historical Society,'' an exhibition of 100 paintings and watercolors from the society's permanent collection, including works by Thomas Cole, Frederic Edwin Church and Jasper Francis Cropsey. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free for those under 12. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. Beginning tomorrow and running through Feb. 25, the 2007 Student and Teacher Art Exhibition and Sale, featuring artwork in all media. Tuesday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., the 11th Annual Plant-O-Rama, with unusual varieties for sale as well as lectures and panel discussions. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. $5; $3 for students and 65+; free for children under 16. Through Feb. 28, free admission Tuesdays through Fridays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon. (718) 623-7200; bbg.org.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance classical and contemporary works by the Children's Orchestra Society; $18; members, $15. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Free admission through February. (718) 549-3200.

Events

'FLOODWALL,' World Financial Center, Liberty Street Bridge, Lower Manhattan. An art installation reflective of post-Katrina New Orleans, by Jana Napoli. Daily, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. through Feb. 9. Free. (212) 945-0505; worldfinancialcenter.com.

'I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN,' Manhattan borough president's office, 1 Centre Street, 19th floor, Lower Manhattan. Through January, a photography display featuring works by members of the Pictorial Photographers of America. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free; photo ID required; ppa-photoclub.org.

'MAESTRO'S SECRET MUSIC; THE ARTWORK COLLECTED BY ARTURO TOSCANINI,' Avery Fisher Hall, Grand Promenade and First Tier, Lincoln Center. Commemorates the 50th anniversary of his death. Open to the public Thursdays, 2 to 6 p.m. and during concerts for Philharmonic ticket holders. Through March 31. (212) 875-5930.

SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM, 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan. Today, 5 to 9 p.m., ''Free Fridays!: Maritime Crafts & Skills,'' free admission to gallery exhibits and workshops. (212) 748-8600.

WATSON ADVENTURES Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''MoMA Mania Scavenger Hunt,'' through the galleries of the Museum of Modern Art. $38, including admission. Reservations and meeting place: (877) 946-4868.

MUSIC SCHOOL OPEN HOUSE, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m., classroom tours and demonstrations by faculty members. Free. (212) 415-5500.

THIRD ANNUAL BROOKLYN ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL, Kane Street Synagogue, 236 Kane Street, Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. Thursday night at 8, opening of the three-day festival with the documentary ''The Ashkenazi,'' followed by a post-screening discussion. $25 in advance for the series or $10 per screening at the door. (718) 875-1550.

'HOT OFF THE PRESS': PRINTS OF 2006 FROM NEW YORK PRINTSHOPS, Grolier Club of New York, 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan. An exhibition that illustrates the collaboration of 50 artists with master printers in the area. Through Feb. 3. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. (212) 838-6690.

'GREENBELT NATURALLY,' Arsenal Gallery, Central Park, 830 Fifth Avenue, at 64th Street. Today and Monday through Wednesday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., photographs of the Staten Island Greenbelt, taken by New York City schoolchildren.

Spoken Word

'MARIO CUOMO: A LOOK BACK AND A LOOK FORWARD,' 92nd Street Y, Poetry Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Sunday night at 7:30, a talk with the former governor. $25. (212) 415-5500.

'CONTEMPLATING THE BLACK DIASPORA,' Barnard College, Barnard Hall, Broadway and West 117th Street, Morningside Heights. Monday at 7 p.m., a discussion with Yvette Christianse, poet and author of ''Unconfessed,'' and Saidiya Hartman, a scholar and author. Free. (212) 854-9850.

SELECTED SHORTS: A CELEBRATION OF THE SHORT STORY, Symphony Space, Broadway and 95th Street. Wednesday night at 6:30, readings of stories from ''New Sudden Fiction,'' a new anthology, by the actors James Naughton, B. D. Wong and Marian Seldes; the host will be Isaiah Sheffer, artistic director of Symphony Space. $21 to $30. (212) 864-5400.

'HIDDEN CHILD; AN EVENING WITH EVI BLAIKIE,' Hungarian Cultural Center, 447 Broadway, at Grand Street, SoHo. Thursday at 7 p.m., a discussion with Ms. Blaikie, author of ''Magda's Daughter: A Hidden Child's Journey Home,'' who escaped Nazi-occupied Paris as a child and spent her childhood in exile in Hungary. Free. (212) 750-4450.

'FREEDOMLAND -- BEFORE CO-OP CITY, THE GRAND AMUSEMENT PARK IN THE BRONX,' Bartow-Pell Mansion, 895 Shore Road, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx. Sunday at 4 p.m., a lecture by Thomas X. Casey, a collector of vintage postcards. Suggested donation, $8. Pre-registration requested, (718) 885-1461; bartowpellmansionmuseum.org.

'KEEP THE ARTS IN WILLIAMSBURG,' Galapagos Art Space, 70 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Tonight at 7, a symposium on the economic development and displacement of artists in the area with artists, arts administrators and elected officials; dance and comedy performances will follow. Free. galapagosartspace.com.

INSTITUTE OF CLASSICAL ARCHITECTURE & CLASSICAL AMERICA, 20 West 44th Street. Thursday at 7 p.m., a panel discussion about the architectural firm Carrere and Hastings, with the authors Mark Alan Hewitt, Kate Lemos, William Morrison and Charles D. Warren, who have written a two-volume set about the noted partnership. Also sponsored by the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen. $10; free for members of the Institute and Society. Reservations: (212) 730-9646, Ext. 109.

Walking Tours

OUTDOORS CLUB Tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., an 11-mile walk along the beach and boardwalk in Queens, from 116th Street and Rockaway Park to Fort Tilden and Breezy Point; meeting place is at the token booth of the Rockaway Park/Beach 116th Street stop on the A train. (Participants should take the Rockaway Park shuttle train from the Broad Channel stop.) $3. (212) 242-5384.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Tomorrow at 11 a.m., a free tour of waterfront development in Lower Manhattan, meeting at the top of the stairs in the Winter Garden at the World Financial Center. (212) 935-3960.

'BETWEEN THE LIONS: THEN & NOW,' Sunday at 11 a.m., a historical look at the main branch of New York Public Library and the land on which it was built, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and 41st Street. Sponsored by Bonnie's Lost New York Walks and Talks. $15. (212) 594-8039.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''SoHo and NoLIta,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Spring and Lafayette Streets. $15 each; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members. (212) 439-1090.

SHOREWALKERS Sunday at 11 a.m., a three-to-four mile walk from the World Trade Center to Brooklyn Heights via the Brooklyn Bridge, meeting in the lobby of the Millennium Hilton Hotel in Lower Manhattan. $3. (932) 724-2542. $3.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Dandies, Dudes and Shady Ladies'' visits lowlife haunts of old New York, for adults; meeting at the subway kiosk at Astor Place in the East Village. $10. (212) 969-8262. $10. (212) 969-8262.

TIMELINE TOURING: 'A LIVING HISTORY TOUR OF THE LOWER EAST SIDE,' Sunday at 1:15 p.m. $38; $32 for children. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 209-3370 or timelinetouring.com.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., ''Marilyn Monroe's Manhattan,'' stopping by her favorite nightclub and a movie location, meeting on the northeast corner of 57th Street and First Avenue. $5. (212) 265-2663.

'MANSIONS, MILLIONS AND MAGNIFICENCE,' Sunday at 1 p.m., a walking tour of Fifth Avenue, meeting at the statue of General Sherman, Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. $15; (732) 270-5559.

HARLEM, YOUR WAY! Sunday at 10:15 a.m., ''Experience the Beauty of Harlem Gospel'' combines a historical walk through the neighborhood with a stop at an art gallery and a gospel church service, meeting at 129 West 130th Street. $25. An optional meal follows. (212) 690-1687.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Let the Games Begin: History of Sports in the Park,'' meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., a ''Cross-Park Promenade'' meets at the statue of Samuel F. B. Morse, at Fifth Avenue and 72nd Street. centralparknyc.org.

METRO TOUR SERVICE Today and tomorrow at 2 p.m., Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. Sunday at 3 p.m., a gospel tour. Both meet in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. $25. (718) 789-0430.

Recreation

NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB Sunday at 8:30 a.m., the Half-Marathon Grand Prix, a 13.1-mile run, in Central Park, beginning on the East Drive and 84th Street. Advance registration: $25; $17 for members; $13 for members 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $35; $25 for members; $15 for members 18 and younger and 62+. (212) 860-4455; nyrrc.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (87%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); WRITERS (75%); WILDLIFE (73%); DANCERS (71%); SPACE EXPLORATION (71%); DANCE (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (67%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MARS (87%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



382 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: A Producer for All Seasons (Also Juggles)

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
A HUNGRY producer shivering in the snow outside a theater, handing out flyers to his latest event, is a far less glamorous image than that of a flamboyant impresario, flanked by chorus girls, holding court in a cloud of cigar smoke. But on many nights, rain or shine, outside a Broadway theater is where you'll find Scott Siegel, a producer, writer, critic and aspiring show business entrepreneur, leafleting one of four events he puts on each year at Town Hall. 
 On Jan. 29 one of his most ambitious enterprises, the 2007 Nightlife Awards, an annual show honoring the best in local cabaret, comedy and jazz (in clubs, not concert halls) will be held there. These still little-known awards, now in their third year, bring together one of the strongest lineups of local nightclub talent to gather in one room. As Mr. Siegel observed recently, ''One-night events don't get press coverage, which makes it hard to sell 1,500 seats.'' 
 Diminutive, soft-spoken and unfailingly polite, Mr. Siegel, wearing his signature bolo tie, is the quintessential scuffling, do-it-yourself-on-a shoestring producer working just below New York's pop-culture radar. He is often joined on the sidewalk by his wife and collaborator, Barbara, with whom he writes theater and cabaret columns and reviews for two Web sites: theatermania.com and talkinbroadway.com.
 An ebullient woman aswirl in colorful layers of bargain-basement clothes and zany hats, Barbara Siegel also happens to be chairwoman of the Drama Desk nominating committee. Both are voting members of the Drama Desk, Outer Critics Circle and Broadcast Film Critics Association. Watching them schmooze from table to table at cabaret openings, you might be tempted to dismiss the Siegels as eccentric hangers-on or freeloaders, and some people in cabaret circles do. But that would be a mistake. 
 Married for more than two decades, the couple, who met when Ms. Siegel was deputy director of the New York City Urban Corps, a local version of the Peace Corps, can usually be seen on the town seven nights a week at the theater and in nightclubs. Often they attend as many as three events a day.
 What distinguishes the Nightlife Awards is that the winners, chosen by New York critics and announced in advance, don't give acceptance speeches; they perform. At last year's event, Brian Stokes Mitchell, chosen outstanding cabaret male vocalist in a major engagement, brought down the house singing an un-amplified ''This Nearly Was Mine.'' 
 This year John Pizzarelli, the pop-jazz crooner, guitarist and wit, was voted outstanding cabaret male vocalist (for an engagement at Feinstein's at the Regency), and his wife, Jessica Molaskey, with whom he often performs, was voted best female vocalist in a major engagement (at the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel). Although each is an exceptional talent, in tandem, the ''Nick and Nora of cabaret,'' as they have been called, are a powerhouse jazz and musical-comedy duo whose sophisticated repartee is mercifully free of nagging married-couples shtick. 
 Christine Ebersole, currently starring in ''Grey Gardens,'' and the pianist and arranger Billy Stritch were chosen outstanding cabaret performance by a duo in a major engagement (at the Metropolitan Room at Gotham). In her cabaret shows Ms. Ebersole is as charismatic as she is in the musical, which earned her rave reviews.
 Freddy Cole and Paula West were chosen best male and female jazz vocalists, and a lifetime achievement award will be given to the pop-jazz coloratura Maureen McGovern. In jazz, the keyboardist Cedar Walton was chosen best jazz soloist, and Ben Riley's Monk Legacy Band best jazz combo. 
 Demetri Martin and Sarah Silverman won for stand-up comedy. Five other awards also recognize performances in smaller cabarets, including piano bars. Most of these performers have signed on to appear at the awards show. 
 Asked if he had thought of adding a rock category to the awards, Mr. Siegel said he was leery because it might alienate the show's core Broadway and cabaret audience, but he allowed that additional rock and world-music categories might help the awards gain television exposure and possibly live coverage. 
 The embrace of television would be a major breakthrough for a producer whose events are characterized by a rare combination of quality and economy. ''Today's equivalent of 'The Ed Sullivan Show' without the spinning plates,'' is how Mr. Siegel, who is an unabashed show business nostalgist, describes the Nightlife Awards.
 The best known of his projects, which he produces with Town Hall, is Broadway by the Year, his efficient, low-budget answer to City Center's Encores Series. Each of its four annual concerts is an anthology of theater songs, famous and obscure, from a particular Broadway musical season, performed by Broadway stars like Marc Kudisch, Nancy Anderson and Brent Barrett. 
 Mr. Siegel, who writes the amusing historical commentary, serves as its affable, low-key M.C. Typical of his remarks, on the year 1930: ''The night 'Girl Crazy' opened, George Gershwin reportedly told Ethel Merman, 'Never but never go near a singing teacher.' She had stopped the show as she would every night holding the 'I' in 'I Got Rhythm' for 16 measures. There were those who said she could hold a note longer than Chase Manhattan.'' This season, which begins Feb. 26, will look back to 1928, and later in the year, 1938, 1959 and 1964. 
 ''Barbara and I see these extraordinarily talented people who don't usually get the opportunity to show the range of what they can do for a large audience,'' he said. ''And because you can't get this music on the radio anymore, the options for hearing it are also limited.'' 
 When he presented the idea of Broadway by the Year to Town Hall, he was asked to produce it for them. ''I warned them that I'd never produced anything in my life,'' he said. ''Not even a puppet show in my parents' backyard.'' 
 Since its 2002 inception after two successful trial concerts the previous years, the series now has 900 subscribers. It has had 22 concerts, covering scores composed between 1925 and 1978. It has expanded to include dance numbers, and its backup ensemble, the Ross Patterson Little Big Band, has grown from three to five musicians. It has generated 14 CDs, including two of Broadway Unplugged, a popular annual spinoff initiated in 2004 in which singers perform without a microphone. 
 Two years ago Mr. Siegel and Town Hall thought up the Broadway Cabaret Festival to help fill the hole created when the long-running Cabaret Convention, produced by the Mabel Mercer Foundation, moved from Town Hall to Frederick P. Rose Hall at Jazz at Lincoln Center. 
 Held over three days in October, it consists of three distinct parts. The first night is a tribute to a Broadway composer. The second focuses on younger Broadway performers. (Last October's show reunited Emily Skinner and Alice Ripley from ''Side Show.'') ''Broadway Originals'' on Sunday is a gala at which performers reprise signature songs they introduced onstage years earlier.
 Before he turned producer, Mr. Siegel, who was born in the Bronx (as was his wife), grew up in Fair Lawn, N.J., and attended Rutgers and the University of Iowa, was a writer of pulp westerns, which he used to turn out at the rate of one every two or three months. Thirty-six of the 47 books he has published were collaborations, the most ambitious being the 400,000-word Encyclopedia of Hollywood, published in 1989 by Facts on File and revised and reissued two years ago.
 The encyclopedia led Mr. Siegel into movie reviewing, and he did telephone reviews for a syndicated network of radio stations that at one time numbered nearly 100. At the same time he was working as a senior editor for a publishing house. When he quit his job, he became a literary agent for several of its clients, including the best-selling fantasy novelist R. A. Salvatore, whom he still represents. His relationship with Town Hall began a decade ago when he became co-host of a film seminar series that he continues to lead. 
 How does he do it all?
 ''I spent my junior year of college learning to juggle instead of studying,'' he said. ''And I'm still juggling.''
 He is not the least embarrassed about standing in the cold, night after night, handing out leaflets. 
 ''People constantly say they can't believe I'm flyering,'' he said. ''My usual response is that it's a grass-roots organization, and I'm a blade of grass.'' 

Read This Flyer
Here is information about the events mentioned in this article. All take place at Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan. Information: (212) 840-2824.
 The 2007 Nightlife Awards will be on Jan. 29 at 7 p.m. (tickets, $25 and $75). 
 ''The Broadway Musicals of 1928,'' on Feb. 26 at 8 p.m., is the first of four concerts in the Broadway by the Year series; others, devoted to the musicals of 1938, 1959 and 1964, will be on March 26, April 30 and June 18 (tickets, $40, $45 and $50). 
 The Broadway Cabaret Festival will be held on Oct. 19-21, and Broadway Unplugged in November; ticket prices are not yet available.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sidewalk impresario: the producer Scott Siegel outside Town Hall. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Scott Siegel at Town Hall, setting for the 2007 Nightlife Awards. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. E19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WOMEN (77%); MUSIC (74%); FILM (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (71%); THEATER (58%) Music; Reviews; Nightlife Awards; Comedy and Humor; Awards, Decorations and Honors

PERSON: Stephen Holden; Scott Siegel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



383 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Economy Seems to Be Holding Its Own, but Inflation Risk Persists

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The economy seems to be shaking off a slowdown brought on by the precipitous drop in housing, the latest economic data suggested yesterday.
 More new home construction was started in December than in November, the Census Bureau reported, and the Consumer Price Index, the nation's best-known inflation gauge, rose at its fastest pace in eight months -- on the surface, at least, an indication of robust demand. Fine print in the reports, however, signaled that the five-year-old recovery is far from being on solid ground.
''The economy is performing significantly better than many economists had expected as recently as a month ago,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist for the Investment Strategies Group at Bank of America. ''But the housing downturn and cutbacks in auto production are still likely to hamper growth.'' 
 The housing starts came in at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.6 million units, up 4.5 percent from the November rate. The number of building permits issued last month also rose, suggesting that prices may have fallen enough to draw people back into the market.
 Nevertheless, the increase in construction starts was entirely in apartment buildings. Builders started fewer single-family homes in December than in November. And compared with a year ago, permits and construction for any type of housing were down about 25 percent.
 ''Very simply, the benchmark single-family sector is very weak,'' Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, wrote to his clients.
 The inflation numbers were also ambiguous. The 0.5 percent increase in December came after no increase in November, and sharp drops in September and October.
 Not since the 0.6 percent rise in April, has the Consumer Price Index jumped so sharply in one month -- suggesting to Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, that inflation is far from subdued, as the Federal Reserve would like.
 ''All this talk about the Fed lowering rates is looking increasingly unlikely,'' Mr. Baumohl said, ''and the possibility is growing that the Fed will have to raise rates in the second half of this year.'' Like many economists, Mr. Baumohl focuses mainly on the so-called core inflation rate, which measures price changes other than those for food and energy. 
 The core rate rose 0.2 percent in December, matching the increase in four of the last six months. It appears to be leveling off, he said, at an annual rate of 2.6 percent, which was the year-over-year increase reported yesterday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 If so, that would be well above the 1 to 2 percent annual rate that Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman, describes as acceptable.
 Patrick Jackman, an economist at the bureau, argued that home rents are playing a big role in the core rate's steady increase to 2.6 percent last year from 2.2 percent in 2004 and 2005. The bureau measures housing costs not by the purchase price of a house, but by rents and by what it describes as the rental equivalent of owning a home. 
 Indeed, more people are seeking to rent homes, driving up rental prices. Compounding the impact on inflation, no other item counts as heavily as rents in the bureau's monthly calculation of changes in the Consumer Price Index. 
 Most of the 0.2 percent increase in the core inflation rate last month came from rising rents, the bureau reported. Meanwhile, the cost of many other major items -- recreation, for example, education and health care -- rose only mildly or not at all. Car prices fell.
 The two exceptions were apparel and tobacco prices, the former going up because of an anomaly in the seasonal adjustment formula the bureau uses for the Christmas season, and the latter because wholesalers raised prices last month. 
 ''If I were on the Fed, I would say there is really no inflationary pressure in the broad economy,'' Mr. Jackman said.
 The 0.5 percent increase in the overall inflation rate last month came mainly from a spike in fuel costs. After falling from August until early November, fuel prices rose until late December -- and then started to fall again.
 Absent the spike in gas prices, the overall price index would have risen by about 1.25 percent last month. Oil prices in 2006 rose much more slowly than in 2005. As a result, the rise of 2.5 percent in the overall price index last year was well below the 3.4 percent increase in 2005. 
 ''Inflation does seem to be subsiding,'' Ms. Reaser said, ''and I think that will continue partly because the Fed's earlier rate increases are still putting a lid on economic growth.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Seasonally adjusted housing starts were up 4.5 percent last month from the November rate, but the increase was attributed to apartment buildings, not single-family homes. Continued weakness in housing is expected. (Photo by Ross D. Franklin/Associated Press)Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.Graph shows consumer prices for 2006.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for December, except as noted.U.S.MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.5New YorkMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +3.3Los AngelesMONTH: -0.2YEAR: +3.3ChicagoMONTH: -0.1YEAR: +0.7Boston*(Nov.)MONTH: -0.6YEAR: +2.1Dallas*(Nov.)MONTH: -1.9YEAR: +0.3Detroit*MONTH: -1.0YEAR: +2.1Houston*MONTH: -0.7YEAR: +1.1Philadelphia*MONTH: Unch.YEAR: +3.3San Francisco*MONTH: -0.3YEAR: +3.4Washington*(Nov.)MONTH: -0.7YEAR: +3.1(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CENSUS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (54%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Housing; Building (Construction); United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Census Bureau

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



384 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: A Coalition For Firm Limit On Emissions

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Ten major companies with operations across the economy -- utilities, manufacturing, petroleum, chemicals and financial services -- have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a firm nationwide limit on carbon dioxide emissions that would lead to reductions of 10 to 30 percent over the next 15 years.
 Introduction of this group, which includes industry giants like General Electric, DuPont and Alcoa, is aimed at adding to the recent impetus for Congressional action on emissions controls and the creation of a market in which allowances to emit carbon dioxide could be traded in a way that achieves the greatest reduction at the lowest cost. 
The diversity of the coalition -- some members had already come out for other forms of emissions control, like a carbon tax or voluntary controls, but others had been silent on climate-change issues until now -- could send a strong signal that businesses want to get ahead of the increasing political momentum for federal emissions controls, in part to ensure that their long-term interests are protected.
 Many energy producers and manufacturers have expressed concern that various state efforts, if not coordinated, could lead to a scattershot system of regulation. Others worry that harsher measures, like a stiff tax on fossil fuels, the biggest contributor to global-warming gases, could be imposed if they do not reach a consensus on a legislative approach. 
 The group's formal announcement is scheduled for Monday, the day before President Bush is to deliver his State of the Union address and offer the administration's newest basket of proposals to promote energy security and combat global warming. 
 Aside from General Electric and Alcoa, Caterpillar is the leading manufacturing company among the group, which also includes four utilities -- Duke Energy, based in North Carolina; PG&E of California; the FPL Group of Florida; and PNM Resources of New Mexico. The group counts the multinational oil company BP and Lehman Brothers as members as well.
 Jonathan Lash, the president of the World Resources Institute, said Thursday that ''this signals that the differences in the interests between these sectors and within these sectors can be resolved.''
 Peter A. Darbee, chief executive of PG&E, said, ''My hope and expectation is that Congress, the White House and the public will look at these chief executives'' and note that companies with a motive to oppose emissions controls are nonetheless saying, ''Here's a serious problem; it needs to be dealt with, and it needs to be dealt with now.''
 The negotiations, conducted primarily by the chief executives of the companies, did not produce a model piece of legislation, but rather a detailed set of principles that they suggest as a guide to any legislation. In the Senate, there are already four Democratic proposals for limiting carbon emissions and creating a market-based system, under which the government gives or sells permits to businesses, allowing them a certain level of emissions. 
 Once established, such a system would allow better-performing companies to sell or trade unneeded credits, and all companies involved would be able to determine whether it would be more efficient for them to clean up their own emissions or buy credits from others. 
 The group's principles include recommending a range of emissions levels -- from 100 to 105 percent of current levels within five years, then down to 90 to 100 percent of current levels in 10 years, and 70 to 90 percent of current levels in 15 years. In addition, the chief executives agreed after some discussion, to ''strongly discourage further construction of stationary sources that cannot easily capture'' carbon dioxide.
 This comes close to a rejection of almost all new coal-fired power plants on the drawing boards, including the 11 plants recently proposed by TXU, a Texas utility. The technology that would isolate carbon dioxide emissions and bury them is still in the earliest phases of development, so this near-repudiation of existing coal technology would have a disproportionate impact on utilities that depend largely on coal, like TXU and the Southern Company.
 But Jeff Sterba, the chief executive of PNM Resources, whose company gets about two-thirds of its power from coal and is a member of the coalition, explained why he supports such an approach. ''The most important thing for us is to have a viable, diverse portfolio of resources, and coal has got to be part of that mix,'' he said. ''Today, the biggest problem coal has is uncertainty about carbon.''
 The group, called the United States Climate Action Partnership, had its origin in conversations last spring among Mr. Lash; Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense; and Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric. Mr. Lash had worked with Mr. Immelt on the rollout of GE's Ecomagination program in 2005 -- which combined pledges of emissions reductions with a new emphasis on energy-efficient and climate-friendly technologies.
 Mr. Sterba and the leaders of the other environmental groups, which also includes Frances Beinecke of the Natural Resources Defense Council and Eileen Claussen of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, said that an efficient, flexible cap-and-trade system would stimulate the development of new technologies to cut energy use and provide renewable energy.
 General Electric claims significant advances in these areas already. According to Peter O'Toole, a company spokesman, ''Revenues from the sale of energy-efficient and environmentally advanced products and services hit $10 billion in 2005,'' up from $6.2 billion in 2004.
 The chief executives in the group met for the first time in July. During the meeting, Mr. Krupp said, ''it became clear that cap-and-trade is an element of the deal that is good for everybody.''
 ''It's good for the environmental community,'' he said, ''because a hard cap guarantees the integrity of the environment'' and ''industry likes it because it's so efficient.''
 Timing also played a role in the executives' thinking. As Mr. Darbee said, ''We have the opportunity to construct something more pragmatic and realistic while President Bush is in office.'' A future political climate, after 2008, he said, might produce ''solutions less sensitive to the needs of business.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day last Friday about recommendations by industry and environmental groups on how to limit greenhouse emission misstated a goal of the coalition. The group wants to cut greenhouse emissions to 20 to 40 percent of current levels by 2050, not 60 to 80 percent of current levels.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey R. Immelt, right, General Electric's chief, with Jonathan Lash of the World Resources Institute at an environment-linked briefing in 2005. (Photo by Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg News)(pg. C9)Chart: ''A New Alliance in the Climate Debate''Ten major companies have joined with four environmental groups to ask Congress for legislation to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Here are the companies and groups and some of their major recommendations.MembershipAlcoaBPCaterpillarDuke EnergyDuPontFPL GroupGeneral ElectricLehman BrothersPG&EPNM ResourcesEnvironmental DefenseNatural Resources DefenseCouncilPew Center on Global ClimateChangeWorld Resources InstituteLegislative GoalsCreate mandatory approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the major emitting sources in the economy, phased in over timeUse flexible approaches to effectively set a price for emission of greenhouse gases, depending on the sector.Use approaches that create incentives and encourage actions by other countries, including large developing countries like China and India.Greenhouse Gas Emissions100 to 105 percent of current levels within 5 years.90 to 100 percent of current levels within 10 years.70 to 90 percent of current levels within 15 years.60 to 80 percent of current levels by 2050.The ultimate goal is a level of emission that will allow global greenhouse gas concentrations to stabilize over the long term at 450 to 550 parts per million.(Source by United States Climate Action Partnership)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%) Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Factories and Industrial Plants; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Financial Services Industry; Chemicals; Air Pollution

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ALCOA INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%); PNM RESOURCES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%) General Electric Co; Dupont Co; Alcoa Inc

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (85%); PCG (NYSE) (85%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (53%); PNM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); PETER A DARBEE (50%) Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



385 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 868 words

 BODY:

INDUSTRY CALL TO LIMIT EMISSIONS -- Ten major companies with operations across the economy have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a firm nationwide cap on carbon dioxide emissions that would lead to reductions of 10 to 30 percent over the next 15 years. [Page C1.] 


OUTSIZE PERSONALITY AND AMBITION -- College dropout, stock market aficionado, motorcycle enthusiast and, on occasion, an uninhibited dancer to hip-hop music, Jonathan G. Ornstein, left, the chief executive of the Mesa Air Group, is a throwback to an era when airlines tended to resemble the personalities of their chief executives. And if his personality is outsize, so are Mesa's ambitions. He wants to make the regional airline global. [C1.]

FED WARNING ON DEFICITS -- Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that recent positive trends on the federal budget were a ''calm before the storm'' masking a long-term danger posed by looming deficits in Social Security and Medicare. [C1.]

HOUSE PASSES OIL ROYALTIES BILL -- House Democrats easily passed legislation that would rescind $14 billion in tax breaks and subsidies for oil drillers and reserve the money to develop alternative energy projects and conservation technologies. [C1.]

BETTING ON THE FARM -- Wall Street commodity funds that have been investing heavily in energy futures are now loading up on agricultural commodities like corn and livestock futures, raising concerns among grain traders and producers that speculative money is gaining an undue influence over their markets. [C1.]

SEAT RATINGS RETRACTED -- Consumer Reports magazine retracted an article on infant car seats that said most of them had failed side-impact crash tests. [A16.]

HELP FOR THE UNINSURED -- A broad coalition of business and consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and drug companies laid out a major proposal to provide health insurance coverage to more than half of the 47 million uninsured Americans by expanding federal benefit programs and offering new federal tax credits to individuals and families. [A21.]

I.B.M. EDGES PAST ESTIMATES -- I.B.M. reported quarterly profit and revenue that slightly surpassed Wall Street estimates, lifted by strong software sales and a solid performance from its big services unit. [C4.]

ECONOMY HOLDING ITS OWN -- The American economy seems to be shaking off a slowdown brought on by the precipitous drop in housing, the latest data suggested. [C4.]

TIME INC. CUTTING 300 JOBS -- Time Inc. announced that it would cut nearly 300 employees at its top magazines, including its most profitable one, People, as it moves to invest more in its Web sites. [C4.]

NO MORE COMPANY JET -- Mark Fields, president of the Americas region for the Ford Motor Company, said that he would give up the use of the company's private jets for his weekend trips home to visit his family in Florida and would fly commercial instead. [C4.]

MERRILL'S NET UP 68 PERCENT -- Merrill Lynch, the nation's largest brokerage house, capped a record earnings season for the major brokers by announcing a 68 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit. [C4.]

LAW FIRMS PRESSED ON RETIREMENT -- A special committee of the New York State Bar Association is calling on law firms to end the practice of mandatory retirement for partners. [C6.]

MAKEUP FOR THE YOUTH SET -- Cosmetics companies like Clinique, Avon and Lancome are placing a new emphasis on their advertising campaigns aimed at younger customers. Advertising. [C8.]

INSURER TO BUY ALL OF FRENCH UNIT -- Allianz, the European insurer, announced that it would buy out the minority shareholders of its French subsidiary AGF for $12.6 billion, another step in a drive by its chief executive, Michael Diekmann, to reduce the complexity of the company. [C9.]

OIL AND TECH DRAG DOWN SHARES -- Stocks fell for a second day, buffeted by declining oil prices that sent energy shares down and technology company sales forecasts that fell below analysts' estimates. [C11.]

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

Continental Airlines said that it narrowed its fourth-quarter loss by 40 percent as it flew more passengers and increased fares. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Harley-Davidson said that strong international sales of its motorcycles helped drive its fourth-quarter profit up 9.7 percent, a touch above Wall Street expectations, but sales in the United States were flat. (AP)

The bidding for ElkCorp, the roofing products maker, heated up, with the Building Materials Corporation of America raising its bid to $865.2 million, topping a $834 million offer by a private equity firm, the Carlyle Group. (REUTERS)

The Bank of New York, one of the nation's largest trust banks, reported an increase in fourth-quarter earnings on strength in its corporate trust business, depositary receipts and global custody services. (AP)

The Coca-Cola Company said that its marketing chief, Mary E. Minnick, would leave, a month after the company promoted its international chief, Muhtar Kent, to chief operating officer. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

The General Electric Company reached an agreement to buy part of the diagnostic-equipment unit of Abbott Laboratories for $8.13 billion to expand its line of testing devices. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Allianz A.D.R. shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DANCERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MEDICARE (73%); BABY PRODUCTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); ROYALTIES (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (69%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (59%); RAP MUSIC (56%); CHILD CAR SEATS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); TIME INC (83%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



386 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: After Inquiries, Ford Official Decides to Skip Company Jet 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 18 

 BODY:
It's goodbye Gulfstream, hello Airbus for Mark Fields at the Ford Motor Company.
 Mr. Fields said Thursday that he would give up the use of the company's private jets for his weekend trips home to visit his family in Florida. Instead, Mr. Fields, who is president of the Americas region for the auto company, will fly commercial. 
His decision was announced to employees via Ford's internal Web site, said a Ford spokesman, Oscar Suris. ''He doesn't want any distractions for the team, so he made the decision on his own to forgo this,'' Mr. Suris said.
 The action comes amid media scrutiny over his flights, a common perk among executives but an expense that raised eyebrows because of billions of dollars in losses last year at Ford. 
 Mr. Fields is the architect of a turnaround plan, the Way Forward, that calls for the elimination of 44,000 jobs through 2008, along with a series of plant closings. Ford does not expect to be profitable in North America until 2009.
 Mr. Fields, who has told employees that they had to be prepared to share in sacrifices at the auto company, became president in October 2005. His employment agreement, which included a $1 million bonus, entitled him to use the company jets for personal trips.
 He has primarily traveled to visit his family in Delray Beach, Fla., where they settled when Mr. Fields returned to the United States from his previous job running Ford's luxury car operations in Europe. At the time, Mr. Fields said he did not want his children to be in the spotlight.
 But his family's location has led to some comments in Detroit, where wives of senior executives often play important roles in local charities and civic events. Mr. Suris said Ford supported the family's decision not to move.
 Documents showed the flights by Mr. Fields cost the company nearly $215,000 during the final three months of 2005, or the equivalent of about $15,000 a weekend round-trip flight to West Palm Beach, an airport near his Florida home. Figures for 2006 were not available.
 In November, a local television station, WXYZ-TV, ran a three-part series about travel by executives that featured Mr. Fields. Since then, Mr. Fields has received e-mail messages from employees questioning the practice, Mr. Suris said.
 Ford will pay for the cost of commercial air travel for Mr. Fields, he added. That should generate significant savings for Ford: a round-trip coach seat on Northwest Airlines from Detroit to West Palm Beach next weekend was quoted at $449.50, according to the airline's Web site. A first-class ticket cost $1,138.
 Mr. Fields could save even more by flying Spirit Airlines, a low-fare carrier that also offers nonstop flights to West Palm Beach. A round-trip economy-class ticket for next weekend was quoted at $223, according to the airline's Web site. But business-class seats were already sold out.
 Both airlines operate Airbus jets on the route.
 Ford's new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, recently moved here from Seattle, where he ran the commercial airplane division of the Boeing Company. His wife, Jane, has visited the area on house-hunting trips and is expected to move soon, Mr. Suris said.
 Mr. Mulally is required by Ford directors to use the company's planes, Mr. Suris said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Fields, president of the Americas region for Ford, visits his family in Delray Beach, Fla., each weekend. From now on, he intends to fly a commercial airline instead of using the company jet. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); AIR FARES (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); CHARITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CLOSINGS (67%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



387 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE: V.C. NATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A Light Bulb Goes On, and China Starts Thinking 'Alternative Energy'

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
ON the vanguard of venture capital, the buzzwords of late have been ''alternative energy'' and ''China.'' Are the two worlds about to collide?
 Seed investors are financing, or considering financing, start-ups in China that are developing equipment for wind and solar power, clean water and food alternatives and technology to promote energy efficiency.
While this may seem to be an arbitrary combination of two of the hottest trends in venture capital -- sort of like the first person who mixed peanut butter and chocolate -- there is a growing number of investors who believe that the potential reward in China is worth the tremendous risk. 
 China has voracious energy needs and ''the most serious environmental problem in the world,'' said Jerry Li, a consultant in Beijing who matches venture capitalists with entrepreneurs. ''There is a huge demand for investment'' in alternative solutions, he said.
 Mr. Li is the first director of Cleantech China, a joint venture beginning this month between Tsinghua University in Beijing and the Cleantech Venture Network, a blossoming North American trade and research group for venture capitalists investing in alternative energy technology.
 While independent hard data on alternative energy investments in China is hard to come by, Mr. Li's joint venture, aimed at marrying overseas investors and Chinese entrepreneurs, testifies to the emerging trend. From June 2005 to June 2006, American venture capitalists put $100 million into China-based start-ups focused on alternative energy, double the investment in the period a year earlier, Cleantech China said. 
 But the challenges are immense. For one, China has a hard-driving, fossil-fuel-centered economy that has so far done little to diminish its reliance on those fuels. 
 And venture capitalists have still not entirely figured out how to manage investments from such a distance, and across cultures, and, pointedly, how to get their money out once they've built the start-ups into viable companies. John Rockwell, a managing director at DFJ Element, a Silicon Valley venture firm, was not deterred. In March 2006, DFJ invested $2 million in Miartech, a 34-person Shanghai start-up that makes technology to send data over power lines, automate meter reading and make the distribution system more efficient.
 Mr. Rockwell liked the technology and, also, the cost of doing business: the company, thanks to lower payroll and other costs, uses less than $100,000 a month, a fifth of what Mr. Rockwell said it might in the United States.
 He has been to China twice since August and plans three trips this year, partly in hopes of finding new ventures that address the country's voracious need for energy.
 ''They're going to require a greater increase in electricity than anywhere else,'' Mr. Rockwell said.
 He said that China was already beginning to look more intensely at renewable sources, like wind, hydro and solar. ''It's going to create a lot of opportunities.''
 John Denniston, a partner at Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers, said he heard a similar message when he met with a high-ranking official in the Ministry of Science and Technology.
 The deputy minister told him that ''one of their highest goals is to find alternative energy sources that decrease their dependence on oil,'' Mr. Denniston said. And he said that in conversations with other officials, entrepreneurs and scientists, ''everyone was on the same playbook.''
 Mr. Denniston has not made any investments yet, but is interested in exploring opportunities. He said he was curious to see if China, because of its high demand for energy, could leapfrog some other countries and become a leader in alternative solutions, like being the first to mandate all-electric vehicles.
 Mr. Rockwell agrees that China has a chance to define itself early-on as promoting alternatives to oil: ''When you don't have an established grid, a lot of renewables look more attractive.''
 A perhaps more basic issue that investors say is challenging China is the simple demand for enough potable water and clean food -- industries that fall under the loose and broad definition of ''cleantech.'' 
 Mr. Li said that within six months, he expected to have a database of some 300 Chinese start-ups seeking investment partners. One of them will be a company called Ruikang, based in Jiangsu Province, near Shanghai, that handles organic tea, honey and Chinese traditional medicines.
 Another start-up that he said was seeking investors is Shenwu, based in Beijing, which makes equipment to capture heat from a heating unit and redirect it for other uses.
 Mr. Li said the big challenge facing American venture capitalists is not so much finding viable technology as it is finding capable managers.
 Chinese entrepreneurs can ''have a different speed and rhythm -- everything is different because of the cultural background.'' He insisted, though, that the situation is changing, thanks to exposure to international businesspeople and intensifying market demand.
 ''Things are changing, not just because the government is hungry for this,'' he said of the demand for alternative energy. ''The whole country is hungry for this.''
 Whether the chocolate and peanut butter provided by venture capitalists can help remains to be seen.


GRAPHIC: Photo: China has voracious energy needs and ''the most serious environmental problem in the world,'' said Jerry Li, a consultant in Beijing, shown in Toronto. (Photo by Jim Ross for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); STARTUPS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (58%) Energy and Power; Wind; Solar Energy; Energy Efficiency; Foreign Investments

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



388 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Technology Sales Forecasts

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell for the second consecutive day, buffeted by declining oil prices that sent energy shares down and by sales forecasts from technology companies that fell below analysts' estimates.
 The Nasdaq composite index recorded its biggest retreat in seven weeks when Apple Inc., maker of iPod music players and Macintosh computers, tumbled after saying sales would trail projections. Applied Materials, the biggest manufacturer of equipment for semiconductor factories, dropped on concern that demand for chips would slow.
Computer-related companies, whose earnings are forecast to grow faster than any other industry this year, declined for a third day after Apple joined Intel and Motorola in missing estimates this month. Technology shares had been the best performers in 2007 before yesterday. 
 ''There's no appetite for misses out there,'' said Peter Goldman, who helps manage about $700 million at Chicago Asset Management in Chicago. ''If you come up light, you're getting your head kicked in.''
 The Nasdaq, which gets 42 percent of its value from computer shares, fell 36.21, or 1.5 percent, to 2,443.21. It was the index's largest slide since Nov. 27. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.25, or 0.3 percent, to 1,426.37. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 9.22, or 0.1 percent, to 12,567.93. The Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for companies with a median market value of $658 million, dropped 1.3 percent, to 778.21.
 Stocks erased early gains after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, warned of a ''fiscal crisis'' in coming decades should the government fail to curb spending for Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
 A gauge of energy stocks in the S.& P. 500 had the second-steepest retreat after oil fell to near $50 a barrel on a report that showed American oil and fuel stockpiles surged. Exxon Mobil lost 50 cents, to $71.96.
 Crude for February delivery slid 3.4 percent, to close at $50.48 in New York. Futures briefly dipped below the psychologically important $50-a-barrel level for the first time since May 2005. Oil prices have dropped by one-third since peaking above $77 a barrel in July.
 Apple, which closed at a record high two days ago, slumped $5.88, to $89.07 after it forecast second-quarter sales of as much as $4.9 billion, shy of the $5.23 billion average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
 Applied Materials retreated $1.15, to $18.25, bringing its five-day slide to 6.6 percent. Intel, which this week said competition was hurting profits, dropped 39 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $20.65, for the Dow average's biggest loss. 
 An unexpected pickup in housing starts lifted Pulte Homes and other home builders, and an S.& P. gauge of home builders advanced for a second day. Pulte Homes rose 9 cents, to $32.90, and Lennar, which said Wednesday that profit might rise this year, added 10 cents, to $52.05.
 The retailers J. C. Penney and Target also climbed as jobless claims slid to an 11-month low. Penney rose $3.97, to $83.58, after JPMorgan upgraded it to overweight from neutral. Target added $1.15, to $61.51. The reports helped offset an acceleration in inflation. The Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent in December, the first increase in four months.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bonds rose 9/32, to 99 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.74 percent, from 4.78 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (91%); SALES PROJECTIONS (91%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); HOUSING STARTS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); MEDICARE (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (61%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (57%); MEDICAID (51%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); INTEL CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); CHICAGO ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



389 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Is Betting On the Farm

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and JENNY ANDERSON; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Chicago and Jenny Anderson from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Wall Street commodity funds that have been investing heavily in energy futures are now loading up on agricultural commodities like corn and livestock futures.
 The flood of investment has raised concerns among grain traders and agricultural producers that speculative money is gaining an undue influence over their markets, which help set the prices of raw commodities for a host of consumer food products.
A recent study by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees the nation's futures markets, has found that Wall Street commodities index funds -- investments in futures that track the underlying commodities of a particular index -- have a much heavier concentration in agriculture futures markets than many had expected.
 The commission found the Wall Street funds control a fifth to a half of the futures contracts for commodities like corn, wheat and live cattle on Chicago, Kansas City and New York exchanges. On the Chicago exchanges, for example, the funds make up 47 percent of long-term contracts for live hog futures, 40 percent in wheat, 36 percent in live cattle and 21 percent in corn. 
 ''These are jaw-dropping numbers,'' said Dan Basse, president of AgResources, an agricultural research firm in Chicago. ''We have seen this explosion of open interest in agricultural commodity trading, and now we know it is largely related to the commodity index funds.''
 The index funds may be stoking volatility, traders and analysts say, because the agricultural markets tend to be far less liquid than other commodity markets, like energy. Such volatility could lead to higher prices for buyers and sellers of agricultural commodities, including food at the grocery store.
 Investors have flocked to invest in commodities, drawn to an alternative to stocks and one whose returns in the last five years have been outstanding. Industry analysts estimate the index commodity market is about $100 billion to $110 billion, up from $80 billion in 2005. 
 The market leaders are Goldman Sachs, with its Goldman Sachs commodities index, estimated to be about $60 billion at the end of 2005, and the Dow Jones-AIG commodity index, estimated at $30 billion to $40 billion. About 20 percent of the Goldman Sachs index, which has a heavy emphasis in energy, is weighted in agriculture and livestock commodities. About 40 percent of the Dow Jones-AIG index is in agriculture and livestock.
 New players have joined the market, including the restart of the CRB index in 2005, via a joint venture of Jefferies bank and Reuters.
 ''Demand is considerable,'' said Eliot Geller, a managing director at Jefferies who is on the oversight committee for the CRB Reuters-Jefferies index. 
 Commodities experts also chalk up the recent surge in demand to investors looking to diversify their portfolios. 
 ''As baby boomers approach retirement they are becoming more focused on securing that retirement nest egg and they are certainly looking for higher-return strategies,'' said John Brynjolfsson, portfolio manager for Pimco's Commodity RealReturn Strategy, a $12.1 billion mutual fund. ''But the crash of 2000 made them aware that risk management is as big a part of investing as searching for returns, and that's where commodities fit in.''
 The increased trading volume of commodities indexes, which has been building over the last three years, is generally good for giving buyers and sellers a more secure place to trade contracts and for smoothing out big price swings.
 But many in the agriculture industry say that the index funds are increasing volatility, widening the spread between low and high bets on future prices, not only because of their sheer size but because the funds have tended to move in herds in response to market signals.
 Because the funds are prohibited from actually owning physical commodities, they ''roll'' their futures contracts each month, often helping make the prices for commodities in future months higher. And each year the funds rebalance their portfolios in Robin Hood-like fashion, taking profits from commodities that have risen in price and reinvesting them in other, lower-priced commodities. The goal is to keep the commodities in the baskets at certain weighted percentages.
 The volatility, intensified by the index funds, could ultimately raise food prices for consumers, several economists and analysts said.
 ''The cost from the farm to the grocer is elevated because of the volatility from these funds,'' Mr. Basse of AgResources said. ''It will raise the cost for everybody, including the consumer.''
 The new data about the index funds' participation in agricultural markets comes at a time when the prices for corn, wheat and other grains are at record highs. There are market-related explanations for the price run-ups: The growing demand for ethanol as a transportation fuel has pushed up corn prices to their highest prices in a decade, and ethanol demand and world droughts have combined to lift wheat prices to their highest prices in a decade as well.
 The index funds could be one more factor influencing grain prices, analysts said. Volatility in the corn markets has caused the Chicago Board of Trade to increase the risk capital required to buy or sell corn futures. Last week the deposit required to trade was elevated to $1,215 a contract, up from $338 last January.
 Livestock prices have also been relatively high, driven by high prices for corn and soybeans, the principal feeds for cattle, chickens and hogs. The livestock markets are significantly less liquid than grain markets, making them more vulnerable to influence from the large index funds, analysts said.
 ''Everybody is scrambling to understand the implications of the funds' presence in the market on our ability to manage our risks,'' said Gregg Doud, the chief economist at the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.
 Mr. Doud said the concern of livestock producers was that the index funds tended to all ''head through the door at once.'' He said he shuddered at the thought of another major market shock like the one in December 2003, when a cow was discovered in Washington to have the virus that causes mad cow disease. Within a few days, live cattle prices dropped by 16 percent. 
 ''If that would have triggered a signal to head for the exit, would the index funds have exacerbated a serious situation by virtue of how big they were?'' Mr. Doud said. ''There was nobody big enough to stand on the other side.''
 Concerns began to mount last year among grain traders and live cattle producers that the index funds were being lumped into a commercial category of market participants that trade physical commodities. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission had previously concluded that the index funds were doing legitimate financial hedging, even though they were barred from trading physical commodities because of concerns that that they could corner the market. Mr. Doud from the cattlemen's association, and others, argued that the market needed to understand who was hedging physical commodities and who was hedging financial contracts.
 When the commission asked for input on the data it was providing, more than 4,600 comments poured in, a record number, said John Fenton, the commission's deputy director for market surveillance.
 ''Index trading is primarily to diversify a portfolio,'' Mr. Fenton said. ''A long position as a result of that trading would potentially send a different message to markets.''
 The commission ended up separating out the index funds into a separate category. It published the first report on Jan. 8 and also released a year's worth of historical data. The commission said it would produce the weekly breakdowns for at least the next two years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Livestock prices have been relatively high, driven by high prices for corn and soybeans, the principal feeds for cattle, chickens and hogs. (Photo by Kiichiro Sato/Associated Press)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Big Players in Commodities''Index funds have become huge investors in agricultural and livestock futures markets.WHEATPERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTS HELD BY INDEX FUNDS*: 40%CORNPERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTS HELD BY INDEX FUNDS*: 21%LEAN HOGSPERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTS HELD BY INDEX FUNDS+: 47%Graphs show trading volume and daily prices for agriculture futures since July 2006.*On the Chicago Board of Trade, as of Jan. 9+On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, as of Jan. 9.(Sources by Commodity Futures Trading Commission
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (97%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (61%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (61%); MAMMALS (53%) Livestock; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Grain; Agriculture

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



390 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Global Battle Against Measles Is Said to Save 2.3 Million Lives

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Vaccinators scaled Himalayan peaks in Nepal, waded through Cambodian paddy fields, canoed up the Congo River and rode camels across Somalia's hinterlands in an effort to immunize children against measles. New data released yesterday documents the scale of their success: the global campaign against measles has saved 2.3 million lives since 1999, mostly in Africa.
 Unicef and the World Health Organization reported that the goal of halving measles deaths worldwide by 2005 has been surpassed. Deaths fell 60 percent to 345,000 a year in 2005 from 873,000 in 1999. 
The most comprehensive push against measles unfurled across Africa. Measles deaths there plunged even more steeply, by 75 percent, saving the lives of more than 1.6 million children. 
 ''It was the Africans themselves who did this magnificent job,'' said Dr. Edward J. Hoekstra, who leads Unicef's global measles program. ''We just gave them the tools.''
 The results of the international measles undertaking will be laid out in an article by Unicef and W.H.O. doctors appearing online today in the British medical journal The Lancet.
 The $300 million assault on measles was mainly financed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Canada's International Development Agency, the American Red Cross, Ted Turner's United Nations Foundation and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which includes countries and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
 The world has come a long way since the measles vaccine was licensed in 1963. In the early 1960s, an estimated six million children died each year from measles, a highly infectious disease spread by an airborne virus. Since then, measles has been largely brought under control in many wealthy nations, but millions of children in poor countries have continued to die for want of a vaccine that costs 16 cents per dose.
 In recent years, as countries and charitable groups sought to bridge the gap between the children in rich and poor countries, more than 360 million children were vaccinated in vast, intricate campaigns that typically sought to reach every eligible child during a short, widely publicized span of days. These took place in more than 40 countries in Africa and Asia. The percentage of children vaccinated for measles through routine medical care also rose to 77 percent from 71 percent. The new goal, endorsed in 2005 at a W.H.O. assembly in Geneva, is a 90 percent cut in measles deaths by 2010. 
 The greatest remaining challenge lies in Asia, where most measles deaths are in India, Pakistan and Indonesia. Indonesia's drive against measles is well under way. Pakistan's is expected to start this year. But India has yet to adopt the strategy promoted by Unicef and the W.H.O., which calls for a second dose of measles vaccine for children during routine checkups or campaigns. 
 Experts estimate that more than 100,000 children die each year from the complications of measles in India, more than in any other nation.
 In Africa, to keep measles deaths low, national health systems too poor to provide high levels of immunization through routine health care must carry out immunization campaigns every three to four years. 
 Last year, nine African countries ran campaigns that offered not only measles shots, but also distributed free mosquito nets that cost $5 to $6 to prevent malaria, which kills 800,000 children a year in Africa.
 Public health doctors say the measles-malaria strategy has the potential to strengthen the appeal of drives to slash child mortality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEASLES (94%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); VACCINES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%) Measles; Vaccination and Immunization; Measles

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (93%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (82%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (82%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (82%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (54%) United Nations Children's Fund; World Health Organization; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; American Red Cross; United Nations Foundation; Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%) Celia W Dugger; Edward J (Dr) Hoekstra; Ted Turner

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO RIVER (88%); HIMALAYAS (73%) AFRICA (95%); ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); CANADA (92%); NEPAL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SOMALIA (88%); CAMBODIA (88%); INDONESIA (85%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (54%) Africa; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; Pakistan; Indonesia; Canada

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



391 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: A Warning From The Garden

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Well, so much for our daffodils! They all bloomed in our front yard last week. They now form a nice bright yellow cluster at the bottom of our driveway. Temperatures of 65 degrees in Washington in January will do that. Frankly, daffodils in January do brighten up the lawn. Maybe next year we'll try for roses in February. 
 Don't know about you, but when I see things in nature that I've never seen in my life, like daffodils blooming in January, it starts to feel creepy, like a ''Twilight Zone'' segment. I half expect to wake one day and find Rod Serling mowing my lawn -- in shorts. 
Why not? Last December was the fourth warmest on record, and 2006 was the hottest year in America since 1895. It was declared the hottest in Britain since 1659.
 Even the White House seems to have noticed. Al Hubbard, the president's economic adviser, says Mr. Bush will soon unveil an energy independence strategy that will produce ''headlines above the fold that will knock your socks off.'' Since everything the president has done on energy up to now has left my socks firmly in place, I will be eager to hear what Mr. Bush says.
 Neither the White House nor the Democratic Party seems to grasp that the public and business community are miles ahead of them on this energy/environment issue. The presidential candidate who finally figures that out, though -- and comes up with a compelling energy/environment agenda -- is going to have a real leg up in 2008.
 What would be compelling? I used to think it would be a ''Manhattan Project'' on energy. I don't any longer. I've learned that there is no magic bullet for reducing our dependence on oil and emissions of greenhouse gases -- and politicians who call for one are usually just trying to avoid asking for sacrifice today.
 The right rallying call is for a ''Green New Deal.'' The New Deal was not built on a magic bullet, but on a broad range of programs and industrial projects to revitalize America. Ditto for an energy New Deal. If we are to turn the tide on climate change and end our oil addiction, we need more of everything: solar, wind, hydro, ethanol, biodiesel, clean coal and nuclear power -- and conservation.
 It takes a Green New Deal because to nurture all of these technologies to a point that they really scale would be a huge industrial project. If you have put a windmill in your yard or some solar panels on your roof, bless your heart. But we will only green the world when we change the very nature of the electricity grid -- moving it away from dirty coal or oil to clean coal and renewables. And that is a huge industrial project -- much bigger than anyone has told you. Finally, like the New Deal, if we undertake the green version, it has the potential to create a whole new clean power industry to spur our economy into the 21st century.
 To spark a Green New Deal today requires getting two things right: government regulations and prices. Look at California. By setting steadily higher standards for the energy efficiency of buildings and appliances -- and creating incentives for utilities to work with consumers to use less power -- California has held its per-capita electricity use constant for 30 years, while the rest of the nation has seen per-capita electricity use increase by nearly 50 percent, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council. That has saved California from building 24 giant power plants. 
 Had Ronald Reagan not rolled back the higher fuel efficiency standards imposed on Detroit, we might need no Middle East oil today. High standards force innovation, and innovation leads to conservation at scale.
 But prices also matter. I don't care whether it is a federal gasoline tax, carbon tax, B.T.U. tax or cap-and-trade system, power utilities, factories and car owners have to be required to pay the real and full cost to society of the carbon they put into the atmosphere. And higher costs for fossil fuels make more costly clean alternatives more competitive. 
 ''The regulated utilities are the most important consumers from the perspective of long-term investment, and if they are not required to value carbon reduction then they will under-invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy,'' Peter Darbee, chairman of Pacific Gas and Electric, said to me. 
 This isn't rocket science. Government standards matter. They drive innovation and efficiency. And prices matter. They drive more and cleaner energy choices. So when the president unveils his energy proposals, if they don't call for higher efficiency standards and higher prices for fossil fuels -- take your socks off yourself. It's going to get hot around here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); WIND ENERGY (87%); SOLAR ENERGY (87%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (85%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ALCOHOLS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); BIOFUELS (63%); DIESEL FUEL (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); ETHANOL (60%) Weather; Public Opinion; Global Warming; Energy and Power; Election Issues; Weather

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



392 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

China Downs Satellite In Test of New Weapon
China successfully carried out its first test of an antisatellite weapon last week, signaling its resolve to play a major role in military space activities and bringing expressions of concern from Washington and other capitals, the Bush administration said. A1

Iran's President Losing Support 

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran appears to be under pressure from his country's highest authorities to end his involvement in Iran's nuclear program, a sign that his political capital is declining as his country comes under increasing international pressure. A1

Iraq to Review Ties With Iran
Iraq is carrying out a review of its diplomatic protocols with Iran and may place new restrictions on them, the foreign minister said, after a series of embarrassing detentions of Iranian military officials and diplomats by American forces. A8

An American killed in Baghdad had just left the headquarters of a prominent Sunni Arab political party, where she had been teaching a class on democracy. A6

Mexico Caps Tortilla Prices
Facing public outrage over the soaring price of tortillas, President Felipe Calderon of Mexico abandoned his free-trade principles and forced producers to sign an agreement fixing prices for corn products. A12

South American Trade Talks
South American leaders gathered to debate whether the Mercosur trade group should continue to emphasize economic integration or transform itself into a political alliance with an ''anti-imperialist'' tint, the path President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela favors. A12

NATIONAL A14-21

Senate Votes to Make Changes to Ethics Rules
The Senate overwhelmingly passed sweeping changes to ethics and lobbying rules, overcoming bipartisan resistance to ban many of the favors that lobbyists do for lawmakers and to illuminate the shadowy legislative practice of earmarking money for special projects. A1

Reviewing Surveillance Rules
Lawmakers demanded more information on new rules governing a domestic surveillance program, a day after the Bush administration announced that it had placed National Security Agency eavesdropping under court supervision. A18

City Bans Smoking in Cars
Bangor, Maine's second-largest city, is banning smoking in cars if children are present.The ordinance has delighted some and angered others, leading to complaints about invasion of privacy and even threats to boycott the city. A16

Expanding Health Programs
A broad coalition of business and consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and drug companies laid out a major proposal to provide health insurance coverage to more than half of the 47 million uninsured Americans by expanding federal benefit programs and offering new federal tax credits to individuals and families. A21

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Tobacco Industry Under Fire
A Harvard study concluding that cigarette makers have for years deliberately increased nicotine levels in cigarettes to make them more addictive led to renewed calls for greater federal oversight of the industry. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Parents of 9/11 Victims Torn From Grandchildren
Some aging parents of victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, desperate to remain connected to the children of their lost offspring, have found themselves in bitter struggles with a surviving spouse who would rather they did not. A1

Final List of Closing Parishes
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York is set to announce today the final list of its parishes that will close as part of a far-reaching reorganization plan, bringing to an end a process that has dragged on for more than five years. B1

Con Ed Faces Big Fines
Consolidated Edison faces the prospect of $9.3 million in penalties and tens of millions of dollars in additional sanctions as the result of a state report into its handling of the nine-day blackout in Queens that left 174,000 people without power last summer. B1

Neediest Cases B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

Fed Warning on Deficits
Warning against complacency over the federal deficit, the Federal Reserve chairman said recent positive trends on the budget were a ''calm before the storm,'' masking a danger posed by looming deficits in Social Security and Medicare. C1

Industry Push on Emissions
Ten major companies have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a firm nationwide cap on carbon dioxide emissions that would lead to reductions of 10 to 30 percent over the next 15 years. C1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES B6-7

Art Buchwald
The syndicated columnist who satirized the follies of the rich, the famous and the powerful for half a century as the most widely read newspaper humorist of his time, he was 81. A1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Nowhere to turn for shelter; apology not accepted; tell the troops; reforms for movie ratings.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E36
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E29
Weather A20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMOKING (88%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (87%); ETHICS (87%); TOBACCO MFG (87%); LOBBYING (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); SMOKING BANS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); FAMILY (70%); ORDINANCES (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); PRICE FIXING (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); TAX LAW (63%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (62%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%); FELIPE CALDERON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (52%) MAINE, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



393 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Housing Cost Takes a Bigger Leap Upward

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The cost of putting a roof over one's head in the New York metropolitan region rose faster last year than at any other time since Edward I. Koch was mayor, the federal Labor Department reported yesterday. 
 The cost of housing was the main driver of inflation in the region in 2006, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Over all, consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in the region last year, but the cost of shelter rose 6.5 percent, the biggest leap since 1989, said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of labor statistics.
''The prices of homes in the last couple of years have gone up very, very significantly,'' Mr. Dolfman said, adding that shelter costs in the region are a mixed measure of apartment rents and home ownership.
 The previous peak in housing inflation came just before a wrenching recession that dragged the region's housing market into a long slump. So far, the market for real estate has remained strong locally, though it has weakened rapidly in other parts of the country. 
 Nationally, the cost of housing rose 4.2 percent in 2006, while overall consumer prices increased 2.5 percent.
 ''There is kind of a parallel between the mid- to-late 1980s and what we're seeing today in terms of rapid appreciation,'' said Michael Slattery, a senior vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York. 
 Prices are still rising locally, but at a significantly slower rate than in the first half of 2006, Mr. Slattery said. That moderation indicates that current prices may be sustainable, he said, adding that there were no signs of a significant downturn like the one that occurred in the early 1990s.
 The overall index of housing costs, which takes into account the cost of utilities as well as rents and mortgage costs, rose 5.4 percent last year, which was also the fastest rate of increase since 1989, when it rose 6.5 percent, Mr. Dolfman said. 
 Housing supplanted energy costs as the financial gremlin for local consumers last year, the bureau's figures show. After soaring in 2005, energy costs rose just 1.7 percent last year, the bureau said. 
 The price of gasoline rose 5.3 percent, while the cost of natural gas for heating homes fell 6 percent and electricity rose just 1.7 percent.
 The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes changes in the prices of food and energy because they are volatile, rose 3.7 percent in the region last year, the biggest annual increase since 1993, the bureau reported. 
 The only other category of consumer spending that increased 5 percent or more in the region last year was the cost of eating in restaurants. Prices of food outside the home rose 5 percent, while the cost of groceries was flat.
 For the country as a whole, the cost of eating out rose more slowly (3.2 percent), but the cost of eating in rose faster (1.4 percent), according to the Labor Department.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Rising Cost of Shelter''Housing costs* in the New York metropolitan region in 2006 rose at the fastest rate in 17 years.Graph tracks annual percentage change in Housing cost since 1985.2006: +6.5%*Rent of primary residence or owners' equivalent rent of primary residence.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); DINING OUT TRENDS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



394 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Homelessness, Abuse, Illnesses and Theft Yield to Perseverance

BYLINE: By ERICKA V. MITCHELL

 BODY:
On a recent evening, Jose Hodges and his wife, Laticha, unpacked a cartful of groceries while their 1-year-old son slept in his crib in their Bronx apartment. The couple have not had many moments like this. When he was 16, Jose Hodges, who is now 24, left his home in the Bronx. He began hanging out with the wrong crowd, he said, and at the age of 19 was convicted of attempted arson for trying to set fire to a car.
 He was placed on probation, and he returned to live with his mother, his three siblings, and his mother's longtime male companion. Mr. Hodges said there was friction between him and his mother's companion, so, after two months, he chose to leave again.
Despite a learning disability that made it difficult for him to read, Mr. Hodges had learned to read music in middle school. He was hired by Eugene Klymyshyn, a blind man, to read music and text to him. But because Mr. Hodges had trouble reading, Mr. Klymyshyn hired him instead to repair his audio equipment. 
 ''I could read notes, but as far as reading text, I would stumble over words and would have to spell it out for him. So the progress was slow,'' Mr. Hodges said.
 He lived alternately at his mother's home and, for three months, in Mr. Klymyshyn's basement, even though Mr. Klymyshyn had warned him not to do so. 
 Laticha Hodges, 21, was raised by her grandmother in the Bronx since she was 5, when her mother, a former prostitute and crack addict, was murdered in Yonkers in 1990. She, too, was unhappy with her living arrangements. At the age of 6, she said, she was sexually molested by a relative. She said that a year later she was raped by two men, and that at the age of 14 she was gang-raped by four teenage boys. 
 Mrs. Hodges has received money from Supplemental Security Income, a federal cash-assistance program, since she was 5, because she has a learning disability, she said. However, she said, the money often went toward the rent.
 ''I would be lucky if I got $20 out of my own check,'' Mrs. Hodges said.
 When she was 16, she had a mental breakdown, and, she said, tried to poison everyone in the apartment -- her grandmother, her sister and her aunt -- by putting rubbing alcohol in their drinks. No one was seriously injured. Mrs. Hodges' grandmother took her to a counselor, who prescribed medication to regulate mood swings and anger. 
 She met Mr. Hodges in 2003, while he was secretly living in the basement of Mr. Klymyshyn's house, in the same Bronx neighborhood where she lived.
 Mrs. Hodges said she had found her savior.
 ''Jose was my rescue,'' she said. ''I found a way out when I met him.''
 Mrs. Hodges asked her grandmother if he could move in with them. When she refused, Mrs. Hodges joined him in Mr. Klymyshyn's basement apartment. There was a problem: Mrs. Hodges snored, and the noise led to their discovery by Mr. Klymyshyn. He ordered them out, but they did not move far, sleeping under his front porch.
 After what they said were many unsuccessful attempts at getting into shelters separately, they married on Valentine's Day 2005, making themselves eligible for a family shelter. Three weeks later, they were placed in the Parkview Hotel, a shelter in Manhattan.
 In November 2005, Mrs. Hodges gave birth to their son, Anthony, and the family was relocated to Help Morris, a shelter in the Bronx.
 A week after Anthony was born, he became ill. After he vomited and had diarrhea for a day, the Hodgeses called Anthony's pediatrician, who advised them to change the baby's formula. But he got no better and they took him to Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was given a blood transfusion because he was so dehydrated that his blood was not circulating properly, Mrs. Hodges said.
 ''He was 6-14 when he came out, and he was 4-11 when he went in,'' she said, referring to her son's weight in pounds and ounces when he was born and when he was admitted to Montefiore.
 Anthony remained hospitalized for four months for treatment of a blood clot in his leg and an enlarged vein in his head. Doctors told the Hodgeses that their son might have some developmental delays. 
 A social worker at Help Morris helped the Hodges to get an apartment. Because they did not have a mattress, however, they had to spend one last night at the shelter, and, they said, that night they were robbed of all their possessions. 
 ''I'm a video game collector, and they took all my classic stuff,'' Mr. Hodges said. ''But oh, man, the feeling was amazing, when I got the keys to my apartment.'' 
 Montefiore referred the couple to Enock Mensah, a caseworker at St. Mary's Hospital for Children in Queens, who in turn referred them to the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 The federation used $800 from the Neediest Cases to buy a crib for Anthony, and a mattress and headboard for the Hodgeses.
 Mrs. Hodges, who receives counseling four times a month, said her $640 Supplemental Security Income check covers the family's household essentials. Mr. Hodges, who is unemployed, is determined to find a job, ideally as an artist. He is good at sketching layouts and blueprints.
 ''I just want to be able to provide for my son and his education,'' he said.

Previously recorded: $7,031,850.29
Recorded Wednesday: 500.00
Total: $7,032,350.29
Last year to date: $6,399,378.18

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose and Laticha Hodges with their son, Anthony, in their new apartment in the Bronx. Mr. Hodges, who has overcome many obstacles, is seeking a job. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); ARSON (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); FIRES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); COCAINE (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



395 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Unemployment Drops 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dropped to 4.3 percent in December, the second-lowest level in the 30 years that extensive records have been kept for the city. The jobless rate, which is adjusted by the State Labor Department to account for seasonal fluctuations, was 4.5 percent in November after hitting a low of 4.1 percent in October. The number of private-sector jobs in the city increased by 45,500, or 1.5 percent, in 2006, the Labor Department reported. New York State's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 4 percent in December, down from 4.2 percent in November. Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the data ''suggest that the economy may have decelerated a bit'' at the end of last year. PATRICK McGEEHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%) Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



396 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Corn Soars, Forcing Mexico to Set Price Limits

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Facing public outrage over the soaring price of tortillas, President Felipe Calderon abandoned his free-trade principles on Thursday and forced producers to sign an agreement fixing prices for corn products.
 Skyrocketing prices for corn on the world market have pushed up the price of the humble tortilla, the mainstay of the Mexican diet, by nearly a third in the past three weeks, to 35 cents a pound in Mexico City and even higher in other parts of the country.
Half of the country's 107 million people live on $4 a day or less, and many of them survive largely on tortillas and beans. The price increases have riled the public to such an extent that it has created a political storm that threatens to swamp Mr. Calderon's fresh presidency. 
 This month, the president, who took office in December, was booed and heckled at events around the country over food prices. Mexican lawmakers called on him to impose price controls, while leftist opposition leaders suggested that he was protecting giant corn companies. One editorial cartoonist depicted him falling from a tower as tortillas flew upward like birds.
 Even members of Mr. Calderon's own conservative party in Congress called on him this week to do something quickly. 
 Last week, the president tried to contain the crisis by allowing more corn imports from the United States and ordering an investigation into whether corn distributors were colluding to manipulate prices. But the public outcry continued, and the central bank warned that the rise in corn prices would push the price of other staples up and feed inflation.
 On Thursday morning, Mr. Calderon, a fierce advocate of free trade in last year's campaign, let the hammer fall. He announced that he had reached an agreement with the major businesses involved in corn products to stabilize the price of tortillas at a maximum of about 35 cents a pound. 
 He also fixed the price of cornmeal sold to mom-and-pop tortilla shops at 14 cents a pound and announced that government-owned shops in rural areas would sell tortillas at the same price, far below the market rate. 
 ''We will not tolerate speculators and monopolists,'' he said. ''We are going to apply the law firmly and punish anyone who tries to take advantage of the needs of people.''
 There is a continuing debate here about what caused the price of tortillas to shoot up so quickly. Some economists blame the increased demand for corn from ethanol plants in the United States, and it is true corn prices in the States last week reached their highest point in a decade, the United States Agriculture Department said. At the same time, the cost of white corn has risen about 13 percent here over the past year, Mexican government figures show. 
 But Mexican lawmakers and other officials have suggested that giant tortilla companies and corn flour distributors -- among them Grupo Maseca S.A. and Maiz Industrializado S.A., often known as Minsa -- have taken advantage of the situation, hoarding supplies to drive prices up even more.
 The central bank governor, Guillermo Ortiz, said last week that the steep rise in tortilla prices could not be justified when inflation over the past year had been about 4 percent. ''We clearly have a problem of speculation,'' he said.
 On Thursday morning, President Calderon extracted promises from several large companies to freeze prices. Wal-Mart and other large retailers promised to keep their tortilla price at 27 cents a pound, while Grupo Maseca, also known as Gruma, agreed to lock in corn flour prices at 21 cents a pound and sell tortillas at no more than 35 cents a pound. 
 The spike in corn prices has hurt small storefront tortilla makers, a hallmark of the Mexican street. Jose Solano, a 27-year-old tortilla maker in Mexico City, said he had lost about 40 percent of his business since early January, when he was forced to start raising his prices. 
 ''People are still buying tortillas, but many of them buy less,'' he said. ''Look, we can't give our product away because we need a profit, and if they raise the cost of corn, there's no other way.''
 The crisis has hit hardest for the poorest Mexicans, who may spend more than a quarter of their daily salaries on tortillas. 
 ''This really affects my budget, the expenses of my family, because I cannot tell my kids to eat less,'' said Ruth Soria, a 37-year-old housewife, who was buying four pounds of tortillas for her six children on Thursday. ''This is something that they must control well. The tortilla is something basic for us. What the government did today is the least they could do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Felipe Calderon, right, with Roberto Gonzalez, the president of Gruma, before announcing set prices on corn products yesterday.
 Protesters in Mexico City on Wednesday made known their displeasure over the rising price of food staples. (Photographs by Marcos Delgado/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); MISC FOOD WHOLESALERS (64%); ETHANOL (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%) Grain; Ethanol; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wage and Price Controls; Hoarding; Tortillas; Grain

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (92%) Felipe (Pres) Calderon; James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



397 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Wants Trade Group To Embrace Anti-Imperialism

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER; Simon Romero contributed reporting from Bogota, Colombia.

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
South American leaders began gathering here on Thursday for discussions focused on a single, contentious issue: should the Mercosur trade group continue to emphasize economic integration, as Brazil and Argentina prefer, or transform itself into a political alliance with an ''anti-imperialist'' tint, the path President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela favors?
 The conference's Brazilian hosts tried to minimize the prospect of tensions, with Foreign Minister Celso Amorim talking of a ''reinforced Mercosur'' that he said ''belongs to everybody.'' But Mr. Chavez declined to play along with diplomatic niceties, bluntly staking out his position the instant he got off the plane on Thursday morning. 
 ''The press says that Chavez is coming to ideologize Mercosur, to poison and contaminate it,'' he said. In reality, he continued, his goal is ''to contribute with something we consider to be absolutely necessary: the reformatting of Mercosur'' and ''decontaminating the contamination of neoliberalism.'' 
 With memories of a murderous outburst of gang violence here still fresh and heads of state or foreign ministers from at least 10 countries expected to attend, security for the event was unusually heavy. 
 Mercosur, sometimes called the South American Common Market, was founded in 1991 with Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay as original members with full voting rights. Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru are associate members. Venezuela's application to become a full member was hurriedly accepted last year, even though the details have yet to be negotiated and Mr. Chavez's commitment to what he calls ''21st-century socialism'' clashes with Mercosur's support for open markets and free trade.
 ''In one word, it's a mess,'' said Rubens Barbosa, a former Brazilian ambassador to the United States and Britain. ''In the European Union, they negotiate the terms of entry, and then the country joins. Here we're doing it the other way around, which is craziness because Venezuela now does not want to accept the conditions it has to accept for membership.''
 In private, the four original members have also expressed concerns about Venezuela's ability to adhere in the future to the group's requirements that members follow democratic practices, which was important in Paraguay's transition out of a military dictatorship. As they see it, recent moves by Mr. Chavez raise the specter of a one-party state, perpetual re-election, a controlled press and doubts about respect for private property.
 In Caracas on Thursday, the National Assembly voted unanimously in a preliminary vote to grant Mr. Chavez the power to enact laws by decree for a period of 18 months. A final vote on the measure is expected next week.
 His supporters already control the legislature, the Supreme Court and most state governments, but the president sought the decree powers to speed changes to Venezuela's political and economic structures. Critics say the new powers would move Venezuela toward authoritarianism.
 ''It was a tremendous error to allow Chavez into Mercosur, not only because he wants to control it, but also because he is Lula's biggest rival,'' said Felipe Lampreia, who was Brazil's foreign minister from 1995 to 2001, referring to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. ''Lula is moderate and pragmatic, while Chavez is a revolutionary, socialist and international agitator who sees himself as the leader of Latin America.''
 With Mr. Chavez's enthusiastic support, Bolivia, led by his ally Evo Morales, is expected to apply formally for full membership in Mercosur. But that has created divergences within the group, because Bolivia wants a special exemption on tariff and other issues that has not been granted to the group's other smaller members.
 Uruguay, in fact, has been so unhappy with its status in Mercosur that, though led by a Socialist president, it has been seeking closer ties with the United States. Next week, the two countries are to sign a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement in Montevideo, which some experts see as the prelude to a free trade agreement that would require Uruguay's exit from Mercosur.
 ''At this moment, there are two Mercosurs, with the old one obviously dying,'' said Gilberto Dupas, director of the Institute of Economic and International Affairs, at the University of Sao Paulo. ''Chavez wants to bring his anti-American discourse into the group, but that is not desirable for Brazil, and the little partners will never accept it, especially Uruguay.''
 Among the proposals Mr. Chavez brought with him was one to create a Mercosur development bank, which he envisions as an alternative to the World Bank. But Brazil's minister of finance, Guido Mantega, reacted warily to the idea, saying it was ''complicated'' because it would require ''a new structure'' that might compete with existing regional financial mechanisms.
 Mr. Lampreia, referring to his former colleagues, said, ''They're starting to realize they've fallen into a trap.'' He added: ''They thought they could influence Chavez, but he can't be influenced. He's the owner of the ball, rich and all-powerful, and says and does what he wants.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%) International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%) Mercosur (Common Market)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez Frias; Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%) BRAZIL (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); PARAGUAY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); URUGUAY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Argentina; Brazil; Venezuela; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



398 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Warns That Entitlement Growth Could Harm Economy 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Warning against complacency over the federal deficit, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Thursday that recent positive trends on the budget were a ''calm before the storm,'' masking a long-term danger posed by looming deficits in Social Security and Medicare.
 ''The longer we wait, the more severe, the more draconian, the more difficult the adjustment is going to be,'' Mr. Bernanke said in response to a question at a Senate hearing about when lawmakers should tackle the growth of spending in the twin entitlement programs. ''I think the right time to start is about 10 years ago.'' 
Mr. Bernanke's comments were consistent with his past warnings, and those of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, about the unfinanced cost of the postwar generation's retirement. But his tone was more urgent, and it seemed aimed at the arrival of a new Democratic-led Congress that is just now setting its priorities.
 His comments also dovetailed with statements by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., favoring efforts to curb the cost of entitlements this year, despite skepticism among some lawmakers that painful steps to deal with the problem cannot be taken two years before a presidential election.
 Mr. Paulson has begun discussions with leading Democrats in Congress on Social Security and budget matters, but the administration has not shown its hand with specific proposals. President Bush's earlier proposal to convert a portion of Social Security benefits for some future retirees into individual investment accounts failed to even reach a vote in Congress.
 Mr. Bernanke's tone of urgency echoed the comments of Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat who has long criticized the Bush administration's tax cuts and warned of the risk of long-term federal deficits. Only now, Mr. Conrad was leading the hearing and welcoming Mr. Bernanke's warnings. Before Mr. Bernanke took office, he initially told lawmakers that he would avoid commenting on fiscal policy once he became Fed chairman. But like his predecessors, he has found it hard to stay out of the debate, especially when Congressional leaders demand to hear his views.
 Still, Mr. Bernanke was careful not to enter the partisan fray over taxes and spending on Capitol Hill. He said repeatedly it was not his role to dictate how Congress should deal with the problem, despite efforts by Mr. Conrad and other Democrats to get him to oppose extending the Bush administration's tax cuts, which expire in 2010.
 Neither did Republican senators succeed in prodding him to praise the Bush tax cuts specifically or tax cuts generally, as they used to be able to do with Mr. Greenspan. The previous Fed chairman said frequently that it would be better to reduce spending than increase taxes, and his support of the Bush tax cuts in 2001 angered Democrats and helped ease their passage.
 Instead, Mr. Bernanke, in his first testimony since the election remade the political landscape in Congress, said it was up to lawmakers to decide what levels of spending on social programs are appropriate, and then set taxes at a level necessary to pay for them.
 Asked by Republicans to echo their view that tax cuts lead to increased revenues, Mr. Bernanke said that tax cuts spur economic growth but that they ''usually do not pay for themselves'' by generating more tax revenue than they drain from the Treasury. 
 ''I'm going to try to avoid making specific recommendations on tax policy,'' he said in response to a question from Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee. ''I don't think there's a magic number. I only say that there is a difficult balance there.''
 To another Republican senator, Wayne Allard of Colorado, Mr. Bernanke referred to the cost of government programs and said: ''Whatever it is, you have to pay for it. That's what I'm saying.''
 Mr. Gregg also sought to make the point that, under Mr. Bush, the federal deficit had declined in the last two years because of rising tax revenues resulting from economic growth. Mr. Bernanke's entire testimony was intended to say that, while true, this trend was virtually irrelevant to the problem at hand.
 The Fed chairman came to a hearing of the Senate Budget Committee citing recent long term projections by the Congressional Budget Office that Social Security and Medicare outlays will rise from 8.5 percent of annual economic output to 10.5 percent in 2015 and 15 percent in 2030.
 These costs, in turn, would force the United States to keep borrowing, pushing the ratio of publicly held federal debt from its current level of 37 percent of the economy to about 100 percent in 2030, a level reached in the past only during World War II.
 ''If government debt and deficits were actually to grow at the pace envisioned by the C.B.O.'s scenario, the effects on the U.S. economy would be severe,'' Mr. Bernanke told the committee. He said the trends would slow economic growth, drain away funds for private investment and sap confidence of consumers, businesses and investors.
 Mr. Paulson's negotiations with Congress have been very preliminary, his aides say. The talks will probably not begin in earnest until after President Bush's State of the Union speech on Jan. 23, when he is expected to outline not only his approach on entitlements but on the overall budget.
 Mr. Bush has said that the tax cuts are all but sacrosanct in his view, and Democratic leaders say they do not expect to try this year to rescind even the parts of them that most benefit the rich. Administration officials say they are waiting for the Democrats to lay out their own approach to the budget, taxes and entitlements.
 Mr. Bernanke seemed to go out of his way to agree with every questioner, but he flatly disputed the trade views of Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont, newly elected as an independent but who describes himself as a socialist and votes as a Democrat.
 When Mr. Sanders said that recent trade deals with China and with Mexico and Canada had eroded jobs, the Fed chairman said: ''I don't agree with that.'' He said that the nation's $800 billion trade deficit resulted from a low savings and high consumption rate in the United States, not those or other trade deals.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, right, before his testimony yesterday. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, at the hearing yesterday. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TAX RELIEF (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); TAX INCREASES (63%) United States Economy; Social Security (US); Medicare; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); KENT CONRAD (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Alan Greenspan; Steven Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



399 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Rebuke in Iran To Its President On Nuclear Role

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI and MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi reported from Tehran, and Michael Slackman from Cairo.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Iran's outspoken president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, appears to be under pressure from the highest authorities in Iran to end his involvement in its nuclear program, a sign that his political capital is declining as his country comes under increasing international pressure.
 Just one month after the United Nations Security Council imposed sanctions on Iran to curb its nuclear program, two hard-line newspapers, including one owned by the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, called on the president to stay out of all matters nuclear. 
In the hazy world of Iranian politics, such a public rebuke was seen as a sign that the supreme leader -- who has final say on all matters of state -- might no longer support the president as the public face of defiance to the West. 
 It is the first sign that Mr. Ahmadinejad has lost any degree of Ayatollah Khamenei's confidence, a potentially damaging development for a president who has rallied his nation and defined his administration by declaring nuclear power Iran's ''inalienable right.''
 It was unclear, however, whether this was merely an effort to improve Iran's public image by lowering Mr. Ahmadinejad's profile or was signaling a change in policy. 
 The presidency is a relatively weak position with no official authority over foreign policy, the domain of the supreme leader. But Mr. Ahmadinejad has used his post as a bully pulpit to insert himself into the nuclear debate, and as long as he appeared to enjoy Ayatollah Khamenei's support, he could continue. 
 While Iran remains publicly defiant, insisting that it will move ahead with its nuclear ambitions, it is under increasing strain as political and economic pressures grow. And the message that Iran's most senior officials seem to be sending is that Mr. Ahmadinejad, with his harsh approach and caustic comments, is undermining Iran's cause and its standing. 
 The Security Council passed a resolution on Dec. 23 with sanctions intended to curb Iran's uranium enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes but the United States and some European nations contend is for the purpose of creating nuclear weapons. The measure bars the trade of goods or technology related to Iran's nuclear program. Enriched uranium can be used for making nuclear fuel but also for making nuclear weapons. 
 The president dismissed the Security Council resolution as ''a piece of torn paper.''
 But the daily Jomhouri-Eslami, which reflects the views of Ayatollah Khamenei, said, ''The resolution is certainly harmful for the country,'' adding that it was ''too much to call it 'a piece of torn paper.' ''
 The newspaper added that the nuclear program required its own diplomacy, ''sometimes toughness and sometimes flexibility.''
 In another sign of pressure on the president to distance himself from the nuclear issue, a second newspaper, run by an aide to the country's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, also pressed Mr. Ahmadinejad to end his involvement in the nuclear program. Mr. Larijani also ran for president and was selected for his post by the supreme leader.
 ''They want to minimize the consequences of sanctions now that they have been imposed,'' said Mohammad Atrianfar, an executive at the daily Shargh, which was closed last fall, and a reformist politician. ''But they don't have clear strategy, and they are taking one step at a time.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad took office more than a year ago as an outsider, the mayor of Tehran who promised to challenge the status quo, to equally distribute Iran's oil wealth and to restore what he saw as the lost values of the Islamic revolution. His was a populist message, centered on a socialist economic model and Islamic values. He found opposition from the right and the left, in Parliament and among so-called pragmatists.
 That pressure has continued, and the criticism now seems to have gained more credibility in the face of the sanctions and Iran's troubled economic standing. The United States increased pressure on Iran over its role in Iraq has also raised concerns in Tehran and may be behind efforts to restrain the president, political analysts in Tehran said.
 ''The resolution has decreased Iran's political credibility in the international community, and so other countries cannot defend Iran,'' said Ahmad Shirzad, a reformist politician and a former legislator.
 Although the Security Council sanctions were limited to Iran's nuclear program, they have started to cause economic disruptions. 
 About 50 legislators signed a letter this week calling on the president to appear before Parliament to answer questions about the nuclear program. They need at least 22 more signatures. 
 In another letter, 150 lawmakers criticized the president for his economic policies, which have led to a surge in inflation, and for his failure to submit his annual budget on time. 
 The Iranian stock market, which was already in a slump, continued to decline -- falling more rapidly in the past month -- as buyers stayed away from the market. The daily Kargozaran reported last week that the number of traders had decreased by 46 percent since the Security Council resolution was passed. 
 ''The resolution has had a psychological effect on people,'' said Ali Hagh, an economist in Tehran. ''It does not make sense for investors not to consider political events when they want to invest their money.'' 
 Kargozaran reported that a group of powerful businessmen, the Islamic Coalition Party, met with Mohammad Nahavandian, a senior official at the Supreme National Security Council, and called for moderation in the country's nuclear policies to prevent further damage to the economy. 
 In the past year, several major European banks have severed their business ties with Iran. Economists say the banks' actions will also lead to an increase in inflation because importers must turn to complicated ways to finance purchases.
 ''The nuclear issue has paved the way for other forms of pressures on Iran,'' Mr. Shirzad said.
 Despite Mr. Ahmadinejad's harsh language since the resolution was passed, Ayatollah Khamenei has not referred to it directly and only once said that Iran would not give up its right to pursue its nuclear program.
 Mr. Larijani has said that Iran will not quit the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty or bar international inspectors despite earlier threats to do so. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about criticism of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's president, by Iranian religious authorities over his involvement in the country's nuclear program misstated the connection between Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, and Jomhouri-Eslami, a newspaper that has rebuked Mr. Ahmadinejad. (The error was repeated in an article about Iran on Tuesday.) Ayatollah Khamenei owned the newspaper until 1989, when he became supreme leader and transferred ownership to Massih Mohajeri, a conservative politician. However, the newspaper still reflects Ayatollah Khamenei's views.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); ALI KHAMENEI (90%) Nazila Fathi; Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ali (Ayatollah) Khamenei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007



400 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 806 words

PERSON: Richard A. Musgrave

HEADLINE: Richard A. Musgrave, 96, Theoretician of Public Finance 

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Richard A. Musgrave, an economist who has been called the father of modern public finance, died Monday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 96.
 He died of natural causes, said his wife, Peggy Brewer Musgrave, also an economist.
Mr. Musgrave took about 20 years to conceive, write and publish the 1959 work for which he is best known, ''The Theory of Public Finance,'' an analysis of how governments allocate resources and respond to social needs.
 ''It still stands unchallenged,'' the economic historian Mark Blaug wrote decades later. ''Anyone with a question in the theory of public finance can be told even now, 'it's all in Musgrave.' '' 
 Before Mr. Musgrave's research, most theoretical work by British and American economists was geared toward understanding the behavior of prices, supply and demand as they interacted with other market forces. Governments played a secondary role, stepping in mainly to fill gaps when the markets failed.
 Mr. Musgrave had a different view, his wife said. He saw the government as having an important economic role and developed a theory on the way taxes and other factors interact in areas where goods and services -- roads, schools, courts and national defense, for example -- were best provided by the government. 
 In essence, Mr. Musgrave's theory broke down governmental economic activity into three parts: the allocation of resources; the distribution of goods and services; and the stabilization of the broader economy.
 The theory paid particular attention to the process of determining what people want and need in the absence of a pricing system. 
 In a market economy, for example, prices can be a good indicator of demand, but such information does not exist in the public sector, where consumers receive many goods and services without paying for them directly. By developing a theoretical understanding of how choices are made in that environment, Mr. Musgrave hoped to help governments perform more effectively.
 His approach has been praised for its insights as well as its success in taking murky, complicated real-world situations and distilling them down to comprehensible patterns. 
 ''Again and again Musgrave succeeds in showing that longstanding puzzles and confusions in the theory of public finance are dissolved once they are classified in accordance with this scheme,'' Mr. Blaug wrote in ''Great Economists Since Keynes,'' a collection of profiles of 100 influential economists of the last century. 
 Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard and the president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, said in a statement issued by Harvard, ''Richard Musgrave transformed economics in the 1950s and 1960s from a descriptive and institutional subject to one that used the tools of microeconomics and Keynesian macroeconomics to understand the effect of taxes.''
 Later in his career, Mr. Musgrave worked as an economic adviser to the governments of several developing countries, including Bolivia, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Puerto Rico, South Korea and Taiwan. He believed that such countries could become more prosperous if they overhauled their inefficient tax systems and that they did not have to skew tax breaks to the rich to promote growth. 
 Born in Germany, Mr. Musgrave owed some of his insights to the work of 19th- and early-20th-century German economists, whose work he studied at the University of Heidelberg. Those economists placed a greater emphasis on the role of government in promoting the collective good than their British-American counterparts. Mr. Musgrave later translated some of their work into English. 
 Mr. Musgrave was born on Dec. 14, 1910, in Konigstein, a small town near Frankfurt. He graduated from the University of Heidelberg in 1933. After leaving Germany, he spent a short time at the University of Rochester before transferring to Harvard. There, he received his Ph.D. in 1937 and began teaching economics.
 At that time, he was already starting to develop his theory of public finance, his wife said. 
 During World War II, Mr. Musgrave joined the Federal Reserve Board, where he became the personal assistant to the chairman, Marriner S. Eccles, an outspoken fiscal expansionist who struggled to contain wartime inflation. 
 After the war, Mr. Musgrave briefly taught at Swarthmore College, then joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1948, returning to work on his theory. 
 Later, he taught economics at Johns Hopkins University, Princeton, and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Law School at Harvard. 
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Musgrave is survived by three stepchildren, Pamela Clyne of New Jersey, Roger Richman of Malibu, Calif., and Thomas Richman of Boulder, Colo., and several nieces and nephews, including Harry Krause, a law professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Musgrave (Photo by Joe Wrinn/Harvard News Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HISTORY (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

 
