

601 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Hewlett-Packard Is Accused of Misleading Holders

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., April 23 

 BODY:
Lawyers representing the dissident director Walter B. Hewlett delivered a sweeping attack today on the integrity and credibility of the management of Hewlett-Packard, contending that it had repeatedly misled shareholders about the projected gains from its planned purchase of Compaq Computer even as senior executives inside the companies became increasingly pessimistic.
 The main evidence presented in court by the lawyers for Mr. Hewlett was a series of documents prepared by the teams from Hewlett-Packard and Compaq who were planning how to merge the companies smoothly to achieve the cost-saving and profit-enhancing goals that justify the merger. 
 In a report on a meeting in late February, for example, the chief financial officer for Compaq, Jeff Clarke, described sales projections for the second half of 2002 as "a pure disaster" while the estimates of operating profit for 2003 were more than $1 billion below their goals. In an e-mail message on March 12, Mr. Clarke, assessing recent sales estimates, said, "It is ugly." He added that "both companies are deteriorating" in a weak economy and partly as a result of customer uncertainty about the controversial merger. 
An entry in the personal journal of Michael D. Capellas, the Compaq chief executive, mentioned a "sobering thought" as the two companies were about to embark on the largest merger in computing history. "At current course and speed, we will fail," he wrote, as the document was quoted in court.
Mr. Hewlett, who led a costly and acrimonious proxy fight against the Compaq merger, is challenging the shareholder vote, which Hewlett-Packard apparently won by a slender margin.
A lawyer for Hewlett-Packard scoffed at the allegations, saying the company's management and board was being "dragged through the mud in the courtroom and in the national media" armed with nothing more than a biased selection of excerpts from documents and "pure speculation."
But in his opening remarks, Mr. Hewlett's lawyer, Stephen C. Neal, said the documents that he began to introduce on the first day of the three-day trial came mostly from the "joint chiefs of staff of the integration effort, not the privates on the front line." The documents showed growing concern among those planning the merger details, Mr. Neal said, even while the Hewlett-Packard management team, led by Carleton S. Fiorina, its chief executive, continued to make "public statements that things were going swimmingly."
The gloomier assessments, Mr. Neal said, were never made public. "None of it," he said in his opening remarks, "was disclosed to the shareholders and none of it was disclosed to the H.P. board. That alone should prompt the court to throw out the vote."
The emphasis on allegations that Hewlett-Packard's management made misleading statements and withheld important information from shareholders seems to be somewhat of a shift of tactics for Mr. Hewlett's side. When the suit was filed in late March in Delaware, where Hewlett-Packard, like so many companies, is incorporated, the featured allegation was a vote-buying claim.
The claim was that Hewlett-Packard illegally persuaded a large institutional shareholder, Deutsche Bank Asset Management, to switch 17 million shares to vote in favor of the deal at the last minute. In the complaint, Mr. Hewlett charged that "H.P.'s clandestine use of corporate assets" -- promising to give or withhold future banking business -- to get Deutsche Bank to switch "tainted more than enough votes" to tip the closely contested vote in favor of the deal.
Last week, however, the independent inspectors making the official count in the proxy fight said their preliminary tally gave Hewlett-Packard the edge by some 45 million shares -- a slender but significant margin. It meant that if the Delaware court decided to nullify the Deutsche Bank share votes or take them from the company and put them on Mr. Hewlett's side of the ledger, the arithmetic still would not give Mr. Hewlett a victory.
The vote-buying claim is still very much a part of Mr. Hewlett's suit, but it is not the pivotal allegation. Today, Mr. Neal termed the Deutsche Bank element of the case "circumstantial, but it is powerful."
For the judge hearing the case, William B. Chandler III, to nullify the shareholder vote on March 19, he would have to find that the voting process itself was corrupted. That is a high threshold of proof for Mr. Hewlett's side to try to reach, according to legal experts. But the wide-ranging assault on the integrity of the Hewlett-Packard management, they say, is the plaintiffs' best chance.
The first witness to take the stand was Ms. Fiorina, and Mr. Neal repeatedly tried to show that her confident public statements were contradicted by the internal documents. Yet Ms. Fiorina, speaking softly but firmly, proved a difficult witness to corner. When presented with documents showing pessimistic projections, she would typically reply, "Yes, that is what the document says." Or "Yes, your math is correct."
But during four and a half hours of testimony today, Ms. Fiorina consistently portrayed the seemingly damaging documents as showing the business units in both companies struggling to meet internal "stretch" targets. The whole point of the process, she said, was to try to make the businesses strain to maximize gains, so that the combined company would "underpromise and overdeliver."
When asked if the internal integration documents in question were ever presented to the board or shareholders, Ms. Fiorina replied, "No, it would have been irresponsible to do so."
Later, she added: "It is like trying to tell a whole movie with a single snapshot, or frame. That can provide a very misleading picture."
This afternoon, Compaq said the journal was taken "out of context and refers to a comment at an internal staff meeting on a single issue and not the merger as a whole." Mr. Capellas, the statement added, is confident the merger will prove a success.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter B. Hewlett, the dissident director of Hewlett-Packard, and his wife, Esther, outside the Delaware Court of Chancery yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (79%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%) LOHR, STEVE; HEWLETT, WALTER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (74%) DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



602 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Enron Ex-Chief Said to Voice Suspicion of Fraud 

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, has told investigators that the top-flight financial returns that investors made from a partnership that did business with the company could have been achieved only if the corporation was defrauded, according to documents and people involved in the case. 
 In discussions earlier this year with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Skilling said that he never knew the size of the profits being generated by the partnership. He indicated to the S.E.C. and to investigators for a special committee of the Enron board that such returns -- which were as high as 2,500 percent in one transaction -- could not have been achieved through arms-length transactions, according to these people and investigative notes. 
 When shown records that laid out the details of the financial returns during his testimony several months ago before the S.E.C., Mr. Skilling was said to have grown agitated as he described his opinion of the information. Had he known the magnitude of the profits, Mr. Skilling was said to have told the regulators, he would have immediately summoned Enron executives involved in the dealings and given them 24 hours to justify such outsize results. 
The reported statements by Mr. Skilling are the first time since Enron exploded into public view that any former executive is known to have expressed the opinion that the dealings between the company and some of the partnerships controlled by its former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, might have been improper. 
In his statements to investigators, people involved in the case said, Mr. Skilling did not cite specific actions taken on behalf of the partnerships that he considered to be improper but rather reached his conclusions based on the outsize rates of return that were portrayed to investors in the partnership, known as LJM2. The only way such dealings could have been appropriate, Mr. Skilling was said to have told regulators, was if LJM2 lost significant amounts of money in the months after the stellar returns.
Bruce Hiler, a lawyer for Mr. Skilling, declined to comment. Gordon Andrew, a spokesman for Mr. Fastow, declined to comment.
Mr. Skilling made his statements to investigators after reviewing LJM2 records during his testimony to the S.E.C., according to documents and people involved in the case. Those records were from a presentation to investors made at an annual partnership meeting on Oct. 26, 2000, in Palm Beach, Fla. 
Mr. Skilling attended the Palm Beach meeting and was a featured guest speaker, the partnership records show. But Mr. Skilling was said to have told investigators that he knew little of what was discussed with partnership investors at the meeting. He reported that he arrived at the session 45 minutes before his talk and spent much of that time in a heated conversation with executives from the New Power Company about whether the Enron affiliate had exceeded certain credit limits. 
After those discussions, Mr. Skilling was said to have told investigators, he made a 15-minute presentation to the LJM2 investors, after which he left. As a result, Mr. Skilling reported, the first time he ever heard of the rates of return on LJM2 transactions was when the S.E.C. showed him records from the meeting. 
The information that upset Mr. Skilling during his S.E.C. testimony -- which has not been made public -- was on the 20th page of a long report to investors in LJM2. There, LJM2 summarized its investment activity, laying out the details of its performance on a series of transactions conducted with Enron. 
Several of the transactions involved partnerships called the Raptors, which were set up to provide hedges for certain Enron holdings. Thus, if the holdings decreased in value, the value of the hedges was expected to rise, and vice versa. The special committee of the Enron board, however, concluded in a report earlier this year that the Raptors did not provide true hedges but were instead used improperly to inflate the company's reported profits. 
In the LJM2 presentation, investors were told that the partnership had generated rates of return on its investments in the Raptor ranging from just more than 150 percent to 2,500 percent. 
In his statements to investigators, Mr. Skilling said that such results, being presented after his own speech about Enron, made him look foolish -- in essence, because he was running a company that was being so drastically outflanked in negotiations by a partnership. 
In the months since Enron's collapse, Mr. Skilling has been widely criticized by members of Congress because of his testimony before several committees investigating the debacle. In that testimony, Mr. Skilling repeatedly expressed little knowledge of many details of Enron's dealings with the partnerships.
In this instance, Mr. Skilling has told investigators that there was no reason for him to have known about the returns earned by the partnerships, documents show. He said that he never asked Mr. Fastow about the performance of LJM2 because it was a separate entity and the disclosure of such information to Enron would not have been appropriate.
The partnerships were originally formed for a variety of financial purposes that were widely used in the 1990's. For instance, by bringing in outside investors who would own portions of the partnerships, under the accounting rules, Enron was allowed to sell assets to the partnerships, shifting them off their books. The outside investors -- including pension funds, banks and wealthy individuals -- then received profits from their partnership stakes for assuming the liabilities associated with those assets.
But eventually, the transactions in the partnerships grew to be manipulative, according to a report by the special committee of the Enron board, with assets shifted into partnerships at the end of a reporting period, then brought back on later. Many seemingly irrational transactions with the partnerships served no economic purpose other than to pump up Enron's earnings improperly, and investigators are now studying those deals to see if they might have part of a securities fraud scheme intended to misrepresent the company's true performance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (82%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (82%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); ETHICS (69%); DEREGULATION (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; PARTNERSHIPS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); NEW POWER CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%) ENRON CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; LJM2 (PARTNERSHIP) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; SKILLING, JEFFREY K 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



603 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Peddling George Pataki's New York 

 BODY:
Over the years, especially during the election seasons, television screens have been clogged with commercials showing governors pitching their big issues or appealing for some public good. It does not take an advertising genius to figure out that these ads are not primarily about selling states or their programs, but about selling the governors themselves. 
 New York is a particularly good example of why a governor is not always the best choice for marketing the state. George Pataki has been making his pitch for more tourists, for more new businesses and, in recent days, for the state health care plan. Whatever his strengths as a chief executive, Mr. Pataki is no Tom Hanks. Some of his supporters argue that it is not merely Mr. Pataki's salesmanship skills but his credibility that helps market the state and its programs. 
 Since the election for governor takes place this fall and television campaigns in New York State are very expensive, Mr. Pataki's Democratic opponents are howling about his freebie air time. Even if the governor halts these ads, as promised, in May, six months before Election Day, Democrats have a point. Funds for the recent surge of state promotions are provided by taxpayers, not all of whom are Republicans.
Besides, there are far better ways to market New York's various attractions and benefits. The state is full of civic-minded superstars -- Bette Midler, say, who could wrestle with a canoe upstate, just as Barbara Walters offered her tap routine to help tourism in the city. For family health-care ads, may we suggest a George Clooney in his best green scrubs? If Mr. Pataki is really serious about wanting to entice tourists or to advertise state programs rather than merely capturing votes, he should cede the cameras permanently to the stars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EXECUTIVES (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; TELEVISION; ELECTIONS; CELEBRITIES 

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (79%); BARBARA WALTERS (58%); TOM HANKS (54%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



604 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: JUSTICES WEAKEN MOVEMENT BACKING PROPERTY RIGHTS 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court ruled today that a government-imposed moratorium on property development, even one that lasts for years, does not automatically amount to a "taking" of private property for which taxpayers must compensate the landowners.
 The 6-to-3 decision was a sharp setback for the property rights movement, which has scored many recent successes in the Supreme Court. The ruling came in a case that sought millions of dollars in compensation for a prolonged restriction on development along the shores of Lake Tahoe. 
 The plaintiffs, hundreds of people who had bought undeveloped lots in the expectation of building houses on the scenic lake, argued that a restriction that even temporarily deprives property owners of all "economically viable" use of their land is a taking for which the Constitution requires compensation.
Supreme Court decisions over the last 15 years had suggested that this in fact might be the law, a prospect that galvanized a broad coalition of government and planning groups to urge the justices to reject such a categorical rule. The Bush administration entered the case against the property owners. 
Writing for the court today, Justice John Paul Stevens said, "A rule that required compensation for every delay in the use of property would render routine government processes prohibitively expensive or encourage hasty decision making." He added: "Such an important change in the law should be the product of legislative rule making rather than adjudication."
The complex law of "takings" is based on the Fifth Amendment's provision that private property shall not "be taken for public use without just compensation."
Today's decision had the effect of limiting some of the court's recent property rights rulings and left property rights advocates scrambling to minimize the scope of their defeat, at least for public consumption. One such group, the Pacific Legal Foundation, called the decision "an unfortunate blip in the forward progress of property rights."
On the other side, Community Rights Counsel, a public interest law firm that filed a brief for government groups that included the Council of State Governments, the National League of Cities and the National Governors Association, called the decision "the best news from the Supreme Court on takings law in more than 20 years."
The majority opinion was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas both filed dissenting opinions, and Justice Antonin Scalia, usually the court's most vocal advocate of increased protection for private property rights, signed both of those opinions without writing one of his own.
For Justice Scalia, the decision today in Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, No. 00-1167, must have been a particularly bitter defeat in two respects. 
First, the majority rejected an expansive ruling of one of his most important opinions, a 10-year-old decision called Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council in which the court announced for the first time that a land-use regulation that, while leaving the property in the owner's hands, permanently deprived it of all economic use was a "categorical taking" that must be compensated.
The Lucas decision breached what had been a doctrinal wall between a physical taking, in which the government actually takes possession of private property and for which compensation has always been required, and a "regulatory taking," in which the government restricts the owner's use of the property. 
Under the court's precedents, regulatory takings were subject to a case-by-case balancing test that weighed the government's interests against the owner's legitimate expectations. But the Lucas case involved a regulatory taking, an environmental ban on coastal development, so the decision raised the prospect that even temporary restrictions might be subject to the categorical rule.
The court today made clear that the distinction between a physical and a regulatory taking would remain a vital one. Justice Stevens relegated the Lucas decision to "the extraordinary case in which a regulation permanently deprives property of all value," a rule with no application to a temporary even if prolonged moratorium.
As Justice Stevens explained the reason for treating the two categories of takings differently: "Land-use regulations are ubiquitous and most of them impact property values in some tangential way -- often in completely unanticipated ways. Treating them all as per se takings would transform government regulation into a luxury few governments could afford. By contrast, physical appropriations are relatively rare, easily identified, and usually represent a greater affront to individual property rights."
In a second defeat for Justice Scalia, the court revisited a property rights case it had inconclusively decided last June. In that case, Palazzolo v. Rhode Island, the court held by a 5-to-4 vote that restrictions on a coastal landowner's use of his property might amount to a taking and sent the case back to the Rhode Island courts to decide whether a taking had actually occurred. 
Two members of Justice Kennedy's majority in that case, Justices O'Connor and Scalia, battled in separate opinions over what factors the state courts should consider. Justice O'Connor argued that "all relevant circumstances" should be weighed, cautioning that because the restriction was already in place when the land owner acquired the property, the courts should guard against a "windfall" takings award. Justice Scalia advocated a flat rule: the pre-existing restriction should have no bearing on the analysis.
The majority today firmly embraced Justice O'Connor's position over Justice Scalia's. Courts should examine "a number of factors rather than a simple mathematically precise formula," Justice Stevens said, quoting from her concurring opinion.
Today's decision upheld a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco that no categorical taking had occurred in two sequential regulations issued by a regional planning agency that blocked development around Lake Tahoe for 32 months from 1981 to 1984. 
The Tahoe Regional Planning Agency was set up under an interstate compact between California and Nevada, which share the Lake Tahoe coastline. Concerned that the lake's famously crystalline water was being degraded by run-off from developed areas above the shore, the agency used the moratorium to study the problem and develop a long-term land-use plan.
In his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice Rehnquist objected that the court should have considered a longer period, beginning in 1981, in which development was restricted. In any event, he said, "a distinction between 'temporary' and 'permanent' prohibitions is tenuous" and had been effectively erased by the Lucas decision. "The rationale for the Lucas rule applies just as strongly in this case," the chief justice said.
One important aspect of the decision was its reaffirmation of a doctrine, disputed by property rights advocates, known as the "parcel as a whole" rule. Under this rule, the analysis of whether a regulation that affects only part of a piece of land, typically a wetlands or wildlife habitat, must take into account the impact on the property as a whole and not just on the regulated portion. Professor Patrick A. Parenteau, a land use expert at Vermont Law School, said in an interview today that without the protection of the "parcel as a whole" rule, much environmental land use regulation would be considered a taking and would be prohibitively expensive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ZONING (78%); VERDICTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LAKES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (71%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); GOVERNORS (60%) DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; WATER POLLUTION; LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ZONING; CONSTITUTIONS; FIFTH AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION) 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%) GREENHOUSE, LINDA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENS, JOHN PAUL (ASSOC JUSTICE); O'CONNOR, SANDRA DAY (ASSOC JUSTICE); KENNEDY, ANTHONY M (ASSOC JUSTICE); SOUTER, DAVID H (ASSOC JUSTICE); GINSBURG, RUTH BADER (ASSOC JUSTICE); BREYER, STEPHEN G (ASSOC JUSTICE); REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE); THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE); SCALIA, ANTONIN (ASSOC JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) LAKE TAHOE (NEV); CALIFORNIA; NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



605 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Tenuous Truce in Venezuela for the State and Its Oil Company 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, April 23 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez and the managers of Petroleos de Venezuela have battled to an uneasy truce in their struggle for control of the state oil monopoly. 
 But fear persists at the company. 
 Many managers at the towering headquarters here are afraid to discuss their role in the protests this month that surged into huge street demonstrations and led to the president's two-day ouster. Some have opened e-mail accounts under false names to exchange information. 
"The scars remain," Eddie Ramirez, an executive from the company whom Mr. Chavez fired earlier this year, said in an interview. "President Chavez is not a man who gives up easily."
The protests followed a management revolt after Mr. Chavez challenged the traditional independence of the oil company by replacing top executives with his political allies. The company, with 40,000 employees and $50 billion a year in sales, was a target Mr. Chavez could not resist. In a nation that floats on a sea of oil, Petroleos de Venezuela rules the waves. 
Venezuela's economy would collapse if not for the monopoly, which provides 80 percent of the country's export revenue. Completely owned by the state, the company provides funds to meet essential obligations, including military salaries. 
The company also gives Venezuela international stature, making it the third-largest provider of oil and oil products to the United States and a pivotal member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. It even operates 13,000 gas stations in the United States, through its Citgo subsidiary.
Without control of the monopoly, said Alberto Garrido, a political scientist who has written several books on Mr. Chavez, "there is no top-down revolution for Chavez, even though this is a strategy that gambles with the economic heart of the country." 
After he regained power on April 14, Mr. Chavez sought to appease the angry executives by selecting Ali Rodriguez Araque, secretary general of OPEC and a noted Venezuelan petroleum expert, as company president.
"Ali is walking a tightrope and he knows it," said Pedro M. Burelli, a former board member at Petroleos de Venezuela who resigned before the recent protests. "On one hand he's the ideologue behind Chavez's oil policy; on the other he's the only guy in the government who's respected" within the company.
On Monday, in one of his first moves, Mr. Rodriguez approved a board that included several dissident executives who had remained at the company. But Mr. Rodrguez, who was a guerrilla fighter in the 1960's and has never abandoned leftist ideas, also said the company "should be a key instrument in the fight against poverty."
That phrase suggested that Mr. Rodriguez will continue a policy he helped create as Mr. Chavez's mines and energy minister, a post he held before going to OPEC. Reversing the company's long tradition of competing internationally on the merit of its technological prowess, Mr. Chavez's government steadily cut investment in production and reduced output in an effort to drive up the price of oil and generate more income.
The policy gained Mr. Chavez new support in OPEC, where Venezuela had long been known as a quota-buster. But top executives at Petroleos de Venezuela chafed as this policy diminished the nation's position in the global industry.
Venezuela now accounts for just 3 percent of global production, down from 10 percent in the 1970's, according to Petroleo Y.V., an energy analysis company here. According to an estimate by one Venezuelan oil executive, Petroleos de Venezuela's active drilling rigs number 44 this year, down from 100 in 1998.
To justify his efforts to gain greater control, Mr. Chavez assailed the company as a "state within a state." In rousing populist speeches, he said its executives enjoyed privileges unknown to ordinary Venezuelans, like yachts and "chalets in the Andes."
But he underestimated the political costs of antagonizing the managers, who have long enjoyed a privileged position in a society where other institutions are in disarray. "Flashing your ID card is an instant status symbol, especially in the smaller towns," said a former manager at the company. 
The company takes pride in the meritocracy derived from its multinational roots. When Venezuela nationalized its oil industry in the 1970's, the management at the local operations of Royal Dutch/Shell and other foreign companies that eventually became Petroleos de Venezuela remained.
The company "inherited a tradition of internationally recognized excellence from its corporate forebears that continues to this day," said Alberto Quiros Corradi, a former executive at the monopoly. 
About 14,000 white-collar employees are near the top of the nation's business establishment. Salaries, low by international standards, are high for Venezuela. The president of the company is believed to make up to $20,000 a month, about 10 times the salary of the mines and energy minister, who is nominally his boss. (The chalets denounced by Mr. Chavez are time-shares for employees, maintained with small contributions from their salaries, several managers said.)
Now it is up to Ali Rodriguez to repair the damage that the turmoil caused inside the company. He has signaled that he intends to rehire executives dismissed by Mr. Chavez. Some, in fact, simply ignored Mr. Chavez's orders and continued with their duties.
"We never stopped coming to work anyway because we felt we had a responsibility to keep the company operating," said Alfredo Rira, an executive who was one of the targets in Mr. Chavez's purge. 
The dissident executives took heart in the removal of Gaston Parra during the protests. Mr. Parra, a university lecturer on petroleum economics with almost no experience in large bureaucracies, had been installed by Mr. Chavez as president of Petroleos de Venezuela in February. 
At the same time, the company has resumed selling oil to Cuba at bargain prices, a policy begun by Mr. Chavez as he has shifted Venezuela into a close alliance with President Fidel Castro.
"The president got a strong signal that meddling is not easy," Humberto Calderon Berti, a former president of the company, said in an interview. "But one has to wonder whether the fundamental aspects of our oil policy are now going to be open to change."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT A GLANCE: State of Production"Average crude oil production in Venezuela in the last decade. Graph tracks Venezuelan oil production in millions of barrels a day from 1992-2002.(HUGO CHAVEZ BECOMES PRESIDENT IN FEB. 1999.) (Source: Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CARTELS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); GAS STATIONS (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RIOTS (62%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



606 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Fears About Microsoft Return, in Mexico 

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 23 

 BODY:
While Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft, defended the company against charges of monopolistic practices before Congress this week, legislators in Mexico City prepared their own attack against a new agreement by Microsoft and the Mexican government that could drive millions of new Internet users into Microsoft's waiting arms by the end of the year.
 Last week, Microsoft agreed to support the e-Mexico project, a government initiative to bring Internet access within reach of 9 of 10 Mexicans by the end of the six-year presidential term of Vicente Fox. Microsoft will provide millions of dollars worth of free or discount-price software, training and support over the next five years and train 20,000 technicians and engineers to set up and run hundreds of e-Mexico public computer centers across the country. The government put the value of the donation at $30 million; Microsoft valued it at $6 million. 
 The deal is the second that the country has signed with major American companies. In the first, Intel agreed to donate $17 million to train 17,000 elementary-school teachers in computer technology. Julio Cesar Margain, director of the e-Mexico project, said deals with I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard were imminent. 
But it is the deal with Microsoft that has drawn criticism, because to many it smacks of handing the company a de facto monopoly.
The deal does not formally require Mexico to use the 50,000 discounted copies of Microsoft Windows and Office software. But, Mr. Margain said in an interview, "we are not going to reject discounted software -- we are going to accept donations."
He added, "We are open to the generosity of any system that will work."
E-Mexico is one of Mr. Fox's most ambitious public works projects. Besides the public computing centers, it calls for the public school and public health systems to be brought online. With them will come millions of Mexicans whose first interaction with a computer may now be one set up for them by Microsoft.
The deal presents such huge advantages for Microsoft in many critics' minds that several members of Mexico's Congress have begun to question how it came about. They say the Fox administration may have simply signed on to a Microsoft-written proposal with no debate of its wisdom or its implications for Mexico's software industry.
"We are going to closely examine the Microsoft deal because it appears a good part of it places conditions that try to promote the use of Microsoft in the public schools and the payment of licenses and royalties," said Ildefonso Guajardo, an opposition member of Congress from the state of Nuevo Leon.
A spokesman for Microsoft said that the deal was reached "in open and public discussions" with e-Mexico officials.
Mr. Guajardo said that he and a group of legislators were considering introducing a bill to require the use of open-source software, like the Linux operating system, in the e-Mexico initiative, rather than proprietary software like Microsoft's, which is protected by copyrights and patents and must be paid for through license and upgrade fees.
The administration sees its deal with Microsoft as a donation. The critics say the gift is not free: they estimate that the fees Microsoft will collect, which are not specified in the contract, will exceed $30 million.
More broadly, lawmakers and software executives here say Mexico is yielding access to the e-Mexico project, and the millions of users it will soon bring online, on terms that are much too lenient. They say contracts to supply software and services should be put out to public bid.
Many Mexican technology companies hoped that Mr. Fox would use e-Mexico to help promote open-source software in the country. Only 4 million of Mexico's 100 million people now have Internet access, but the number is expected to grow rapidly, in part because of the Fox administration's determination to bridge the "digital divide" and have more of its citizens participate in the global economy. That presents an open field of new users with no preferences or habits to overcome.
Other Latin American nations, like Brazil, Argentina and Peru, have moved to promote the use of nonproprietary software, downloaded freely from the Internet, as a way to keep costs low and to create more opportunities for their own nascent software industries. Though Microsoft's Windows operating system still runs on about 9 of 10 desktop computers worldwide, Linux and other open-source programs have made inroads, especially in running servers.
The municipal government of Mexico City, run by opponents of Mr. Fox's National Action Party, has been phasing in open-source software to run services like auto registration.
But proponents of open-source computing complain that they are being left out of the e-Mexico project because they lack the resources to offer multimillion-dollar donations.
"I was hoping that Mexico, for once, would do the right thing and become a leader in the open-source software world," said Miguel de Icaza, a computer engineer and a prominent leader among Latin American open-source proponents. He is president of Ximian Gnome, which makes Linux-based application programs.
In the past, Microsoft has opposed government measures to promote or require use of open-source software on a variety of grounds, including that they undermine the protection needed to reward innovation.
Microsoft says its donation will help Mexico foster its national software industry by training Mexican engineers. Critics reply that what the engineers will be trained to do is to use Microsoft's technology.
"The effort here is basically to create a cadre of trained professionals who are oriented to Microsoft products," said Gary Chapman, who directs an open-source initiative at the University of Texas. "It's a very good strategy because it comes across as being concerned about the developing world. But at the same time, these countries could be making themselves independent of Microsoft with free software."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ildefonso Guajardo, left, a member of Mexico's Congress, wants e-Mexico to use open-source software. (Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MONOPOLIZATION (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (52%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); INTEL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (89%); BILL GATES (73%) GORI, GRAHAM; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002 



607 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Lost to Found, With Technology's Help 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
STRANGE. The two boys had been in the trailer park for a week. It was April, but it wasn't spring break. Why weren't they in school?
 A woman living in the trailer park, in Morgan Hill, Calif., thought there was something suspicious about the boys and the man who had brought them there. She befriended the younger boy, a sullen 4-year-old with brown hair who was prone to temper tantrums. But she could extract only his first name: Jonathan. 
 On impulse, she went on the Internet and found a Web site, www.missingkids.com. She clicked on Search for Child Photos and typed in Jonathan. A page of missing Jonathans appeared -- a toddler with a clip-on bow tie; a darkly handsome teenager; the boy from the trailer park, dressed in a tomato-red turtleneck with a glint in his eye.
That glint had dulled. Jonathan Kenderes and his brother, Andrew, had been taken nine months earlier, in July 2000, by their father, who had lost custody of his sons during a divorce. They had moved from trailer park to trailer park, never staying more than a few days.
The woman, who has asked to remain anonymous, called the police. That night, the father was arrested for kidnapping and custodial interference. The mother, Elizabeth Norton, flew out from New York the next morning.
"With technology, they were brought home," Ms. Norton said. "Without it, who knows where they would be now?"
Economists debate whether technology has increased productivity. Sociologists argue whether instant communication has improved or damaged the quality of life. But technology has had a quantifiable impact in at least one area: it is helping to bring home thousands of missing children.
The recovery rates for the most serious missing-children cases have jumped sharply in the last decade, an increase that experts attribute mostly to advances in computer and communication technology.
In 1989, about 62 percent of kidnapped children and runaways whose safety was considered seriously threatened were recovered safely, according to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, a nationwide clearinghouse, which handles 6,000 to 7,000 such cases a year. Now the recovery rate is about 93 percent. (The rate for all cases reported to the police, which includes those in which the child was merely separated from a parent for several hours, is more than 99 percent.)
The improvement is even greater among the 5 percent of cases in which the kidnapper is not a family member. Before 1990, the recovery rate for such cases was about 35 percent. Since then, the recovery rate has been about 90 percent, the center reported.
"Technology has made a difference at every juncture," said Ernie Allen, the chief executive of the center, a private agency that was started in 1984 and is financed by the Department of Justice and private contributions. 
"It has helped us to get information out to the public," Mr. Allen said. "It has enabled us to capture lead information. And it has enabled us to analyze that lead information and get it to law enforcement."
In other words, it helps to have magnets when looking through a haystack. Today, the magnets come in many forms, including e-mail messages, faxes, databases and Web sites (the center operates www .missingkids.com).
But technology helps in less obvious ways as well. Adobe Photoshop, for example, plays an important role in letting forensic artists more quickly and easily create an age-progressed photo -- an image of what a child who has been missing for years would look like today.
"Before Photoshop, they used to render the images pixel by pixel overnight," said Joe Mullins, a forensic artist at the center. "Now with functions like Liquefy, you can stretch an entire face instantaneously."
For most cases, speed is often of the essence. The longer a child is missing, the less likely the child will be recovered safely. A study in 1997 by the Department of Justice found that 74 percent of children who were kidnapped and murdered were killed within three hours of their abduction. 
Ten years ago, photos of missing children had to be sent by overnight mail to the center's headquarters outside Washington. The center would have posters printed, a process that could take a week. The posters then had to be distributed by mail to areas outside the immediate vicinity of the child's disappearance. 
"So effectively it might be 10 days, 2 weeks, 3 weeks before we were able to widely disseminate the photos of the missing child," said Mr. Allen, who has been with the center since its creation.
Today, a poster can be created within 30 minutes of an abduction. A photo of a missing child can be scanned and e-mailed within minutes of an initial report. The center can then make electronic posters within five minutes. E-mail alerts are sent to law enforcement agencies and volunteers to tell them to download the posters. The center also sends mass faxes using ChoicePoint, a company that provides fax dissemination services.
Searching is a numbers game -- the more information is disseminated, the better the chances of recovery. So saturation, as well as speed, is important.
The center has a database of 3.8 million businesses and agencies nationwide, including dentists' offices, highway rest stops and Wal-Mart stores, for its fax operation. The center blankets the geographic area where the child disappeared in the hope that somewhere, someone will recognize the child or abductor in the photo. Surprisingly, often somebody does. About one in six recovered children is located as a result of someone in the general public recognizing a photograph.
On Nov. 2, 2001, a nurse at the Harris County Health Clinic in Baytown, Tex., saw an adult come in with an infant to request treatment. The nurse recognized the abductor from a fax alert; the infant had been taken a month earlier by a friend of the mother. The nurse called the police and the abductor was arrested.
Technology has been effective in pushing photos out to the public; it has also made it easier for the public to go to the photos.
The site run by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has more than 2,500 photos and profiles of missing children from around the world. Supported by Sun Microsystems, Computer Associates and other companies, it has played a role in the recovery of hundreds of children. Runaways, who account for about 75 percent of missing-children cases covered by the center, often see their photos and return home. 
In other cases, the Web site has seemingly pushed the stars into alignment. In 1998, a police investigator in Puerto Rico had suspicions about a 7-year-old girl who had been removed from her home because of suspected child abuse. He logged on to the missing-children site and painstakingly scrolled through hundreds of photographs. But he kept coming back to a photo of a baby because of a purplish birthmark above her mouth. 
The toddler was Crystal Anzaldi, who was abducted in 1990 from her home in San Diego while her parents were sleeping. She had been taken to Puerto Rico by her abductor. 
"Before technology, before the Internet, before connectivity, that child was unrecoverable," Mr. Allen said. "That officer in San Juan would have no way to determine that is a missing child."
Even years after a child disappears, technology can help keep a case alive. Mr. Mullins and other forensic artists work in a corner on the second floor of the center's headquarters.
To create age-progressed images, they electronically manipulate a photo of the long-missing child and combine it with a photo of an older relative or one from a library of 23,000 anonymous portraits donated by school photography companies.
A decade ago, the age-progressed pictures could take days to create. Today, with Adobe Photoshop, the artists can turn out an age-progressed image in about four hours. On the monitor screens, the faces stretch and melt into each other like colorful digital putty.
To date, 320 children have been recovered using age-progressed photos. Often it is a small feature in the photo that jogs a viewer's memory. "It's amazing how people pick up on the little facial details," Mr. Mullins said. "The shape of the nose, or the corner of the mouth." 
A sadder role for the forensic artists is to recreate the face of a dead child, using morgue photos or skulls that have been recovered. 
Last year, after a teenage boy's remains were discovered in the Nevada desert, his head pierced by a bullet, an artist used the skull to construct a facial image. A man whose son had run away years ago called the center after he saw the image on television. DNA tests proved it was indeed his son.
While technology had not brought the boy back alive, it did provide some comfort to the father. 
"He was able to bury his son and get on with his life," Mr. Allen said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SOUGHT -- The Web site of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children includes a searchable database of more than 2,500 photographs and profiles.; PASSED TIME -- Images of long-missing children are created by merging old photos with those of relatives or others. Jeanine Barnwell was abducted in 1985 at age 3; Mark Himebaugh was kidnapped at age 10 in 1980. (National Center for Missing and Exploited Children)(pg. G4); FORENSIC ARTIST -- Joe Mullins uses Photoshop to create age-progressed images of children. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAILER PARKS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); MISSING PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PARENTAL KIDNAPPING (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ARRESTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); SOCIOLOGY (50%) MISSING PERSONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR MISSING & EXPLOITED CHILDREN (84%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



608 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Bypassing the Carriers, a Burg Goes Broadband 

BYLINE:  By PETER WAYNER 

DATELINE: CUMBERLAND, Md. 

 BODY:
DURING the Civil War, Cumberland built a fort on the hill overlooking the center of town as a bulwark against the Confederate forces just across the Potomac. Today, the city is trying to use the same high ground to strategic advantage in a different campaign: keeping pace with the Internet age.
 After years of waiting for the phone company, Verizon, to offer high-speed Internet service here, the local government wants to take on the job. And the hill above downtown, now the site of Fort Hill High School, has already proved to be an opportune spot for a crucial station relaying Internet traffic. 
 The quandary facing Cumberland, population 21,000, and surrounding Allegany County is not unusual in rural America. Businesses and residents here in western Maryland, far from any urban center, are so scattered that upgrading the telephone system's copper wires to offer the high-speed data service known as D.S.L., or Digital Subscriber Line, is prohibitively expensive. High-capacity lines like T1's and DS3's are sometimes available, but at prices steeply higher than those offered in big cities and technology corridors. 
Verizon and other phone companies prefer to invest where population density guarantees a return on that kind of investment. (One cable company, owned by Charter Communications, offers high-speed Internet service to homes in Cumberland and has started taking orders for businesses but does not serve surrounding areas of the county.)
As it happens, the foundation is already in place for a system that may provide the answer. In 1996, four network administrators from the county government established the first link in a wireless network that has come to encompass the schools, the police, the fire department, the libraries and nonprofit organizations like the Y.M.C.A. Built at an estimated cost of $320,000, largely through grants, the network carries traffic to more than 85 buildings and 4,000 individual workstations. Now attention is focused on extending the network, known as Allconet, to serve homes and businesses.
"We're doing such a successful job with the nonprofits," said Beth Thomas, one of the network administrators who organized the effort. "We want to help the businesses that are already here and use it as a way to attract other businesses."
Making the leap from providing services to the government to providing for everyone is as much a political challenge as a technical one. The county is, in essence, going into competition with Verizon, even if the phone company is not aggressively pursuing the business. "I'm a little surprised that Verizon hasn't come after us yet," said Jeffrey Blank, another of the network's organizers.
That worry is not unfounded. When the city of Bristol, Va., grew tired of waiting for fast Internet connections and rolled out its own wireless broadband service to residents, the state's telecommunications companies protested and the Virginia legislature passed a law effectively forbidding municipalities to provide Internet services. Similar battles are taking place in several other states.
Bristol sued the legislature, arguing that the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 prevented the states from banning "any entity" from providing telecommunications services. Last year the city convinced a federal district court that it qualified as such an entity and should be free to offer services. The state is appealing. 
"If local governments are not free to fill some of these gaps, what we'll see happening is what happened in the electric power industry," said Jim Baller, a Washington-based lawyer who represents Bristol as well as the American Public Power Association, an alliance of more than 2,000 community-owned utilities. Electrification "flourished in the major centers," he added, "but it took government in the most rural areas." 
Link Hoewing, an assistant vice president for Internet policy at Verizon Communications, declined to discuss Cumberland's situation in detail but defended his company's efforts. "About 55 percent of our customers are connected to a D.S.L.-capable office," he said. "We're trying to ramp it up and sell it as fast as we can, where it makes economic sense to do so." 
Phone companies argue that it is unfair for governments to compete with them. "They clearly have access to government revenues," Mr. Hoewing said. "We have to go to Wall Street and ask our investors."
Casper R. Taylor Jr., Allegany County's representative in the Maryland legislature, where he is speaker of the House of Delegates, disagrees. He calls the new wireless network "salvation."
Mr. Taylor helped to secure $2 million for improving and extending the county's wireless network in the next state budget to make rural townships "viable as economic communities for the future." 
Mr. Blank, the network administrator, said that the county would supply another $600,000 and that he expected the remaining $2.1 million to come from the federal E-Rate program, which redirects some billing revenue from phone companies to help wire schools and libraries.
David Farber, a former chief technologist for the Federal Communications Commission and professor of computer science at the University of Pennsylvania, agrees that local governments will need to take part in extending broadband availability. "Cities and towns provide highways, sewers and infrastructure," he said. "In a world where it's pretty clear that telecommunications companies aren't in any rush to provide infrastructure, it's rational for the cities to get into the business." 
The structure of the network in Cumberland may temper opposition. Mr. Blank said that rather than sell broadband service directly to homes and businesses, the county planned to sell some of the wireless network's capacity in bulk to Internet service providers to resell, much the way county landfills are made available to private garbage-hauling services. 
Mr. Blank said the goal was to make the wireless network and Internet connection available to commercial providers at 80 percent of what it would cost to establish similar links through conventional means. That would enable the companies in turn to offer high-speed service locally at a low rate, he said. (Residential customers typically pay $50 a month for D.S.L. service.)
In the end, though, the vital issue is availability. "We wouldn't be doing this," said Ms. Thomas, the network administrator, "if they were providing the service in the first place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALERT ANTENNAE -- After wiring local government, officials in Cumberland, Md., hope to provide high-speed Internet access to homes and businesses. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) Map of Maryland highlights Cumberland: Administrators of a wireless network in Cumberland, Md., hope that it will attract business there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (77%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: WAYNER, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (93%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) COMBERLAND (MD)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



609 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
Joy and Blues In Florida's Piney Woods

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
Five years ago an extraordinary cache of manuscripts by Zora Neale Hurston, perhaps the most important black female writer of the first half of the 20th century, was discovered in the Library of Congress. Hurston, who was most productive during the 1930's and 1940's, was a student of cultural anthropology and a collector of folk tales. As a novelist and short story writer, she was a chronicler of black life in the rural South, where she grew up.
 Controversial in her time, and criticized by many black intellectuals -- including Richard Wright -- for perpetuating stereotypes, Hurston died in penniless obscurity in 1960. Her reputation was revived in the 1970's, largely by the writer Alice Walker, who recognized the authenticity of Hurston's character portrayals. Today, works like her 1937 novel, "Their Eyes Were Watching God," are widely read. 
 Less well known are Hurston's plays, which include "Mule Bone," written with Langston Hughes, which was presented by Lincoln Center Theater in 1991. The previous year, "Spunk," an adaptation by George C. Wolfe of Hurston's short stories, appeared at the Public Theater. But the 10 unpublished plays uncovered at the Library of Congress were a surprise. One of them, "Polk County," which lasted more than four hours during its first public reading in December 2000, has now been cut, shaped and wrestled into an uproariously gladdening production at the Arena Stage here. 
Hurston wrote "Polk County" ostensibly with a collaborator, Dorothy Waring, who was married to a theater producer and who was interested in developing a Broadway show. According to background material supplied by the Arena, not much is known about Waring's contribution to the play, but the material was certainly Hurston's. It is set in the 1920's, in a sawmill camp in central Florida, a place that was much like Eatonville, the black-governed town that was Hurston's childhood home. (Polk County is a real place in Florida, near Orlando; a program note says that the second-largest private employer of county residents these days is Walt Disney World.)
The play depicts a small society of poor people with rules of decorum, a hierarchy of social influence and simple, shared values. And though rivalries, jealousies and the arrival of a newcomer create a semblance of plot, "Polk County" is more than anything a celebratory and admiring community portrait. Its language is a rollicking vernacular, full of affectionate yearning, elaborate verbal challenges, colorfully elocuted superstitions and the hyperbolic bouts of insult known as the dozens. Even the names of the characters -- among them Leafy Lee, Big Sweet, Dicey, Nunkie, Sop-the-Bottom, Boxcar, Do-Dirty and Maudella -- testify to a certain descriptive glee.
The one white character is the mill boss, a marginal figure but not in the lives of the men who work for him and the women who care for the men. The economic power he holds over them all is a bonding agent for the community, and that is really his function in the play, which is not about the curse of deep-seated racism, but about the joyful and fertile local culture that rises in spite of it. 
A significant aspect of that culture is music -- the blues, gospel and folk tunes that were nurtured in places just like this and congealed into an American idiom. One of the characters, a much pursued bachelor with the evocative name My Honey (Clinton Derricks-Carroll), is a guitarist and blues singer of local repute, and the play provides several opportunities for him to perform.
In addition, a highly skilled quartet, with an eccentric instrumentation (a trombonist who doubles on a Jamaican drum and a harmonica player, in addition to a pianist and guitarist) is parked in a corner of the stage. (The Arena's main auditorium is constructed for theater-in-the-round, even if the performance floor is square.) Their sound is not only authentic and joyous -- the music director Stephen Wade has collected a variety of songs into a marvelously evocative period score -- but to ears accustomed to blaring Broadway, deliciously restrained and not overblown. The music so belongs within the narrative that the musicians might as well be characters; theatergoers who remember the inventive musical "James Joyce's 'The Dead' " will recognize a similar dynamic here.
The director, Kyle Donnelly -- who, with Cathy Madison, the literary manager for the Arena, cut and shaped the original script into a 2 1/2-hour show -- has staged a lively production, full of dancing, fighting, arguing, posturing and courting-and-sparking on a set by Thomas Lynch that leaves plenty of room on the stage for all the physical activity; its most prominent features (an enormous wheel inside the sawmill, for example) are planted alongside the ascending staircases in the audience. 
The cast is full of strong, melodic voices and charismatic personalities. Notably these include Gin Hammond as Leafy Lee, the fragile-looking and light-skinned beauty from New York who arrives in the camp to soak up the blues and proves to have both spine and talent; the thrum-voiced David Toney as Lonnie, a loving man fearful of his woman's infidelity; Mr. Derricks-Carroll, whose My Honey loses his bachelor heart to Leafy Lee and whose honeyed manner (and singing) wins her in turn; and Perri Gaffney as Dicey Long, the villain of the piece, whose mean spirit stems from a long life of disappointment.
In a late scene that perfectly illustrates the depth of Hurston's compassion for her characters, Dicey, onstage alone, looks into a mirror and delivers a sorrowful monologue about life's unfairness:
"How come I got to look like I do?" she says, in part. "Why couldn't I have that long straight hair, like Big Sweet got, and that Leafy. They own looks like a horse's mane, and mine looks like drops of rain."
Ms. Gaffney, who has made Dicey's brittleness amusing and even potentially dear, resists the self-pity that the speech invites, and as a result Dicey is reclaimed in the audience's eyes. It is an extraordinary scene, for the playwright and the performer.
The show would not be anywhere nearly so successful, however, were it not for Harriett D. Foy, who plays Big Sweet, the combative, strong-hearted woman who is the unofficial mayor and sheriff of the sawmill camp. She is Lonnie's woman, and she is willing to use any method of intimidation to ensure that stays the case (though Lonnie has his doubts); she defends everything that belongs to her with the same vehemence. Indeed, the play opens with her knocking the tar out of the good-for-nothing Nunkie (Rudy Roberson), who evidently swindled Lonnie out of six dollars. Ms. Foy's stocky build and unusual, richly textured singing voice give Big Sweet a swagger that can both impersonate manliness and effect a salty femininity. Hers is a large, earthy, bold and highly engaging performance in a terrific woman's role.
"Polk County" runs through May 12, and because of commitments by cast members it will not be extended; this is a shame, but the main story here is that the Arena has given the theater world a gift. "Polk County" is not only a significant contribution to dramatic literature; it brings a new musical sound to the theater and welcome opportunities for black actors.
Yes, it is inevitable that this cut version of the script has its holes; several characters onstage don't get their stories told, for example. But as this production proves, that is a creative challenge that can be met. Theatergoers don't leave the Arena feeling cheated. 
Though the show is a large one requiring significant financial resources, it would stand up, rather sturdily, to other stagings; other theaters and producers are hereby encouraged to take note.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clinton Derricks-Carroll and Harriett D. Foy in Zora Neale Hurston's "Polk County." (Scott Suchman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COUNTIES (76%); FOLKLORE (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); SAW MILLS (69%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%) ARENA STAGE (WASHINGTON, DC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%)

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; HURSTON, ZORA NEALE (1891-1960); DONNELLY, KYLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: POLK COUNTY (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



610 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Forecast For Growth In Europe Rises a Bit 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 24 

 BODY:
The euro zone economy is bouncing back, but several countries, like Germany, need to work harder at balancing their budgets, the European Commission said today.
 In its twice-yearly assessment of the economy, the commission said it expected the 12-member euro zone to grow 1.4 percent in 2002, higher than the 1.3 percent rate it predicted last fall. It left its 2003 growth forecast unchanged at 2.9 percent. 
 Private consumption has been the driving force behind the return to positive growth this year, the commission said. "The recovery in the euro area could be even stronger than expected as confidence is on an upward trend," the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, Pedro Solbes, said at a news conference. But he warned of uncertainties, like the price of oil, that could undermine the recovery. 
The commission expects an average oil price of $23.80 a barrel for 2002 and $24.10 in 2003. Mr. Solbes said the United States was helping growth gather pace in the euro zone, instead of dragging it down. "Global economic interdependence could now be at work in a positive sense," he said.
The European Commission expects the United States economy to grow by 2.7 percent this year. Inflation in the euro zone is expected to remain around 2 percent this year and next, but wage increases could push that higher, the commission warned.
Germany and Portugal were picked out for criticism again for the size of their budget deficit. Both countries are still close to the maximum 3 percent deficit level permitted in the European stability and growth pact, the commission said. But Mr. Solbes said Germany, which escaped an official warning earlier this year, was already making progress to reduce its deficit. 
Germany is expected to record a deficit of 2.8 percent in 2002 and 2.1 percent in 2003. Portugal, which also recently avoided being sent an official warning, is seen amassing a deficit of 2.6 percent in 2002 and 2.5 percent in 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMPTION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION 

PERSON: SOLBES, PEDRO; MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (88%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY; PORTUGAL

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



611 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: At Ground Zero 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Rich Firms, Poor Ideas for Towers Site," by Herbert Muschamp (Critic's Notebook, April 18): 
 Instead of criticizing the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation for expanding upon the principles put forth by New York New Visions, Mr. 
Muschamp should be applauding that the design community is finally being heard. 
In the recent past, architects and planners have had little influence over public policy either because we were not asked for input or because it was unclear who spoke for us. Organized by the American Institute of Architects, New York New Visions developed so that the talents of 21 professional organizations could begin to speak collectively and provide guidance in this time of need. 
Now that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is in place, I am pleased that, in addition to social, economic, legal and political concerns, design and planning issues are also at the forefront of the discussion.

MARK STRAUSS
New York, April 18, 2002

The writer, an architect, is chairman of long-term planning, New York New Visions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



612 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

PERSON: Prof. Jeffrey D. Sachs 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Cockeyed Optimist Professes the Dismal Science

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
THE Earth Institute at Columbia University combines the latest biology, population science and climate research. The institute's new director, Prof. Jeffrey D. Sachs, happily admits to being 200-plus years behind the times in his world view.
"I basically feel like an 18th-century Enlightenment optimist," he said. 
 Is this a problem? 
 Administrators at Columbia don't think so. They all but crowed from the rooftops at their success in luring Professor Sachs, a 47-year-old economist, away from Harvard earlier this month. Professor Sachs sees 18th-century thinking as a strength, and a means of avoiding despair, in his work on the problems of poverty, environmental degradation and disease in developing nations.
"There was a belief that the world could achieve peace, that the world could achieve shared prosperity, that reason matters and that technology gives an opportunity for human betterment," he said, describing the intellectual precepts that swept through Europe in the 18th century. "I believe in all of those things."
Professor Sachs, who entered Harvard as an undergraduate in 1972 and was a tenured professor there with a Ph.D. just over a decade later, also made his reputation in part by returning to an older pattern in academia. He's a hands-on economist, more likely to be spotted in the field than the ivory tower. 
Instead of simply studying hyperinflation in Bolivia in the 1980's or dictating a cure from afar, he went there to help the government solve the problem. He worked with the Mongolian government in privatizing the country's herd of 24 million yaks. In New York, he'll wear a second hat as an adviser to Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations on global poverty issues. 
"I learned a long time ago that I can't do good theoretical work if I'm not doing practical work," he said. "My imagination is not good enough to do pure theory without seeing the real facts on the ground."
There is also a kind of old-fashioned universality to the Earth Institute, Dr. Sachs said. Although the components are technical, from geology to social science, a common thread connects them all to the idea that human activity and the life of the planet are intertwined.
To that mix, Professor Sachs said he planned to weave in several other threads that he worked on at Harvard; in particular, how environmental conditions and public health affect economic growth. 
CONSIDER malaria. Mostly it has been treated as a public health issue, a matter of medical treatment and insect control. Professor Sachs said he became convinced working in Africa in the 1990's that the effects went further. Gradually, he said, he realized that the traditional measurements had missed the forest for the trees. Whole bands of the earth's economy could be divided into disease zones.
"It was an example of the fact that if you don't understand the ecological base of the place that you're working on, you won't really understand deeply the problems," he said. "Malaria impedes foreign investment, stops new industries from developing, hinders migration, all the things which really make for long-term economic growth."
Professor Sachs's upbringing in the Detroit area probably also helped tilt his mind toward the underdogs of economic life, the people he calls "the bottom billion" of the world's population, who struggle just to survive. His father, Theodore Sachs, was a social critic, a lawyer and an advocate for organized labor who believed that engagement in the issues of the day was crucial. 
"I grew up at a table where public policy was the dinner fare every day, and spent a lot of time watching my dad in court and giving speeches, Dr. Sachs said. "He was a big inspiration." 
Leaving Harvard, though, will not be easy. He met his wife, Dr. Sonia Ehrlich Sachs, there. His daughter Lisa, 21, is an undergraduate there. His son, Adam, 16, wants to finish his senior year of high school in Cambridge.
The other Dr. Sachs, a pediatrician who recently went back to school for a master's degree in public health -- at Harvard, naturally -- wants to finish the next academic year, too. So Professor Sachs will commute for now. 
But in a way he has been a commuter for his whole career -- mostly to places of desperation, disaster and chaos. In the last three years, as an adviser to the World Health Organization, he has been visiting some of the world's poorest countries to study their primary public health care systems. His wife became his partner in those labors, he said, acting as a kind of tour guide through her knowledge of medicine and the public health vocabulary. 
The conclusion he has been driven to, he said, is that however much the world is divided into rich and poor, the similarities still outweigh the differences. His sunny demeanor darkens even in discussing people who generalize about the propensity of a nation or a people to war or peace or virtue.
"I share another part of the Enlightenment idea, which is that we're all together in this," he said. "I deeply dislike it when people say, 'Oh, those people believe this, or that society is terrorist' or whatever. I've worked in all parts of the world and engaged with people of all faiths and cultures. I know the vast majority of people share common aspirations." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: JEFFREY D. SACHS (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MALARIA (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

JOHNSON, KIRK; SACHS, JEFFREY D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) BOLIVIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); MONGOLIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



613 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: The Failures of Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By Ernest F. Hollings; Ernest F. Hollings is a Democratic senator for South Carolina.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In their eagerness to move production offshore, the National Association of Manufacturers, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business all join in a chant of "free trade, fast track." The retailers who make a bigger profit on imported goods cry "free trade, fast track," and newspapers, who make money from retail advertising, editorialize for free trade. But these cries are not really for making trade free -- they are for transferring power over trade to the executive branch and favored corporate interests. This should not be the way economic policy works in a democracy.
 The Bush administration contends that trade agreements are passing us by because the president doesn't have fast-track authority. This is baloney. During the 90's we entered into nearly 200 international commercial agreements without fast track, including the Caribbean Basin Initiative and agreements with sub-Saharan Africa, Jordan and Vietnam. 
 Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution, it is not the president but Congress that shall "regulate commerce with foreign nations." But the fix is in. The fast-track bill will be called in the Senate only when the White House knows it has the 60 votes necessary to invoke cloture. Debate will therefore be limited. No one will listen to it anyway because they'll know the vote is fixed. Fast track will be passed, and the United States will continue to lose business.
This failure to protect American workers is of relatively recent vintage. Since American independence, controls on trade gave government a way to shelter industries from foreign competition so they could grow or restructure. Tariffs were also an important source of government revenue. (There was no income tax until 1913.) President Lincoln protected steel, President Franklin Roosevelt instituted protectionism for agriculture and President Eisenhower for oil. The industrial giant of America was built on careful protectionism.
This changed after World War II. We were the world's leading industrial power. Devastated countries in Europe and Asia were given aid, equipment and expertise to rebuild -- and the cold war was won. Fundamental to this victory was the American treatment of foreign trade as foreign aid. We set an example by opening up the American market. But our competition refused to follow suit. Instead, they protected their manufacturers.
As our competitors began to prosper, American managers were learning a different lesson from their experiences with overseas rebuilding. They learned that moving work overseas could save money. Labor costs in manufacturing can be 30 percent of sales. A company that retains its executive offices in America but moves its production to a low-wage area could save as much as 20 percent in sales volume. Thus, a corporation with $500 million in sales could increase its pretax profits by $100 million. Accordingly, manufacturers have been leaving the United States in droves. Little South Carolina has lost 53,900 textile jobs since the free trade agreement with Mexico. Since the 1979 Tokyo Round agreements -- in which fast-track authority took on its current form -- America has lost more than four million manufacturing jobs, or 20 percent of our manufacturing work force. Giving fast-track authority to President Bush will only worsen this problem.
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, hundreds of millions of people have entered the world's work force ready to accept a minimal standard of living. In contrast, America continues to protect or raise its standard of living with requirements for a minimum wage, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, safe workplaces and machinery, clean air and water, plant closing notice and unpaid parental leave. A plant can move to Mexico and find a work force with none of these requirements and an average individual wage that is 11 percent of the American equivalent. 
Today, more than half of what we consume as a nation is imported. Recently I rode Acela, the fast train from Washington to New York that was made in Canada. Advanced technology, which was supposed to be the motor of domestic growth, is now imported. We have a deficit in the balance of trade in semiconductors, according to the International Trade Commission. My insurance policy is administered in Dublin, my light bill in Bangalore, India.
 T his mantra of "free trade, fast track" must not keep us from seeing the drawbacks of simply allowing merchants and whoever is president determine the shape of our nation. We have done very well for more than two centuries by having substantial democratic control of commercial relations. There is every reason to continue with it.
Years ago, Akio Morita of Sony admonished third world nations that they had to develop strong manufacturing sectors to become nation-states. Turning to me, he said, "Senator, the world power that loses its manufacturing capacity will cease to be a world power." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); RETAILERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); TAX REFORM (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (84%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%)

PERSON: HOLLINGS, ERNEST F (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



614 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Communal activities, from weddings to football, add value to shared knowledge.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies" and is writing a book on the increasing importance of aesthetics in the economy and society. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
WHAT do weddings, the Super Bowl, presidential inaugurations, graduation ceremonies and political rallies like those that took place in Washington last week have in common?
 They're all communal activities, with lots of emotional and symbolic content. But they can also serve a rational purpose, argues Michael Suk-Young Chwe, an economist in the political science department at the University of California at Los Angeles. 
 These activities help solve "coordination problems," in which taking action requires knowing that other people know what you know and that you know that they know that you know. 
When a president is inaugurated, for instance, the content of the ceremony itself is important, but not as important as the fact that everyone present or watching on television knows everyone else is seeing the same inauguration. Everyone knows who the president is, and knows that everyone else also knows. That common knowledge is essential to the legitimacy of the office.
"I am more likely to support an authority or social system, either existing or insurgent, the more others support it," Professor Chwe writes in "Rational Ritual" (Princeton University Press, 2001). "Public rituals, rallies and ceremonies generate the necessary common knowledge. A public ritual is not just about the transmission of meaning from a central source to each member of an audience; it is also about letting audience members know what other audience members know."
Many forms of social status depend on common knowledge. Marriage, for instance, isn't just about the relationship of two people. Other people have to recognize the couple as a couple.
"What it means to be married is that other people treat you like you're married," Professor Chwe says, noting that two people who never see each other may still be regarded by others as married. (Conversely, two people who consider themselves a couple may be denied recognition by others.)
The need for common knowledge means a wedding is more than the exchange of vows by two individuals. "When you go to a wedding, it's not just about you seeing the two people getting married. It's also very important that you know that other people know," Professor Chwe says. That's why the vows themselves matter less than the ceremony.
"You might have a New Age reading or you can have a very traditional Catholic wedding. But having everyone being together in a wedding is extremely important, regardless of what is said," Professor Chwe notes. "You'd never have a wedding by just sending a fax to everybody."
The importance of common knowledge can explain some otherwise puzzling cultural activities. This year's Super Bowl featured tributes to the heroes and victims of Sept. 11, for instance, not because those events had anything to do with football but because the Super Bowl is a huge national ritual.
"The Super Bowl is the best ritual we have in the United States," Professor Chwe says. "It's the one thing that everyone watches, and everyone knows everyone else is watching. It's a forum. It's a common-knowledge generator."
Although companies advertise on the Super Bowl for all sorts of reasons, he argues that Super Bowl ads are particularly valuable for products that need to generate some kind of common knowledge.
Some are goods whose value increases as more people adopt them (or, in the case of computers, as more people adopt the same operating system). That's one reason the famous Super Bowl ad for Macintosh in 1984 was so important.
It's also why the Discover card was introduced with six ads during the 1986 Super Bowl. A credit card is good only if enough retailers accept it, which will happen only if enough consumers use it, which in turn depends on how many retailers accept it -- a "network externality" that depends on common knowledge.
Other products, like cars, sneakers or soft drinks, use ads to create brand associations, adding symbolic characteristics to their products. Those characteristics may be valuable if only the buyer knows about them, but they're worth more if they're widely understood.
Ads on the Super Bowl or another show with a large audience help generate the necessary common knowledge. For goods that are consumed privately -- Professor Chwe points to Duracell and Energizer batteries -- there's no reason to pay a premium for common knowledge. Ad dollars are better spent in more concentrated ways.
Conversely, advertising to large markets where audience members are unaware of each other isn't as valuable. The lack of common knowledge may explain, for instance, why a high-traffic Web site like Yahoo still has trouble getting the sort of ad dollars a TV show with the same audience would draw. Because Yahoo users are unaware of each other and may in fact be looking at different parts of the site, Yahoo doesn't generate common knowledge.
Professor Chwe's work, like his own academic career, bridges several social sciences. Traditionally, scholars have tended to think of rationality and culture as separate worlds, he says. "People who are interested in rationality should be interested in markets," he adds. "People who are interested in culture should look at rituals. I don't think there really are these different worlds."
Neither a world of "atomistic individuals" nor a world of purely social groupings exists. Effective social institutions, including cultural rituals and economic practices, allow individuals to cooperate for mutual benefit.
"Even narrowly rational Homo economicus, when solving coordination problems, must form common knowledge," Professor Chwe writes. And, whatever their other benefits, that function alone is enough to make many rituals valuable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Celebrating a Super Bowl victory. The national ritual is a national forum, too. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LITERATURE (67%); TRENDS (67%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; CHWE, MICHAEL SUK-YOUNG 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); RATIONAL RITUAL (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



615 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Declines on Homes And Durable Goods 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods and sales of new houses fell in March, reports from the Commerce Department showed today, indications that the pace of economic growth was slowing.
 Orders for typically expensive items like automobiles, computers and machinery declined 0.6 percent, to $173.4 billion, after a 2.7 percent increase in February. 
 Purchases of new single-family homes fell 3.1 percent, to an annual pace of 878,000, a separate report said. It was the second decline this year.
The durable goods report for March was unusual in that it excluded computer semiconductors, which typically account for about 4 percent of orders. Totals for all durable goods in the previous two months were adjusted to omit chips.
Demand fell for machinery, computers, motor vehicles and communications equipment. Orders excluding transportation equipment fell 0.1 percent in March, the fourth straight decline, after falling 1 percent in February.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Signs of Strength in Some Regions"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve Board's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Residential real estate was strong, and improve-ments were reported in tourism, consumer spending and mining. San Francisco -- There was slow, steady growth in the economy. Commercial real estate continued to weaken, while home sales were fairly strong. Chicago -- Consumer spending was mixed. Home sales and construction slowed. There were reports of more hiring. Cleveland -- The economy improved, but some businesses voiced concern that the rate of growth had slowed from its pace earlier in the year. Boston -- The economy was mixed, with strong growth in residential real estate. Retail sales were unchanged from a year earlier. New York -- Consumer confidence was up, and retail sales were close to forecasts. The office market in Manhattan remained slow. Philadelphia -- The economy improved, with manufacturers reporting increased orders and shipments. Job cuts were slowing. Richmond, Va. -- Manufacturers orders and shipments increased for the third consecutive month. Retailers reported an increase in sales. Atlanta -- Businesses were generally optimistic. Retail sales were higher, and the residential real estate market was strong. St. Louis -- The economy picked up considerably, with manufacturers expanding production and hiring more workers as orders increased. Kansas City, Mo. -- The economy, while still somewhat weak, showed signs of improvement. Retail sales and residential real estate were strong. Dallas -- The economy started to rebound. Manufacturing and retail sales showed signs of a recovery, but businesses' outlook remains cautious. (Source: Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DURABLE GOODS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



616 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: After Welfare, Working Poor Still Struggle, Report Finds 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 24 

 BODY:
The welfare rolls in seven Midwestern states shrunk by two-thirds over the past eight years, but many of the two million former aid recipients remain in poverty, struggling to pay utility and grocery bills as they juggle part-time, temporary jobs, according to a report released here today.
 Five of the seven states showed an increase in welfare caseloads in 2001, with Indiana's and Wisconsin's rolls growing by about 13 percent, the study shows, suggesting that the deep declines of previous years may have had as much to do with the buoyant economy as with welfare-to-work programs. In all the states, those who left welfare have faced barriers to employment including child care, transportation and educational deficits, the report says. 
 "The bottom line is things have gone very well, but the job is not finished," Jennifer Phillips of the Joyce Foundation said in a news teleconference announcing the results. "The majority of welfare recipients in the Midwest did what the nation asked in 1996: they went to work. The next challenge is to keep former welfare recipients working and moving up so they no longer need government assistance."
Focused on the Midwest, which has led the nation with state programs to move people from public assistance to payrolls, the report pulls together 24 studies, by a variety of academics, consultants and research organizations, most of them financed by the Joyce Foundation, an institution based in Chicago that supports programs to reduce poverty and violence and improve schools.
As Congress begins debate on reauthorizing the landmark 1996 federal welfare law, the report calls for a new safety net to support the working poor, with more investment in education and training.
The report shows that Illinois and Wisconsin reduced their welfare rolls by more than 70 percent each, while Minnesota and Iowa cut theirs by a third, and Indiana by 11 percent. Of those leaving welfare, the portion heading into employment ranged from just under 50 percent in Minnesota to 84 percent in one study in Wisconsin.
Though programs vary throughout the region -- Wisconsin and Michigan have been strictest about pushing people into jobs, while Illinois and Minnesota are among the most flexible -- the study did not find clear patterns of results based on the different approaches. Instead, there were consistent themes: salaries below the federal poverty line of $14,630 for a family of three, and trouble paying routine bills were common.
Researchers found average incomes of $12,000 in Iowa and Ohio and $14,000 in Indiana and Minnesota. In Michigan, 49 percent of those who worked full time, 88 percent of those on welfare and 71 percent of those combining welfare and wages remained in poverty.
Half the former recipients in some states said they were unable to buy food, pay rent or pay utility bills, and a similar number reported their phone service being cut off for more than 24 hours. Several studies found that 1 in 10 former recipients had been evicted or become homeless. 
"They're barely better off," Ellen Aberding, president of the Joyce Foundation, said of those who left welfare for work. "They really need the additional supports that have been put in place in some states to keep them where they are and to bump them up."
But Douglas Besharov, a welfare expert at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington research organization, said that the research remained unclear as to why the rolls had shrunk so much, and that redefining the law as a post-welfare poverty program was "moving the goal posts in the middle of the game."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Welfare in the Midwest"After huge drops in welfare rolls in the Midwest during the 90's, the number of welfare recipients has leveled off or edged back up in these five Midwestern states. Graph tracking the number of welfare recipients in the states of Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana and Iowa. Figures are for January of each year except September 2001. (Source: Administration for Children and Families) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; CHILD CARE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN & FAMILIES (59%) JOYCE FOUNDATION 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) OHIO; MICHIGAN; INDIANA; ILLINOIS; WISCONSIN; IOWA; MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



617 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor Is His Own Inspiration; 
James Trumpets His Record and Newark's Future

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 24 

 BODY:
Three days from now, Mayor Sharpe James will push a dummy plunger and watch as three hulking structures disappear in a cloud of dust.
 The implosion of the Stella Wright Homes, once the shame of this famously blighted city, will mark the end of a troubled era in high-rise public housing here and pave the way for what is billed as a quite different vision: a sprawling $200 million collection of neo-colonial town houses, gracious parkland, a new high school and a library. 
 For the mayor, Saturday morning's demolition will serve as a fitting symbol of a political career that has seen Newark go from a byword for urban despair to an intriguing place positioned somewhere between the decay of the 70's and 80's and the renaissance Mr. James sees as his legacy.
On his watch, 40 brick behemoths have been dynamited, an ailing downtown has pulsed with new life, and thousands of homes have sprouted on a landscape once scarred by riots and abandonment. 
"When I became mayor in 1986, you couldn't say the word Newark without embarrassment," he said from the faded splendor of City Hall, an architectural showpiece that, like most of Newark, awaits restoration. "Today, people are proud to say they live in Newark. We've gone from urban blight to urban bright."
But 16 years after he unseated an four-term incumbent with the promise of boundless prosperity, the mayor most residents simply know as Sharpe is fending off a challenger who is wielding the same argument he used against Kenneth Gibson, Newark's first black mayor. Like Sharpe James in 1986, Mr. James's opponent, Cory Booker, says the current mayor has served long enough.
After three decades as a political mainstay in New Jersey's largest city, Mr. James is clearly unnerved by his younger, better-financed opponent, a 32-year-old Rhodes scholar who arrived here in 1996, promptly won a seat on the City Council and then cultivated a national reputation as an up-and-coming innovator. A proud, sometimes imperious man, Mr. James calls his rival disrespectful, and views his candidacy as an affront to the mayor's hard-fought victories.
"Cory Booker has done nothing for Newark," Mr. James said with contempt. "He has no record of achievement, no commitment to the people, no love for Newark."
Like Newark itself, the incumbent can be read in many ways, but no one doubts his love for the city. It is a mutual admiration, readily apparent whenever the 66-year-old mayor is on the street, where he is greeted with kisses, handshakes and countless requests for mayoral intervention.
"You've seen us through the good and the bad," said Martha Johnston, 74, as Mr. James worked a center for the elderly in the Central Ward one recent afternoon. "We're not going to let you down, not ever."
But Newark's by-the-bootstraps patriarch and most prominent defender is also an imperfect leader whose triumphs and stumbles mirror this city's harrowing downfall and wobbly rebirth.
"I don't know many people in this country who have sustained themselves through so much political turmoil," said Walter Fields, a campaign consultant and former head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in New Jersey. "He hasn't come through unscathed, but he managed to walk through the flames a survivor."
A fast-moving man with a gravelly voice and gap-toothed grin, Mr. James maintains his smile even when absorbing unpleasant news. In the early years of his administration, he took on the comics and columnists who treated Newark as a punching bag. He once called up Phil Donahue after the talk show host made disparaging remarks about the city. Mr. Donahue apologized on the air.
In the late 1990's, Mr. James kept his composure as a series of federal corruption investigations took aim at City Hall. Mr. James's chief of staff, the police director and two Council members were eventually convicted of wrongdoing, but the mayor was never indicted. He consolidated his power and went on to win a seat in the State Senate in addition to the mayoralty.
Mr. James is supremely confident in his achievements and begins every public appearance with a list of cheery facts and figures: crime down 52 percent; 30,000 new jobs; and a downtown arts center and minor league baseball stadium that many critics said would never be built.
"Newark is not heaven on earth," he said, strolling through his City Hall office, its walls lined with scores of groundbreaking shovels. "We still have our problems, but I think what I've done is an inspiration to every mayor in America."
Mr. James's battle against Mr. Booker is a battle between a political leader molded during the civil rights years of the 60's and one able to reap that era's rewards. Mr. Booker graduated from Stanford, Oxford and Yale Universities, and by his own account, never faced discrimination or economic adversity.
By contrast, Mr. James's mother, Beulah Fluker, raised her two sons alone in a racially divided city, their home a cold-water apartment with a potbellied stove and a backyard outhouse.
"The thing about Sharpe that appeals to so many of us is he struggled to get out of poverty, got himself an education and fought to find acceptance by doing the right thing," said Representative Donald M. Payne, a Newark Democrat who first met Mr. James in the mid-1960's. "He comes from the first generation of black men who were privileged to go to college."
Mr. James, who was born in Jacksonville, Fla., never knew his father, who died of pneumonia before his birth. Ms. Fluker fled an abusive second husband and took her sons north, eventually settling in central Newark. 
After serving in the Army and graduating from Montclair State College, Mr. James became a college physical education instructor and joined an emerging movement among young African-Americans to gain a political foothold in a city dominated by Italian-Americans. As he tells it, even during the 1967 riots, he tried to stop a mob by telling them: "You can't win by force. We'll win with the ballot box." 
Three years later, he was part of a slate that catapulted Mr. Gibson to the mayoralty and Mr. James to a seat on the Council. A civil engineer by training, Mr. Gibson brought stability to Newark, but after four terms in office, many residents were troubled by a sense that Newark's resurgence had hit a wall.
"Gibson had stopped a calamitous downward spiral, but there was no up," said Michael Redmond, 52, then a music critic for The Star-Ledger and the organizer of a community group. "There was a restlessness throughout the city, and here was Sharpe James, vibrant and dynamic."
Where Mr. Gibson was placid, and at times passive, Mr. James was a whirl of optimism. Mr. James, whose slogan was "Sharpe Change," won in a landslide.
"We thought it was a real beginning," said Claude Coleman, a superior court judge who was in the fledgling James administration, first as fire director, then police director. "Sharpe was like a new promise for rebirth and we were proud to be in the vanguard of change."
Mr. James reinstated the mounted police units, streamlined the city's permit process and became a one-man cheerleading squad, talking up the city to anyone who would listen. He knows how to massage a crowd, throwing out snippets of Yiddish, Spanish or Italian, depending on his audience. "Ken would show up at an event, say a few words and leave," Mr. Coleman said. "Sharpe would schmooze everyone, stay for the whole party, and be the last one to leave."
His persuasiveness helped woo corporate tenants to a once-ghostly downtown, among them the telecommunications company IDT, Blue Cross-Blue Shield and Verizon. He trumpeted Newark as the logical home for the state's performing arts center. He coined the phrase Newark Renaissance, and made it stick.
"There would be no arts center in Newark without Sharpe James," said Lawrence Goldman, its executive director. "Once he's convinced of something, he's a real bulldog."
But that same tenacity can also be directed at his enemies, earning Mr. James a reputation as a bulldog who does not tolerate disloyalty or dissent. "Sharpe is fiery, competitive and he plays to win," said Senator Ronald L. Rice, a longtime friend who made the mistake of challenging him for mayor in 1998. "You don't want him as your enemy."
Mr. James has also been criticized for his $248,000 salary, making him the highest-paid elected official in the state, and for turning City Hall into a patronage center for friends and allies. Liz Del Tufo, the retired director of the Newark Boys Choir, who volunteered on his first campaign, said the quality of the mayor's inner circle has harmed Newark.
"He's got some very good people around him and he's got some terribly mediocre people around him," she said. "As a result, City Hall doesn't operate as efficiently as it could." 
With less than three weeks before the election, Mr. James is counting on help from the state's top elected officials, eager for Newark votes, and residents thankful for their municipal jobs.
But to win another term and become the longest-serving mayor in Newark history, Mr. James will have to convince a wider audience that he still has vision and dynamism. He will also have to defend his integrity and accomplishments against an opponent as skilled and politically nimble as he is.
"Lose?" he asked, responding to the question of what life after City Hall might entail. "That's not even an option."
But he seemed especially troubled by the notion that someone younger and less experienced than he could take his place.
"You don't fix something that's not broke," he said. "You don't change horses in the middle of the race." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Sharpe James singing with Gwen Moten during Newark's 15th annual Holocaust Observance yesterday at Grace Episcopal Church. "Today, people are proud to say they live in Newark," the mayor said. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Mayor Sharpe James, shown on the second floor of City Hall, is seeking a fifth term, and would be Newark's longest-serving mayor if he wins on May 14. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; JAMES, SHARPE (MAYOR); BOOKER, CORY (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



618 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Housing Pinch on L.I. Causes New Group to Push for More Rentals 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., April 24 

 BODY:
Ronald J. Caputo works on Long Island, where he was born and grew up, but he says he can no longer afford to live here.
 Mr. Caputo, his wife and four children were told last year that they would have to leave the house they rented in Port Jefferson, which the owner was selling to take advantage of soaring real estate prices. Desperate to stay within their budget, the family scoured the region and eventually moved to a house renting for $1,150 a month -- in Mount Pocono, Pa. 
 His resulting commute is a nightmare. He drives 105 miles through New Jersey, New York City and Nassau County to his office in Suffolk, averaging about three hours, with a return trip to match.
"I couldn't find anything on Long Island under $2,500," said Mr. Caputo, 37, an organizer for a painters' union who says his family income is a bit over $80,000 a year. "I'd never be able to save to buy a home."
The Caputos are not the only refugees of high rent flocking to Pennsylvania. "Everybody we meet in that area, guess where they are from?" he said. "New York. Predominantly Long Islanders, working in Manhattan."
There is a reason. As the nation's first post-World War II suburb, Long Island enshrined the single-family homeowner and generally barred multiple dwellings. Today the Island has one of the nation's smallest supplies of rental housing. The few that exist carry exorbitant price tags, making the Island the nation's fifth most expensive metropolitan area for rentals.
Despite past political prohibitions of multiple-family housing, now there is a major new effort to build more. A new group called the Long Island Campaign for Affordable Rental Housing gathered here today to announce a push for more low- and moderate-income rentals.
"There is no more important human or economic problem confronting Long Island today than affordable housing," said Matthew Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, a leading business group that has joined in the new organization, a coalition of religious, government, civic, labor, environmental and nonprofit groups.
"Families have been dislocated, families are spread all across the U.S. because children who grew up on Long Island cannot afford to live here," Mr. Crosson said. "This cannot continue."
The shortage of rentals is also crimping business because employers have a hard time recruiting workers and paying the salaries to meet housing costs. "We are strangling ourselves," Mr. Crosson said.
To foster new rentals, the coalition proposes tax abatements for developers, using surplus public land for housing, redeveloping downtown areas and a model zoning law enabling higher density and requiring developers to include housing for a range of income levels or, alternatively, to pay fees to a housing trust fund.
Most early Long Island suburbanites came from New York City to escape the density of high-rise buildings and multiple dwellings. Zoning laws here imposed their wishes, and so only 20 percent of Long Island's housing is rental property; in New York City the rate is about 66 percent, and nationwide is 33 percent.
The unintended consequence is that Long Island has few rentals for the elderly, singles, newlyweds and service workers with modest paychecks.
"Many people left New York City to find an idyllic suburban environment," the Suffolk County executive, Robert J. Gaffney, said today. "We became exactly what we wanted to be, but we found that it no longer works."
On a personal note, Mr. Gaffney added: "I speak to you not only as the county executive but as the father of a married daughter who lives in Colorado and who explored the options of affordable rentals in Suffolk County and found that there are virtually none."
Individual stories like that may help turn the tide against town and village zoning restrictions and against school officials' fears that more rentals will produce a surge of new students -- fears that housing proponents say are unfounded.
"I have seen a real change in resistance" to housing proposals, said Jim Morgo, president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit group. "Everybody has someone who can't find a home. It's the same people who advocated exclusionary zoning whose children now can't afford to live here."
Home-ownership costs have soared; selling prices average nearly $240,000 in Suffolk and more than $300,000 in Nassau. Rentals offer little relief. Federal statistics show that the fair-market rent for a two-bedroom apartment on Long Island is $1,230. To afford that, according to federal guidelines, a tenant should be earning $23.65 an hour -- nearly five times the minimum wage.
The only areas in the nation where tenants need to earn more than that to pay local rents are Oakland, Calif., $23.90 an hour; Stamford-Norwalk, Conn., $26.62; San Jose, Calif., $30.62, and San Francisco, $33.60.
Over the years Long Island governments and religious and other nonprofit groups have built some subsidized apartments, especially for the elderly. Planners say tens of thousands more are needed, just to meet existing needs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SUBURBS (75%); ZONING (74%); CITIES (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); REFUGEES (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); TAX LAW (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%) LONG ISLAND CAMPAIGN FOR AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



619 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Pressed Again, This Time on Disclosure and Derivatives

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
The simmering debate over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored companies that help finance home loans, is heating up again, this time over the companies' disclosure policies and exemptions from securities rules.
 Banks and some lawmakers have long complained that Fannie and Freddie get hidden government subsidies that give them an unfair edge over other financial companies. Fannie and Freddie, which were created by Congress but are owned by public shareholders, buy mortgages from banks and other lenders and either hold the mortgages themselves or resell them to investors with a guarantee that they will not default. 
 The government does not guarantee the debt issued by Fannie and Freddie. But it does provide the companies with some special privileges, including exemption from state and local taxes, that critics say leads investors to believe that Washington would step in if the companies had financial trouble. As a result, Fannie and Freddie can borrow more cheaply than almost any other company, giving them a crucial edge. 
But the subsidy issue has had little traction in Congress, where Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have convinced lawmakers that they strengthen the housing market and lower mortgage rates for homeowners by funneling money from investors around the world to borrowers in the United States.
With housing among the brightest spots in the economy, Congress is ill disposed to take any step that might make mortgages less affordable. In 2000, a big effort to rein in the companies' privileges went nowhere.
"The decision was made a long time ago to support the housing market and home mortgages in the United States," said Alec Crawford, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities.
Now, in the wake of the Enron collapse, the argument over the companies has taken a new turn. Instead of taking on Fannie and Freddie over subsidies, their critics are arguing that the companies, which are exempt from Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure rules, do not give enough information to regulators or investors.
Together, Fannie and Freddie guarantee nearly $3 trillion in mortgages. Because they are so large, even a small misstep by them could be disastrous, said Representative Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican. Mr. Shays has introduced legislation to require Fannie and Freddie to register their bond issues with the S.E.C.
"Disclosure is essential," he said. "It's just hard to justify why anyone would be against disclosure."
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, expressed a related concern in a speech Monday night to the Institute of International Finance. The banks that sell derivatives to Fannie and Freddie, he said, might take on too much risk because they believe that Fannie and Freddie are implicitly supported by the government.
Because the two companies carry a triple-A credit rating, they usually do not put up collateral for their derivatives positions. Lower-rated institutions, including most big commercial and investment banks, generally do put up collateral.
"The broader risks for financial markets and the economy result from the perception of government support for these corporations," Mr. Greenspan said.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac respond that they already disclose huge amounts of information about their portfolios and derivative exposure, and that the fuss over the implicit government support and the companies' use of derivatives is a red herring. "There's not a real systemic-risk concern here," said Arne Christenson, Fannie's senior vice president for regulatory policy. "We are a fundamentally very strong financial company." 
Wall Street seems unworried about the new controversy. Though shares in both companies fell Tuesday morning, after Mr. Greenspan's comments, by day's end both stock and bond investors had shrugged off the speech. Shares in Fannie closed slightly higher, while Freddie was barely off. Yesterday, Fannie closed at $80.63, down 7 cents, while Freddie finished at $66.03, up 26 cents.
"I don't think he said anything that was new," said Stephen Mahoney, a portfolio manager at the Glenmede Trust Company in Philadelphia who owns more than $400 million in Fannie and Freddie bonds. "Most of the things that he talked about have already been addressed."
Still, by making derivatives and disclosure, rather than the subsidy itself, the center of debate, the critics have for the first time in two years put some real pressure on Fannie and Freddie.
In the last month, both companies have given investors more information about their derivatives positions. And Fannie said in March that it would begin to disclose insider stock sales and purchases by its executives, something it had not done before. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BONDS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); BOND ISSUES (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) STOCKS AND BONDS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; FANNIE MAE; FREDDIE MAC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



620 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Internet: Latest From Google: For-Pay Search 

BYLINE:  By Saul Hansell (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Google, a World Wide Web search engine that steadfastly believes that the Internet bubble never burst, has quietly introduced another service. This time, it is Google Answers (answers.google.com), which lets users post questions and name a price they would pay for an answer. 
Answers are provided by a group of independent researchers screened by Google. Three-quarters of the fee goes to the researcher; one-quarter goes to Google, along with a 50-cent nonrefundable fee even if the question is not answered. One user offered $20 to find out how an American company could accept German credit cards. An unanswered question is why Google thinks it can succeed when others who tried much the same business, like InfoRocket and expertcity.com, did not. Saul Hansell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (88%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: GOOGLE.COM 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



621 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Straddling a Fault Line Between Islam and the West

BYLINE:  By RICHARD EDER

 BODY:
WEST OF KABUL, EAST OF NEW YORK
By Tamim Ansary
292 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $22.
 In the weeks after Sept. 11, when the television screens were filled with the certainties and chiseled uncertainties of the talking heads -- invariably in upper case -- a round-featured and bespectacled head would occasionally pop up. It did not so much talk as question and remember: in lower case. 
 For those moments, Tamim Ansary delivered us from text into context, from crisis into history, from isolation into geography, from a world shattered to one that, having lived through millennia of shatterings, stays mournfully round, and around.
 Born and brought up an Afghan, he could tell of a country that was something other than a cause and a target. A longtime American, he could speak to a country that never thought much about anywhere else, until anywhere else flattened part of Manhattan.
His college basketball coach, observing an oddly inflected movement or two, once demanded: "Where have you been all your life, Afghanistan?" Having thought to suggest the figurative moon or ultima Thule, the coach was taken aback to hear: "Yes."
Mr. Ansary, a California writer and editor, has put this and much else into "West of Kabul, East of New York," a book that steadies our skittering compass. Pointing east and west it signals not galactic opposites but two ends of a needle we can hold in our hand. Mr. Ansari loathes Osama bin Laden and fears what he stands for, something lucidly set out at the end. But it is part of himself that our bombs hit, as well. No windy feeling, this, but as homely as his reaction to a talk-show caller who suggested nuking:
"I saw my grandmother K'Koh, elfin soul of the Ansary family. Oh, she died long ago, but in my mind she died again that day, as I pictured the rainfall of bombs that would be coming." 
"West of Kabul" is Mr. Ansary's effort to ponder and set down what he had improvised in those post-September television interviews: "The dissonance between the world I am living in now and the world I left behind." It speaks with modesty of tone and is all the more resonant for that reason; it searches by sifting. Its unforced findings are at times inconclusive, and glitter at times.
The beginning depicts Tamim's first 16 years, spent in the Afghanistan of the 1950's where his father, member of a distinguished family, was a poet and literature professor and later a government official. He'd met Tamim's Finnish-American mother while studying in Chicago, and taken her back to live in the Ansary family compound in Kabul.
The second part tells of Tamim's move with his mother and sister to the United States in 1964, of his counterculture years at Reed College in Oregon, and of settling down as an editor in San Francisco, and marrying.
In the early 1980's the Iran revolution awoke memories of his Islamic childhood; he took a kind of roots-seeking trip through North Africa and Turkey, talking to fundamentalists and painfully discovering how alien they were, not just to his adult American life but also to the Islam he remembered from prewar Afghanistan.
There is humor and perceptiveness in the pain, as there is in the last section telling of efforts to organize the splintery Afghan community on the West Coast to assist refugees from the Soviet invasion and the civil wars that followed.
A committee was formed; a larger rival committee was formed. To match it, the first group sought recruits, only to find them reluctant because, already seeing themselves as some future government, they complained that the good posts were all filled: president, vice president (premier, that is), treasurer (minister of finance), secretary (foreign minister). Finally, two were brought in by naming them ministers of defense and interior. The account comically and disastrously prefigures today's nation-building. 
Perhaps it is the childhood memories that are most revealing; Mr. Ansary, who can be rather flat writing about the United States, makes the lost ways of the Ansary compound magically familiar. He evokes a virtually medieval Kabul: unpaved roads, little electricity, no running water. No garbage service because -- ecologist's dream -- "we didn't produce any garbage." 
Each compound was a world of its own; an extended family that lived communally once within its walls. "To hear our own thoughts," he writes, Americans require moments of privacy. "My Afghan relatives achieved this same state by being with one another. Being at home with the group gave them the satisfactions we associate with solitude -- ease, comfort and the freedom to let down one's guard." 
He writes of religion unforcedly practiced: prayers by most, kneeling and facing Mecca-ward in the common room, while a few quietly occupied themselves otherwise. "With so many people praying at once, at home, in the courtyards, in public buildings, five times daily, prayer became the respiration of a whole society." 
It was a very different Islam, rigid and punitive, that he encountered later, in his travels. He writes suggestively and with alarmed understanding of the radical fundamentalists he talked to (among them his brother, now estranged). In the Taliban followers he sees a generation of displaced children, their zeal armed and instructed in the Pakistan refugee camps and untempered by the social context of the prewar Afghanistan they never knew.
It is not Islam that is the threat, he writes, but Islam deracinated by poverty, war and social and economic displacement, and finding its strength and justification in a Manichaean view of history.
No doubt Mr. Ansary's family memoir displays an element of nostalgia for a peaceful and something of a privileged time. Nostalgia can be as truthful as memory, though. It is optimism toward the past, and perhaps less deluded than optimism toward the future.
Once out of his teens, the half-American boy couldn't wait to shake the venerable golden dust off his feet and get to the United States. He is firmly planted here, but in one respect he grows a little higher than the rest of us. His book sees things we cannot make out, and need to.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tamim Ansary (Martin Klimek/Farrar, Straus & Giroux) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RELIGION (74%); LITERATURE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BASKETBALL (68%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



622 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
More Jitters About Profits Knock Dow Closer to 10,000

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell for the fifth trading session in the last six yesterday as confidence in a rebound in corporate profits waned. Exxon Mobil led the Dow Jones industrial average to its lowest level in more than two months.
 "I can find tons of things to sell, but I can't find anything to buy," said Donna Van Vlack, head trader at Brandywine Asset Management. 
 The Dow slid 58.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,030.43, with Exxon Mobil accounting for 12 percent of the drop. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.82 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,093.14. Computer-related shares contributed almost half the decline as Microsoft tumbled to its lowest level in six months. 
The Nasdaq composite index retreated 16.95 points, or 1 percent, to 1,713.34, its lowest since October.
Shares of Wall Street firms declined as the investigation by New York State into brokers' research widened, and the chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said revenue from sales and trading was falling. Morgan Stanley dropped $2.51, to $50.99. 
Merrill Lynch lost $2.49, to $44.65. New Jersey and California will join New York in leading a 50-state investigation into whether the company and other securities firms violated laws by misleading investors with biased stock research.
Citigroup, owner of Salomon Smith Barney, declined 80 cents, to $44.70, and Lehman Brothers fell $2.37, to $60.15.
Exxon Mobil declined as gasoline futures fell after the American Petroleum Institute reported an unexpected rise in inventories last week. Exxon fell $1.05, to $40.30. 
AOL Time Warner rose 19 cents, to $19.30. After markets closed, AOL, the biggest Internet and media company, posted a loss of $54.2 billion, or $12.25 a share, one of the biggest in American history, on costs related to America Online's purchase of Time Warner last year.
AT&T, the biggest long-distance telephone company, had a wider loss and forecast a plunge in consumer long-distance sales will accelerate this year, underscoring concerns that broader profit growth will be slower than expected. It fell 10 cents, to $13.75.
"People are coming to the realization the economy is not likely to be as robust as many would expect," said Jim Luke, a fund manager at BB&T Asset Management in Raleigh, N.C.
Some 1.38 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Advancing and declining stocks were about even on the Big Board.
Microsoft led software shares lower. Bill Gates, the chairman, who has been testifying this week in the company's antitrust case, said it would pull its flagship Windows operating system from the market if a penalty plan offered by nine states was approved.
The shares have fallen 7.3 percent this week; yesterday, Microsoft fell 97 cents, to $53.02.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Reuters) -- Weaker economic data, a well-received two-year note auction and planned buybacks of long-dated securities by the Treasury pushed bond prices higher yesterday and yields to their lowest levels since early March.
The Treasury sold $25 billion of new two-year notes at auction at a price to yield 3.375 percent. By late in the day, the price of the note improved to yield 3.30 percent. The current-issue two-year note also rose to yield 3.22 percent from 3.32.
The benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 98 7/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.11 percent from 5.17 percent. The 30-year bond increased 20/32, to 96 19/32. Its yield declined to 5.61 percent from 5.66 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 100.000
High Yield: 3.375%
Low Yield: 3.330%
Median Yield: 3.350%
Accepted at low price: 54%
Total applied for: $57,596,062
Accepted: $32,648,157
Noncompetitive: $1,341,470
Interest set at: 3 3/8

The two-year notes mature on April 30, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); INVENTORIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); HISTORY (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); APPROVALS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); AOL INC (82%); BB & T ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (62%); BRANDYWINE GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



623 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Hewlett Executives Defend Decision Before Vote

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., April 24 

 BODY:
In a series of combative courtroom exchanges, Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, today defended a decision not to disclose to shareholders internal reports that raised doubts about the benefits of a merger with Compaq Computer.
 At one point, Ms. Fiorina, visibly irritated by the questioning, summed up the essence of the suit brought by a dissident director, Walter B. Hewlett. "Sir," Ms. Fiorina told Mr. Hewlett's lawyer, "you are accusing the chief executive officer of a publicly traded company of lying." 
 In his suit, Mr. Hewlett is seeking to have the results of a shareholder vote in favor of the Compaq merger tossed out, contending that Hewlett-Packard's management withheld information from shareholders that might have prompted them to oppose the deal. As it was, the company apparently won approval for the merger by a slender margin, about 45 million shares out of some 1.6 billion shares voted, according to a preliminary tally by independent inspectors.
The issue that the judge, William B. Chandler III, must decide is whether Hewlett-Packard managers had a "duty to disclose" the reports by teams from both companies that were planning how to make the merger meet the financial goals used to justify the deal.
Those documents, mentioned as the trial began on Tuesday and discussed in greater detail today, portrayed the growing concern of some managers that sales and cost-savings goals for the combined company were too optimistic. Memorandums and e-mail messages assessed the prospects as "ugly" or called a detailed study "a frightening reality check."
In testimony today, Ms. Fiorina and Robert Wayman, the chief financial officer of Hewlett-Packard, described these qualms as the natural reaction of managers confronted with the internal goals required to meet and perhaps exceed the publicly stated goals for the combined company.
Typically, the executives said, managers of business units set conservative goals -- a tactic called sandbagging -- because they know their compensation will be based on exceeding the goals. But it is top management's job to obtain maximum performance.
Referring to the comments in some documents, Mr. Wayman said, "This is a planning exercise in process; it's a constant tension."
The anguished memorandums, Ms. Fiorina said, were not only selective "snapshots" of the process, but they also came from managers looking at individual businesses in the two companies. What they did not see, she added, were the broader savings and efficiencies the larger company could achieve in areas like procurement, finance and information technology.
A work-in-progress, she said, should not be passed on to shareholders. "Because it is not a forecast," she said, "I don't see why we should disclose it."
At no time, Ms. Fiorina and Mr. Wayman testified, did they have any serious doubts about the merged company's ability to reach the two crucial financial goals promised publicly -- annual cost savings of $2.5 billion by 2004, and lost revenues of no more than 4.9 percent after combining sales and eliminating overlapping product lines.
Under questioning from Mr. Hewlett's lawyer, Stephen C. Neal, the executives acknowledged that some financial models sent to shareholders did, for example, translate the 4.9 percent revenue loss into $4.1 billion in fiscal 2003, which begins in November 2002. 
As the economy deteriorated and technology spending stagnated after September, when the merger was announced, some estimates showed the total revenue-loss figure increasing by an additional $3.5 billion in fiscal 2003.
Mr. Neal repeatedly suggested that Hewlett-Packard should have disclosed the information. Ms. Fiorina and Mr. Wayman replied that those higher estimates were based only on the reports of unit managers and were too pessimistic.
Mr. Neal also asked the Hewlett-Packard executives if they could point to any document that said the work of the unit managers -- called the "value capture teams" -- was an incomplete picture of the planning process or reassuring managers that the merger plan was on target. There was no succinct "reply document," they said, though they pointed to the minutes of an executive meeting that said some estimates from the teams seemed too pessimistic.
In the afternoon, Mr. Hewlett took the stand. A Hewlett-Packard lawyer, Steven M. Schatz, tried to portray Mr. Hewlett as someone using a suit as a tactic to reverse a shareholder vote he lost. Under questioning, Mr. Hewlett acknowledged that before the vote on March 29, he already had documents raising concerns that the merger planning was not going as well as Hewlett-Packard's management had suggested. 
But he said he did not communicate what he had found to the rest of the board partly because he had not looked into the documents. 
Besides, he said, "communications between me and the rest of the board had broken down; we were in the middle of a proxy fight."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (90%); APPROVALS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); LITIGATION (73%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; HEWLETT, WALTER B; CHANDLER, WILLIAM B 3D (JUDGE); FIORINA, CARLETON S 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) DELAWARE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



624 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: The Prince and the President 

 BODY:
President Bush faces no shortage of work today when Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia visits him at his Texas ranch. The Israeli-Palestinian standoff remains acute. There is belligerent talk that unless Washington presses Ariel Sharon to restrain his military and convenes a Mideast peace conference, Saudi Arabia might reduce oil exports and military cooperation with Washington, including American use of a critical Saudi military base. The threats fail to recognize Saudi Arabia's own responsibility for deteriorating relations, and we hope they prove to be overblown. Prince Abdullah appears to be relatively forward-looking, and there is reason to think that he and Mr. Bush can find common ground.
 No previous Saudi ruler has found himself in such a squeeze. Riyadh's principal ally, America, is now at war with Islamic terror, while Saudi Arabia has for years been the principal exporter and bankroller of radical Islam, including some of the most violent strains. At the same time, the crown prince feels that his successful lobbying of fellow Arab leaders to endorse a proposal offering Israel normal relations in exchange for withdrawal from virtually all the territories occupied since 1967 has been insufficiently appreciated by Washington and undermined by Israel's subsequent military actions in the West Bank. 
 There are at least some signs that Crown Prince Abdullah may be wise and skilled enough to pull his country through the current crisis. He has been running the country since King Fahd, his brother, suffered a disabling stroke more than six years ago; during this period he has made a credible start on opening a tightly closed economy and political system. He has begun to make a mark on the international stage as well, notably through his sponsorship of the pathbreaking, though far from complete, Arab League peace plan. 
Within the context of the highly conservative Saudi royal family, Crown Prince Abdullah qualifies as a reformer, albeit a cautious one. He has taken steps to discourage corruption among his royal relatives, modernize the education system, ease some restrictions on women and facilitate foreign investment. These domestic reforms are barely a beginning of what is needed to generate enough jobs for a rapidly growing population and lessen the temptations of violent fundamentalism to an alienated and underemployed younger generation. Saudi Arabia still has no democracy and highly limited respect for human rights. All real power resides with the extended royal family, which now counts some 5,000 princes and princesses. 
The crown prince is a religious man, an Arab nationalist and personally moved by the plight of the Palestinian people. Those views have sometimes made him a difficult partner for Washington, but they also helped give him the credibility he needed to persuade other Arab leaders to endorse his peace proposal. Saudi Arabia is the dominant economic power of the Arab Mideast and home to Islam's two holiest places, Mecca and Medina. Its potential diplomatic influence is enormous. It is also the world's No. 1 oil exporter and the leading purchaser of American military equipment, factors that will continue to link its fortunes to Washington despite current tensions. 
The Saudi peace plan will be a major topic of today's discussions, along with American proposals for removing Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq. A useful next step would be for the Saudi leader to help extricate the Palestinian Authority from its fatal embrace of terrorism. It would be a mistake for him to threaten Mr. Bush with talk of an oil embargo. Popular anger is not a wise basis for policy-making, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is far from a one-sided problem. This is a moment for the crown prince to work with Mr. Bush to ease the crisis in the Middle East. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICS (74%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LOBBYING (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); CORRUPTION (61%); JOB CREATION (60%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (89%) ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (58%) SAUDI ARABIA (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



625 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Sharon Suggests Arafat Can Move to Gaza Strip
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said in an interview that he would consider letting Yasir Arafat leave the Israeli siege in Ramallah and move to the Gaza Strip as a test of whether the Palestinian leader was willing to put his security forces to work there stopping Palestinian violence. Mr. Sharon also said he had promised President Bush that he would not harm Mr. Arafat. A1

The first negotiations took place on ending the standoff at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. A14

Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia is expected to tell President Bush at their meeting today that the strategic relationship between their two countries will be threatened if Mr. Bush does not moderate his support for Israel's military policies. A1

Cash Crunch in Argentina
A growing number of stores were accepting only cash as the country sought to cope with the third day of a bank holiday prompted by Argentina's fiscal crisis. A12

President Eduardo Duhalde dropped an unpopular plan to convert billions of dollars in bank deposits into long-term bonds and stepped up his search for a new economics minister. A12

Briton Assails French Candidate
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain attacked the "repellent racism" of Jean-Marie Le Pen, the far-right candidate for the French presidency, and he urged British politicians to stand up to the anti-immigration British National Party in local elections across the country next week. A5

NATION CHALLENGED A16

Warnings of New Attacks In the U.S. and Abroad
The F.B.I. has quietly told its offices nationwide that unconfirmed information from a captured leader of Al Qaeda suggests that terrorists may be plotting an attack on a shopping center or supermarket in the United States. And the State Department warned that attacks on Americans were possible in the Persian Gulf and Arabian Peninsula. A16

Suspect's Competence Doubted
Lawyers for Zacarias Moussaoui, whom prosecutors call the 20th hijacker, said he might be mentally ill and should not be allowed to defend himself at trial without a psychiatric determination of his competence. A16

NATIONAL A18-29

Cardinals' Policy on Abuse Remains Unsettled
American cardinals concluded two days of meetings with Pope John Paul II and other Vatican officials and issued a set of proposals intended to help remove priests who abuse minors. But the recommendations were less clear-cut than the zero-tolerance policy that was promised by some cardinals just hours earlier. A1

Working Poor Still Struggle
The welfare rolls in seven Midwestern states have shrunk by two-thirds since 1994, but many former aid recipients remain in poverty, struggling to pay basic bills as they juggle part-time, temporary jobs, according to a group's review of 24 studies. A20

Federal Data on Nursing Homes
The Bush administration issued data on the quality of care at more than 2,500 nursing homes in six states, and promised to publish similar information affecting all other states this fall, as part of a project to help consumers evaluate health care providers. A26

Bills to Fight Anti-Gay Bias
A Senate committee approved legislation to prohibit job discrimination based on sexual orientation, advancing a bill that the Senate may pass this year but that the House is unlikely to take up. A measure to protect gays by making hate crimes a federal offense punishable by life in prison will be brought before the committee within three weeks, a spokeswoman for the majority leader said. A26

EDUCATION

The Right to Sue Debated
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether a federal law that requires schools and colleges to protect the privacy of students' educational records also gives students and their parents the right to sue for breaches of that privacy. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

DNA Evidence Exonerates Inmate in '95 Killing
Hector Gonzalez, 25, was freed after serving more than six years in prison for a killing that the Brooklyn district attorney now acknowledges he did not commit. Recent DNA tests of blood on Mr. Gonzalez's jeans were crucial. B1

Seeking More Rental Housing
A broad coalition began a push for more low- and moderate-income rentals on Long Island, where single-family homes, the dominant housing, average $240,000 to $300,000 and rarer two-bedroom apartments rent on average for $1,230 a month. B1

SPORTS D1-8

CIRCUITS G1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Same Old Story
Astronomers using the cooling cinders of burned-out stars as a kind of cosmic clock set the age of the universe at about 13 billion years, a finding consistent with recent estimates reached through other methods. A24

Strangers in a Strange Land
Birders are converging on Massachusetts in hope of getting a glimpse of two rare visitors, birds from very different species that probably originated in Asia: the Eurasian kestrel and the Pacific golden plover. A24

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

OBITUARIES B8

ARTS E1-10

Shake-Up at Royal Shakespeare
Adrian Noble, whose management of the Royal Shakespeare Company has come under strong criticism, will step down as artistic director. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Andersen Proposes a Deal
Lawyers for Arthur Andersen submitted a proposed settlement of the firm's criminal case to the government, offering fewer concessions than prosecutors were seeking last week when talks collapsed. C1

A House Response to Enron
The House easily passed legislation addressing the accounting and financial-disclosure deceptions at Enron, but consumer groups and Democratic leaders attacked it as toothless. C1

Subpoena for Brokerage Firm
The New York State attorney general issued a subpoena to Salomon Smith Barney for all documents relating to research by the star telecommunications analyst Jack Grubman. C1

A Rowdy Vivendi Meeting
Vivendi Universal reported a better-than-expected first quarter for its telecommunications and media units, and the board unanimously voted its support for the chairman and chief executive, Jean-Marie Messier, who was nonetheless booed at a shareholders meeting in Paris. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Vatican deliberations; the prince and the president; Elvis repackaged.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HIJACKING (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); RETAILERS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); AL-QAEDA (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%); TONY BLAIR (58%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); HOLY SEE (76%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



626 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Begins Issuing Data on Individual Nursing Homes' Quality of Care 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
The Bush administration released data today on the quality of care at more than 2,500 nursing homes in six states, and promised to publish similar information on those in all other states this fall, part of an ambitious project to help consumers evaluate the performance of health care providers.
 AARP, two trade associations for the nursing home industry and the Service Employees International Union, which represents 125,000 people who work in nursing homes, endorsed the project. 
 They said the new data would help people select nursing homes and would motivate homes to correct deficiencies that have persisted for decades.
Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, who has enthusiastically encouraged the initiative, said, "This is a huge step forward, probably the biggest step to improve the quality of nursing homes that this department has ever been involved in." 
Asked if the government intended to release similar data on the care provided by doctors and hospitals, Mr. Thompson said, "Sure, we will go as far as we possibly can."
The six states for which the government released data today are Colorado, Florida, Maryland, Ohio, Rhode Island and Washington.
The new data will be available on the Web at www.medicare.gov and through a toll-free telephone number, 800-Medicare (800-633-4227).
For most nursing homes, the government will report six types of information: the proportion of residents who have bedsores, who are in physical restraints, who have lost too much weight, who are suffering pain, who have certain types of infections and who need more help with daily activities.
Using the data, a family can see that, for example, 12 percent of the residents at Miami Shores Nursing and Rehabilitation Center have bedsores, compared with 37 percent at the Regents Park home in Boca Raton, Fla., 9 percent at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington, in Rockville, Md., and 4 percent at the Josephine Sunset Home in Stanwood, Wash. The average for the six states is 8 percent.
Tess Canja, the president of AARP, noted that the government was not disclosing data on the ratio of employees to patients or the number of consumer complaints about each home. But federal officials said they would eventually disclose those figures.
Some nursing home owners and health care experts said the data could be confusing, and Secretary Thompson acknowledged that the project "is going to be very controversial."
Dr. Andrew M. Kramer, a professor of medicine at the University of Colorado who advised the Bush administration on the effort, said, "Public reporting of quality-of-care information is a good idea," but he cautioned: "The current information is not adequately adjusted for differences in the health of individuals admitted to nursing homes. Therefore, the data could be misleading. They could make good homes look bad, and vice versa."
Janet C. Wells, director of public policy for the National Citizens' Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, a consumer group, said the data would be helpful. But, she said, people choosing a home should also ask for state inspection reports and should visit homes to observe the quality of care.
Federal officials and economists have been saying for years that health care markets would operate like other markets if consumers had more information. The new initiative will test that hypothesis.
"The data will help us identify opportunities for improvement, areas where we can do better," said Mary K. Ousley, chairwoman of the American Health Care Association, one of the trade groups that endorsed the initiative. 
William L. Minnix Jr., president of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, which represents nonprofit homes, said, "If substandard nursing homes don't improve, public pressure will drive them out of business."
The statistics are based entirely on data that nursing homes report to the government as a condition of participating in Medicare and Medicaid. Homes that knowingly submit false information can be prosecuted for fraud.
The government said it had adjusted the data to reflect the fact that some nursing homes had patients who were sicker or more frail than residents of other homes, though Dr. Kramer and some other experts said the adjustment had not been sufficient. The statistical methods used to make such adjustments are complicated and imperfect.
Irene Fleshner, senior vice president of Genesis Health Ventures, a national nursing home chain, said the government's numbers did not "adequately portray the quality of care."
But Dr. Jeffrey L. Kang, chief clinical officer at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said researchers had found that the data provided "a fair reflection of nursing home quality."
Because the government uses the same data for reimbursement, nursing homes have conflicting incentives: they receive higher payments if patients look sicker, but the quality of care appears better if patients look healthier.
Dr. David L. Jackson, medical director of HCR Manor Care, which operates about 300 nursing homes, said, "None of the quality measures are perfect, but they are good enough to make this initiative worthwhile."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One example, from Medicare's Web site (www.medicare.gov), of the government's newly issued statistics on nursing homes in six states.; Secretary Tommy G. Thompson, left, and Thomas A. Scully, the Medicare and Medicaid administrator, announcing nursing home data. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES (92%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (91%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); MEDICARE (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) NURSING HOMES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (58%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (71%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



627 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Battle for Control of Senate Makes a Stop in Sioux Falls 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D., April 24 

 BODY:
President Bush plunged into the epicenter of the battle for control of the Senate today at a windswept plant here that turns Midwestern corn into ethanol. Senator Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader and the president's political nemesis, sat in the front row as the president spoke.
 But both men remained publicly on their best nonpartisan behavior in Mr. Daschle's home state, even though their parties have enthusiastically run television commercials attacking each other. Mr. Bush warmly shook Mr. Daschle's hand after a speech promoting the administration's farm policies at the gritty Dakota Ethanol plant near here, then patted him on the shoulder as Mr. Daschle grinned. 
 "He said he'd kiss me, but people would talk," Mr. Daschle said after his encounter with the president, and after an even cozier chat with Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff. 
But Mr. Daschle also said he had been invited to the event only after his office called the White House last week to complain that he had been excluded.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Daschle made their brief visits to the South Dakota plains today to engage in their most direct confrontation so far over the state's Senate seat, which could decide whether the Senate remains in the narrow control of the Democrats or reverts to Republican control. The White House has focused on South Dakota as one of its most important races this year. 
Both men are therefore campaigning for their political futures in a state that has been a little stunned to find itself the focus of such national attention. Mr. Bush is supporting the Republican candidate, Representative John Thune, who is the sparsely populated state's only member of the House of Representatives and whom Mr. Bush personally prodded to run. Mr. Daschle is backing his protege, the incumbent Democrat, Senator Tim Johnson.
"I'm here because I firmly believe that John Thune should be the next United States senator from South Dakota," Mr. Bush told a roaring crowd of more than 5,000 people this evening at the Sioux Falls Convention Center. "He's not afraid to stand up for what he believes, and it's refreshing to hear his voice among the shrill partisans of Washington, D.C."
Earlier, Mr. Bush spoke at a smaller fund-raiser that was to raise $350,000 for Mr. Thune's Senate campaign. "I'm going to spare you from a lot of my speech that I'm going to give a little later on," Mr. Bush said. He added, "We've got a lot on our plate and I hope to have this good man beside me in the United States Senate, just as he has been beside me as a fine member of the United States House of Representatives."
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, billed it as the largest fund-raiser in South Dakota history.
The day, like so many others on the president's schedule this year, followed a familiar pattern, layering a touch of Bush administration domestic policy onto aggressive politicking and the raising of hundreds of thousands of dollars for Republican candidates and the party.
Mr. Bush began in the grain building at the Dakota Ethanol plant, where a powerful wind swept grit through the doors, onto laptop computers and roast beef sandwiches. In a speech before farm leaders, Mr. Bush repeated his support for increased use of ethanol in the nation's fuel supply, a hugely popular position in a state where cornfields stretch for miles across the plains.
"When I was running for president, I supported ethanol, and I meant it," Mr. Bush said to applause. "I support it now, because not only do I know it's important for the ag sector of our economy, it's an important part of making sure we become less reliant on foreign sources of energy."
Mr. Bush praised Mr. Daschle for his work on promoting ethanol in energy legislation now before Congress, and then praised Mr. Thune, who was sitting on the opposite side of the grain building from Mr. Daschle, for his work on a rebate program to increase the demand and supply of ethanol. 
"It's good public policy for America," Mr. Bush said. "It's good for our air, it's good for our economy, and it's good for our national security."
Mr. Bush did not single out Mr. Thune's opponent, Mr. Johnson, for any praise. Afterward, Mr. Johnson said he did not think the president's visit would matter to the race.
"I think the election comes down to the candidates," he said. "I don't think it comes down to the White House, the cabinet or the senators who might come out here to campaign."
A provision in the energy legislation, which is nearing passage by the Senate, would triple the amount of ethanol in the nation's gasoline supply by 2012. The provision is supported by Mr. Bush and Mr. Daschle, although not by senators from New York and California, who say that it would increase gas prices.
Mr. Bush left Sioux Falls this evening for his ranch in Texas, where he is to meet on Thursday with Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tim Johnson, left, who is seeking re-election, and Senator Tom Daschle at an event yesterday in South Dakota, where President Bush campaigned for Mr. Johnson's opponent, Representative John Thune. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ETHANOL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FUNDRAISING (63%) ELECTIONS; ETHANOL; ALCOHOL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN THUNE (89%); TIM JOHNSON (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); JOHNSON, TIM (SEN); THUNE, JOHN (REP); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (90%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



628 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE PRIME MINISTER; 
SHARON SUGGESTS ARAFAT COULD GO TO THE GAZA STRIP

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 24 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said today that he would consider letting Yasir Arafat slip out of the Israeli siege in Ramallah and move to the Gaza Strip to demonstrate whether he was willing to put his security forces there to work stopping Palestinian violence.
 Speaking in an interview, Mr. Sharon left no doubt that he expected Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian leader, to fail any such test, saying that "with Arafat, no one will be able to make peace." 
 Mr. Sharon said he had promised President Bush in their first White House meeting that he would not harm Mr. Arafat. Senior Israeli officials said that although Mr. Sharon would like to banish Mr. Arafat, he had no plans to do so.
His remarks were the first suggestion that Mr. Sharon was probing for a way out of the impasse in Ramallah, albeit one Mr. Arafat would find hard to accept. Israeli troops have imprisoned Mr. Arafat in his compound there since early December, and they have occupied the compound itself since late March, trapping Mr. Arafat in two buildings.
But Mr. Sharon has himself been boxed in by the siege of his old rival, unwilling to release him but unable to press him harder. Other governments, including the Bush administration, have not cooperated with his call to isolate Mr. Arafat, and Mr. Arafat's popularity among Palestinians has only grown during the siege, top Israeli officials acknowledged. 
Mr. Sharon accuses Mr. Arafat of harboring wanted men in his compound, but Israeli soldiers have not forced their way inside to seize them. Mr. Sharon said his pledge to President Bush not to harm Mr. Arafat had so far blocked that step, creating the present stalemate. "If that had not been my commitment," he said, "we would have taken them already a long time ago." He said that all Israeli forces would have also withdrawn from Ramallah.
Senior Israeli officials said Mr. Sharon was not yet certain how he would react if another Palestinian suicide attacker struck Israelis. So far, his cabinet has resisted his proposal to exile Mr. Arafat. 
If Mr. Arafat agreed to move to Gaza, Mr. Sharon said, he could not take any of the wanted men with him. "We are ready to consider that," he said of the proposal.
Relief from the Ramallah siege might also be in the interest of the Bush administration, which is seeking Arab backing for a possible strike on Iraq. Moving Mr. Arafat might buy time for such an operation, an Israeli official noted tonight. 
Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, ridiculed Mr. Sharon's proposal. "He's announcing to you officially tonight that he wants to renew his occupation of the West Bank, and he wants to exile Arafat to Gaza," Mr. Erekat said. "I think this is the first time that Sharon reveals the extent of his plans."
Over the weekend, Mr. Sharon halted Israel's largest ground offensive since he led its invasion of Lebanon 20 years ago as defense minister. That time, Mr. Sharon was seeking to drive Palestinian militants back from Israel's northern border and ultimately to drive Mr. Arafat out of Lebanon, a goal he achieved after besieging Mr. Arafat in Beirut.
Mr. Sharon and other Israeli officials denied that his own bitter history with Mr. Arafat had anything to do with the Ramallah standoff. "Believe me," he said, "there is nothing personal here."
Mr. Sharon called himself one of very few Israeli leaders strong enough to persuade his nation to make the "painful compromises" necessary for peace. "I can do it -- I can do it," he said. "I wanted to do it."
"I am willing to make many concessions," he said. "And I think that the Palestinians are losing an opportunity, because with me, we could have finalized an agreement. But what can I do?"
In the interview today, conducted for 90 minutes in his modest office here, Mr. Sharon, 74, appeared weary but relaxed, referring only once or twice to notes provided by his aides and occasionally joking with his guests. 
But he spoke sharply as he described international sympathy for Mr. Arafat. "Leaders from all around the world are coming to him, embracing him, talking to him, phoning to me day and night, showing interest -- if he's got enough candles," Mr. Sharon said, recalling the sorts of concerns he had heard expressed. "What about the cell-phone batteries that are dying?"
"They never ask me about the 93-year-old lady, a survivor of the Holocaust, who was killed at the Seder on Passover eve," he said, referring to the suicide bombing in Netanya last month that killed 28 Israelis.
Even during the Israeli operation, Mr. Sharon's son, Omri, met last Saturday with a top Palestinian official, Muhammad Rashid. The Israeli Army had not pushed into the Gaza Strip as it had into the West Bank, and Omri Sharon was seeking assurances that Palestinian security would crack down on violence there. Prime Minister Sharon said he received such assurances.
But "the terror became more intense," Mr. Sharon said. "They haven't taken any steps." The Israeli government has not ruled out a large-scale raid of the Gaza Strip.
Palestinian officials have said that the Israeli offensive crippled Mr. Arafat's security forces in the West Bank. That claim could not be made in Gaza, Mr. Sharon said. In fact, he said, he specifically instructed his troops "not to react in Gaza" once he heard the Palestinian claims about the West Bank. 
But Mr. Erekat said Israeli bomb and rocket attacks during the 19-month conflict "have literally left not a building of the security forces standing up in Gaza."
Israeli soldiers have arrested hundreds of Palestinians accused of terrorism. Soldiers also killed an unknown number of civilians along with many fighters. Israeli soldiers detained at least 3,000 Palestinian men, later deemed innocent and released, and they put whole cities under curfew, demolishing or damaging hundreds of homes, particularly in the refugee camp city of Jenin. 
Mr. Sharon said Mr. Arafat was solely responsible for Palestinian suffering, and he said Palestinians shared this view. "They know exactly that, the suffering of the Palestinian people, he causes it," he said.
Mr. Sharon has proposed a regional summit meeting, including Israel and Arab states under the sponsorship of the United States, to discuss economic development and peace. In the interview, he said for the first time that such meetings should be held every several months to create "infrastructure for relations between the countries."
Mr. Sharon also praised a recent initiative by Saudi Arabia, adopted last month at the summit meeting of Arab nations in Beirut, to normalize relations with Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal to its borders before the 1967 war and to resolve the plight of refugees from the 1948 war.
"The fact that an Arab country, an important Arab country, comes out with a vision of peace, it's very, very important," Mr. Sharon said. But, he said of the 1967 boundaries, "Israel would not be able to survive with these borders." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMED FORCES (68%) PALESTINIANS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) BENNET, JAMES; ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EREKAT, SAEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK); GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



629 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
Just When the Big Idea Seemed Academic . . .

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
CALL it a failure of will, a lack of imagination or a bow to political and economic reality, but what passes for master planning in recent decades has often been more like tinkering than rethinking.
 That is why the prospect faced by the City University of New York -- to plan a whole new campus on Governors Island -- warrants attention. And that is why it will be worth watching in the next few days to see whom Dr. Matthew Goldstein, the chancellor of the university, appoints to the steering committee charged with preparing the plan. 
 Will it be possible for committee members to recover the lost art of thinking big and devise an academic mission commensurate with the extraordinary setting in New York Harbor? Or will they be so constrained, by outlook or exigency, that Governors Island simply becomes an adjunct to the existing system, useful as that may be?
"This is a very big idea," Dr. Goldstein said this month as he toured the island with Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. "It's probably the largest idea I have seen in the history of City University, certainly recent history."
How that idea is translated into physical reality will be the work of a committee with perhaps 15 to 20 members, representing the state and the city, the board of trustees, the faculty and the student body. Management consultants are to help with the complex regulatory, transportation, financial and political issues.
Mayor Bloomberg's voice on the committee will be Joshua Sirefman, chief operating officer of the Economic Development Corporation. Other members are likely to be announced next week.
The chancellor already has some ideas of his own.
He envisions a graduate-level science park of such intellectual prominence that it would draw biotechnology and computational science companies to Lower Manhattan. This could be undertaken in partnership with private institutions, he said, like Columbia University, New York University or Rockefeller University.
Dr. Goldstein also imagines subsidized housing on the island for teachers as an incentive to lure them from around the country to New York City. "The school system has an insatiable appetite for teachers," he said.
"My mind is swimming in possibilities," Dr. Goldstein said. Understandably. Although he does not expect CUNY to use all 172 acres of Governors Island, even if the university winds up on just half the acreage, it would have a new campus as large as three City Colleges.
Or, for comparison's sake, 20 Barnards.
Barnard College has just hired Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates to prepare what it describes as its first master plan in 98 years. But the phrase "master plan" may be a bit too grand; the planners and architects will not have much room to maneuver in that densely packed four-acre campus along Broadway, between 116th and 120th Streets.
"We really can't afford to make mistakes," said the Barnard president, Dr. Judith Shapiro.
As it stands, Barnard is a three-dimensional lesson book in planning history, mistakes and all.
At the north and south ends, it reflects the Beaux-Arts approach taken at the turn of the 20th century, when the architect Charles Rich prepared a master plan in which the campus was to face the Hudson River and turn its back on Broadway and Columbia University.
Rich's plans were effectively abandoned in 1916, when the financier Jacob Schiff offered to donate $500,000 to build Barnard Hall but insisted on choosing his own architect, Andrew S. Dolkart wrote in "Morningside Heights: A History of Its Architecture and Development" (Columbia University Press, 1998).
FROM then on, it was catch-as-catch-can. Lehman Hall of 1959 observed the scale but not the architectural flavor of its predecessors. A concrete tower and pavilion from 1969, Altschul Hall, and the McIntosh Student Center repudiated the past entirely. A 1988 dormitory, Sulzberger Hall, towered over its neighbors but also deferred to the original red-brick, quadrangle spirit.
Much as they might like to, the architects at Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer cannot think about tearing down the massive and uncompromisingly modern Altschul Hall, which pretty much sundered the old campus. (It may be forbidding, but it is an efficient science building.) Nor will they be looking at dormitories. (Those are already the subject of another plan.) And they would uproot old trees at their peril. (Verdant space is precious.)
"Our purpose is not to wipe out the past in favor of a brilliant future," said the architect Hugh Hardy. "This is not an excuse to transform Barnard into something new."
Their mission, instead, is to find ways to squeeze an extra 77,000 square feet of administrative and academic space onto the campus, perhaps by replacing the McIntosh building and Lehman Hall, while improving the landscaping along the main north-south axis and strengthening the communal character of the public space.
This is a far cry from the rare opportunity that CUNY has to create a real master plan in the kind of bold strokes that Barnard cannot afford. Nonetheless, Dr. Shapiro insisted that she did not envy CUNY, and that more minutely calibrated planning better suited her institution.
"The very compactness of the Barnard campus means we can achieve a kind of community and sense of cohesion," she said. "We're not starting from an empty field. We're starting from a campus that has some beautiful things already and some unfortunate things that we want to make better."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Barnard College: The Fate of a Master Plan"Side-by-side views show the Barnard campus (bounded by Broadway, Claremont Avenue, 116th Street and 120th Street) as planned by the architect Charles Rich and as it emerged over a century of construction. Diagram shows the Barnard campus as envisioned and as developed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



630 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Safety Agency Nominee Is Facing Less Opposition 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
President Bush's second nominee to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission comes to Congress on Thursday for his confirmation proceedings, facing none of the opposition so far that derailed the White House's first choice.
 Last summer, the Senate rejected Mary Sheila Gall, the agency commissioner, for being too weak on safety issues. President Bush then nominated Harold D. Stratton, a former attorney general from New Mexico and longtime critic of regulation. 
 Although he philosophically shares many of the skeptical regulatory views of Ms. Gall, he has not faced the same kind of opposition from Senate Democrats and consumer groups. The difference, they say, is that Mr. Stratton has a more sparse record on product safety issues than Ms. Gall, a commissioner of the agency for the last decade who infuriated consumer groups by repeatedly voting against recalls and safety standards and frequently attributed children's injuries to negligent parents rather than products that safety experts said were faulty. 
Moreover, Congressional officials said, Senate Democrats are reluctant to challenge a second candidate after rejecting the first. Finally, if Mr. Stratton is not confirmed, the agency will be paralyzed next month because it will lack a quorum.
Administration officials said that Mr. Stratton's background made him well qualified for the job.
"As a former state attorney general who ran an efficient and highly productive office, he has both the consumer protection experience and administrative experience to head the C.P.S.C.," said Anne Womack, a White House spokeswoman. "He has a substantive consumer protection record." 
As attorney general, Mr. Stratton brought a variety of consumer fraud cases, including one against a Ford dealership for high-pressure sales tactics and others involving telemarketers and art fraud. His strong opposition to regulation has won him praise from some business interests and raised concerns among some consumer groups.
An administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Mr. Stratton and Ms. Gall were similar in that they both were qualified to lead the agency and that they both believed in personal responsibility and opposed what they considered overly burdensome regulation.
But typical of the difference between the Stratton and Gall nominations is the view of Consumers Union, which campaigned against Ms. Gall but so far has remained neutral on Mr. Stratton's nomination.
"We're extremely concerned that he seems ideologically committed to reducing or eliminating the role of government and we fear he will fail to use his role as head of the Consumer Product Safety Commission to monitor the market where it has failed to get rid of faulty products," said Sally Greenberg, senior product safety counsel in the group's Washington office. "But we have not opposed the nomination because, unlike Mary Sheila Gall, he has no track record. It's very hard when somebody has no track record."
Mr. Stratton, following the tradition of other nominees with pending confirmations, declined to comment. He has told lawmakers and others that while he is philosophically skeptical of government regulation, he has different views when it comes to product safety.
"I have a 6-year-old and a 2-year-old daughter," he said when the White House announced he would be nominated last fall, "and this is an opportunity to do something for them. We all believe in the safety of our consumer products when it comes to kids."
Mr. Stratton, who was co-chairman of a group of New Mexico lawyers supporting George W. Bush in the 2000 election, has repeatedly criticized government and advocated greater individual responsibility. When he was the attorney general of New Mexico, he alienated many Democratic and Republican state prosecutors by regularly attacking the National Association of Attorneys General.
During the Reagan administration, a band of Democratic and Republican state law officials tried to counterbalance what they perceived as a void in regulatory oversight by bringing antitrust and consumer cases. Mr. Stratton was one of two state attorneys general who were critical of those efforts. He took on a bipartisan group of 44 state attorneys general who had signed a compact setting standards for examining corporate mergers. 
"They are using the cover of 'consumer protection' to impose their own antibusiness, pro-government regulation views on the entire nation and are bypassing the legislative process to put in place 'enforcement guidelines' that Congress itself refuses to pass," Mr. Stratton wrote in an op-ed article in 1988 in The Wall Street Journal. "We have enough government interference in our economy without a new group joining the antibusiness parade."
He was also sharply critical of his colleagues in other states for waging an effort to impose airline advertising standards and eliminate what the other states saw as deceptive advertising.
More recently, he founded an organization, the Rio Grande Foundation, which according to its Web site is a research and educational organization that "promotes public policy founded upon the principles of limited government, economic freedom and individual responsibility." He has also served on the board of Defenders of Property Rights, a group that describes itself as opposed to "a broad range of regulations" and committed to "private property rights" and "free market principles." 
The Consumer Product Safety Commission, one of the smaller federal agencies, is responsible for watching over about 15,000 products. Created in the 1970's, the commission was nearly eliminated in the Reagan administration, and after its budget was drastically cut and it was filled with relatively ineffective officials, frustrated consumer groups contemplated recommending that it be eliminated. 
Under Ann W. Brown, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton to head the agency in 1994 and stepped down last year, its profile rose considerably. Ms. Brown, a former official at the Consumer Federation of America, sparred repeatedly with manufacturers, opening investigations into products and proposing rules that prodded industries to formulate their own guidelines.
Experts say the agency is in the midst of several significant inquiries and proposed rule making that would be affected by Mr. Stratton's confirmation. The agency is now considering whether to impose tougher standards for flammability for upholstered furniture, arsenic in wood playground structures and leaded-wick candles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold D. Stratton is the new nominee to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (92%); PRODUCT SAFETY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LAWYERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TELEMARKETING (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (93%) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) LABATON, STEPHEN; STRATTON, HAROLD D JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GALL, MARY SHEILA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



631 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: ARAB POLITICS; 
Saudi to Warn Bush of Rupture Over Israel Policy

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 24 

 BODY:
Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia is expected to tell President Bush in stark terms at their meeting on Thursday that the strategic relationship between their two countries will be threatened if Mr. Bush does not moderate his support for Israel's military policies, a person familiar with the Saudi's thinking said today. 
 In a bleak assessment, he said there was talk within the Saudi royal family and in Arab capitals of using the "oil weapon" against the United States, and demanding that the United States leave strategic military bases in the region. 
 Such measures, he said, would be a "strategic debacle for the United States." 
He also warned of a general drift by Arab leaders toward the radical politics that have been building in the Arab street. 
The Saudi message contained undeniable brinkmanship intended to put pressure on Mr. Bush to take a much larger political gamble by imposing a peace settlement on Israelis and Palestinians. 
But the Saudi delegation also brought a strong sense of the alarm and crisis that have been heard in Arab capitals.
"It is a mistake to think that our people will not do what is necessary to survive," the person close to the crown prince said, "and if that means we move to the right of bin Laden, so be it; to the left of Qaddafi, so be it; or fly to Baghdad and embrace Saddam like a brother, so be it. It's damned lonely in our part of the world, and we can no longer defend our relationship to our people."
Whatever the possibility of bluster, it is also clear that Abdullah represents not just Saudi Arabia but also the broader voice of the Arab world, symbolized by the peace plan he submitted and that was endorsed at an Arab summit meeting in March.
Those familiar with the prince's "talking points" said he would deliver a blunt message that Mr. Bush is perceived to have endorsed -- despite his protests to the contrary -- Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's military incursion into the West Bank. 
Abdullah believes Mr. Bush has lost credibility by failing to follow through on his demand two weeks ago that Mr. Sharon withdraw Israeli troops from the West Bank and end the sieges of Yasir Arafat's compound in Ramallah and of the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem.
If those events occur and Mr. Bush makes a commitment "to go for peace" by convening an international conference, as his father did after the Persian Gulf war, to press for a final settlement and a Palestinian state, the Saudi view would change dramatically.
But those close to the Saudi delegation said there was no expectation that Mr. Bush is prepared to apply the pressure necessary to force such an outcome. 
"The perception in the Middle East, from the far left to the far right, is that America is totally sponsoring Sharon -- not Israel's policies but Sharon's policies -- and anyone who tells you less is insulting your intelligence," the person familiar with Abdullah's thinking said.
Western analysts see the prince as a blunt Bedouin leader whose initiative is regarded by many Arabs as a gesture worthy of the late Egyptian leader Anwar el-Sadat, who flew to Jerusalem in 1973 to sue for peace with Menachem Begin. Abdullah's offer, now the Arab world's offer, calls for recognition of Israel and "normal relations" in return for a Palestinian state on lands Israel occupied in 1967.
The Saudi assessment was apparently being conveyed through several private channels. 
On Tuesday President Bush's father had lunch with the Saudi foreign minister, Saud al-Faisal, and the kingdom's longtime ambassador to Washington, Prince Bandar bin Sultan. Their specific message could not be learned, but in the familial setting, where Barbara Bush was also the hostess for Princess Haifa, Prince Bandar's wife, the strong strategic and personal ties of the Persian Gulf war that characterized Saudi-American relations a decade ago was a message in itself. 
Abdullah, in a luncheon today with Vice President Dick Cheney, was to convey the seriousness with which he regards the Thursday meeting with President Bush as a "last chance" for constructive relations with the Arab world. 
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, also flew to Houston to join in last-minute discussions before the summit meeting. A senior official in Washington said Mr. Rumsfeld and General Myers were dispatched to brief the prince personally on the American accomplishments in Afghanistan and in the broader war on terrorism. 
"The idea was, if he thought we were strong in Desert Storm, we're 10 times as strong today," one official said. "This was to give him some idea what Afghanistan demonstrated about our capabilities."
United States military commanders in the Persian Gulf region have been building up command centers and equipment depots in Qatar and Kuwait in recent months in anticipation of a possible breach with Riyadh.
Saudi officials assert that American presidents since Richard M. Nixon have been willing to speak more forcefully to Israeli leaders than the current president when American interests were at stake.
"If Bush freed Arafat and cleared Bethlehem, it would be a big victory, show a stiffening of spine," the person close to Abdullah said. "But incremental steps are no longer valid in these circumstances," meaning that Mr. Bush would have to follow up with a major push to fulfill the longstanding expectation of the Palestinians for statehood.
The mood in the Saudi camp was that of gloom and anxiety in private even as Saudi and American officials went ahead with preparations for a warm public encounter with the Bush family. 
On Friday, after his meeting with President Bush at his home in Crawford, Abdullah is to take a long train ride to College Station, the central Texas town where the former President Bush will be host at his presidential library. On Saturday, Saudi's Arabia's state oil company is gathering the luminaries of the international energy industry to dine with Abdullah and his party.
But the person close to the prince said that if the summit talks went badly, Abdullah might not complete his stay in Texas. Instead, he might return directly to Riyadh and call for a summit meeting of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, to report to its 44 leaders, who represent 1.2 billion Muslims. 
"He wants to say, 'I looked the president of the U.S. in the eye and have to report that I failed,' " this person said. His message to the Arabs will be, "Take the responsibility in your own hands, my conscience is clear, before history, God, religion, country and friends."
The person close to Abdullah pointed out that Saudi Arabia's recent assurances that it would use its surplus oil-producing capacity to blunt the effects of Saddam Hussein's 30-day suspension of Iraqi oil exports could quickly change. 
That Saudi pledge "was based on a certain set of assumptions, but if you change the assumptions, all bets are off," he said. "We would no longer say what Saddam said was an empty threat, because there come desperate times when you give the unthinkable a chance."
Abdullah is reported to be bitter over the White House's assertion that the president is taking a balanced approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and he wants to evaluate in person whether Mr. Bush understands how his actions are being perceived in the Arab world. 
"This is not a mistake or a policy gaffe," the person close to Abdullah said, referring to Mr. Bush's approach. "He made a strategic, conscious decision to go with Sharon, so your national interest is no longer our national interest; now we don't have joint national interests. What it means is that you go your way and we will go ours, economically, militarily and politically -- and the antiterror coalition would collapse in the process." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the Texas visit of Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to meet with President Bush about the two countries' relations and about the Saudi proposal for peace in the Middle East misstated the year that another Arab leader, Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt, traveled to Jerusalem to discuss his ideas for peace. It was 1977, not 1973.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); RELIGION (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHURCH OF THE NATIVITY (BETHLEHEM); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%) TYLER, PATRICK E; ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (79%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA; WEST BANK; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK); BETHLEHEM (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



632 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Ad Slump at AOL to Cause Parent to Miss 2002 Goals
AOL Time Warner said it would not achieve its original financial goals for 2002 because of a slump in advertising at America Online.
 The company announced first-quarter results that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, even though it posted a $54.2 billion net loss, the result of an expected charge reflecting a decline in the company's value. Page C6. 

Fiorina Defends Her Management
In a series of combative courtroom exchanges, Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, vigorously defended the judgment of her management team in not disclosing to shareholders internal reports that raised doubts about the benefits of the company's planned merger with Compaq Computer. A judge is considering whether to throw out the results of a shareholder vote. C8.

Bush's New Safety Agency Nominee
President Bush's second nominee to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Harold D. Stratton, appears before Congress today. He faces little opposition so far. C5.

Microsoft Chairman Ends Testimony
In his last day of testimony, Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, acknowledged that a stripped-down version of Windows that he has said would be impossible to produce is already being sold to some customers. C8.

Fannie and Freddie in the Hot Seat
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored companies that help finance home loans, are being taken to task over their disclosure policies and exemptions from securities rules. Market Place. C2.

AT&T Reports Fifth Decline in a Row
AT&T said it lost almost $1 billion in the first quarter while its revenue shrank more than 11 percent, the fifth consecutive quarterly decline. The results were generally in line with its forecast offered in January. C2.

Jean C. Monty resigned as chairman and chief executive of BCE, parent of Bell Canada. World Business, Section W.

Promise of Faster Accounting Rules
The new chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Robert H. Herz, promised to try to speed decisions by the body. C5.

TRW Shareholders Have Their Say
Shareholders of TRW struck down two measures that would have smoothed the way for Northrop Grumman to proceed with a $6.7 billion hostile takeover. The shareholders also narrowly voted in favor of allowing Northrop access to TRW's confidential financial statements, leaving open the prospect of a successful Northrop bid. C12.

Xerox Reports a Preliminary Loss
Xerox lost $64 million in the first quarter, but will restate earnings as part of an agreement that settled a two-year investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Xerox is changing the way it allocates revenue and profit for equipment leases, and is revising five years worth of numbers. Xerox shares closed at $9.72, up 18 cents. C12.

Bill Barring Bias Advances in Senate
A Senate committee approved a measure to prohibit job discrimination based on sexual orientation. The Senate could take up the bill this year but the House is unlikely to. A26.

Argentine Leader Reverses Course
Argentina's president, Eduardo Duhalde, abandoned an unpopular plan to convert billions of dollars in bank deposits into long-term bonds. There were signs the government might re-peg the peso to the dollar. A12.

How Shared Knowledge Adds Value
What do weddings, the Super Bowl and inaugurations have in common? They all involve a shared knowledge of a single event, and that knowledge adds value to the event. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,030.43 down 58.81Nasdaq composite -- 1,713.34 down 16.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.11% down 0.06The euro -- $0.8920 up 0.0035The dollar -- 129.64 yen down 0.52 Graph tracks Xerox share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ACCOUNTING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); MERGERS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PRODUCT SAFETY (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (61%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (60%); DISCRIMINATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (52%); XEROX CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); NOC (NYSE) (52%); XRX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (52%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BILL GATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002 



633 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2159 words

HEADLINE: Writings That Defy Time's Toll 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL FRANK; Michael Frank is a short-story writer and book critic.

 BODY:
In Italian there are a number of vivid words for odd mixtures of things. A minestrone is of course a soup of assorted vegetables; a polpettone is a meatloaf of different ingredients; accozzaglia suggests a certain melange of elements drawn from hither and thither and generally unmatched, or incompatible. Much of this nomenclature originates in the kitchen, where, as so often in Italy, disparate elements are artfully combined into the makings of a feast.
 Something similar might be said of "Victorians, Moderns and Beats: New in the Berg Collection, 1994-2001," an exhibition that opens today at the New York Public Library. The title is a little misleading: among the manuscripts, letters, books, juvenilia and realia on display, Victorian material is modest, modern prolific, Beat largely weighted toward Jack Kerouac. There is no particular story being told here, other than that of a shopping spree, seven years long -- but it is shopping of a culturally significant variety, as the Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection of English and American Literature grows and stretches to preserve larger and larger swaths of the tangible record of our literary past. 
 Time is the great unstated theme present in these glass and steel cases. Time as one measure of a writer's reputation, and endurance. Time as the prison warden to all sentient beings, whose ideas about sexuality, politics, mental illness and justice are often painfully limited by the thinking of a particular moment, or context. Time as both an instigator of and liberator from pain that can be human, relational or professional (if only young, anxious Jack Kerouac had known the fate of "On the Road"; if only John Cheever had realized he didn't need to envy, he would easily hold his own against the competition; if only Dylan and Caitlin Thomas had stopped fighting so hard!).
Time imposing an often heart-rending poignancy on this whole enterprise of looking back: at the good-girl Sylvia Plath, making tender drawings for her sick brother (of herself she says: "She is the one who smiles, and is always polite"); at Vanessa Bell perceiving young Virginia Woolf's fragility; at E. B. White having an insight about New York City so prescient as to make one's chest tighten at the mystery and the power of perception.
A certain amount of time has to happen before these scraps of paper are deemed worthy of being collected. How does one know -- of contemporary writers -- when their moment has come? "This is something that goes on in the head of every curator," says Isaac Gewirtz, who has been the Berg's custodian since last fall. "You pay attention to reputations. You think of the established areas of concentration. You read and develop your own interests. But most curators will say you never regret what you've bought -- you regret what you haven't."
Time (or rather timing), economics, scholarship, intuition: these are the factors that mold any collection. And then there are circumstance and coincidence, an "Aspern Papers"-like congruence of human behavior and want, detective work and attic clearing. Thus you find a friend, biographer and executor of Walt Whitman's pasting examples of the poet's writing into an album that, 150 years later, are lifted off the page to reveal, on their verso, some unknown aphoristic fragments. You find Allen Ginsberg's stepmother, on her way to an assisted-living residence, coming upon a folder of the poet's letters home. You find W. H. Auden's Italian translator sitting on a striking group of letters since the mid-1960's. And you find Caitlin Thomas's son by her companion Giuseppe Fazio, an Italian actor, in possession of Thomas's wallet. All are now in the Berg.
Time lends a kind of magical sheen to a writer's juvenilia; backward-glancing and biography-reading, we think we can see the future previewed in these block-written, drawing-embellished bits and pieces. The Berg has Plath imaginatively cheering her brother: who can look at that lovingly traced dog and read those words and not think of the visceral rebellion against smiling and politeness that lay ahead in her life?
There is an album kept by John Auden, the poet's brother, "Summer Holidays 1913," which Mr. Gewirtz has cunningly opened to a photograph of the famously unathletic Auden practicing his climbing skills. What to make of that? Or of Christopher Isherwood dictating (to his mother) "The Adventures of a Daddie and a Mummie": is it possible for a 4-year-old to contain the seed of a memoirist? ("Kathleen and Frank: The Autobiography of a Family," his grown-up version of these adventures, appeared in 1971.)
As a boy, Isherwood devised an imaginary railway, where the fare was one bobbin for every station passed during a journey. Kerouac, in his boyhood, prepared an elaborate fantasy baseball game, seen here in various iterations. Although Mr. Gewirtz cannot say exactly how the game was played, he does display tables, cards, statistics, box scores, a board against which an eraser was tossed to initiate the game, handbills and "Baseball Chatter," Kerouac's newsletter that covered the exploits of managers and players on teams he named for automobiles (among them the Pittsburgh Plymouths, Boston Fords and Washington Chryslers).
In its detail and obsessiveness, at least, Kerouac's fantasy baseball evokes the Brontes' imaginary chronicles of Gondal and Angria: in the play of adolescence, lifelong lessons in craft, discipline and detail would appear to coalesce.

A Man of His Era
Time the imprisoner. This is the powerful one. Letter writers, like diarists, are locked in an eternal present; we read their letters and diaries from the vantage point of an ever-mutating, differently informed future.
You feel this gap with special ache in letters that Auden wrote to his brother John and to Aurora Ciliberto, his Italian translator, on the subject of his homosexuality.
"Though reason tells me that homosexuality is a derangement of nature, and, as a Christian, I must acknowledge that to be homosexual is to be in sin," he writes to Ciliberto, "I must honestly say that I have never had any feelings of guilt about the matter, nor felt in any way 'alienated' from normal people. But then I am in the fortunate position of having a vocation in life which is more important to me than personal relations."
This is Auden in one frame of mind. In another he writes to his brother that he is going to a psychoanalyst because "I wish to improve my inferiority complex and to develop heterosexual traits." In still another (again to Ciliberto), he postulates that his homosexuality is linked to the fact that when his father went into the army he was 7, the age when a boy first begins to "take notice" of his dad.
It is hard not to read these letters without wondering how Auden would think about his sexual nature in what is surely a much more enlightened, and accepting, social and psychological moment. 

The Pleasure of Hindsight
A different kind of ache comes forward as we read Vanessa Bell describing a walk her sister Virginia Woolf (whose family nickname at the time was Goat) took with their father, when she saw a woman on a bicycle collide with a cart: "The poor old Goat was in a dreadful state as you may think, and now she wants me to give up riding altogether, which of course I shan't do. It's very unlucky that it should always be the Goat who sees accidents." The unluckiness of Virginia always seeing the accidents: there's foresight for you.
Hindsight brings on a wry smile elsewhere. At Aldous Huxley, when he raises the carbon dioxide levels in his blood, which results in "swirling coloured patterns -- followed by a wonderful sense of detachment," as he writes to Raymond Mortimer. (We recognize this as just one of his many experiments with hallucinogenic drugs). At Anais Nin, who, in a reproachful (and most likely unsent) letter to her lover Henry Miller, complains, "When you were writing the erotica and said you must stop because of your integrity you didn't think of my integrity -- you should have." Isn't this a case of the kettle and the pot? ("Delta of Venus," Nin's own erotica and her most commercially successful book, was published posthumously in 1977.) 
Then there's Cheever, who pits himself first against Irwin Shaw (he "writes 17 pages a day, but he can't ski as well as I can") and next against J. D. Salinger. After being asked by William Shawn to trim one of his New Yorker short stories, while Salinger is allowed to go on at length, Cheever calls Shawn up, he reports in a letter to a friend, and says: "You can get that Godamned sixth-rate Salinger to write your Godamned short stories but don't expect anything more out of me. If you want to slam a door on someone's genitals find yourself another victim." To this we want to say (after "ouch"), "Dear Mr. C.: Not to worry, it turns out that there is room for all three of you on our reading docket."
The documents that stand most outside of time here are those that reveal writers thinking about their craft or at work on it, and they are among the richest. From V. S. Pritchett we hear that his real interest has been in "character, and to reveal character layer by layer." His stories, he writes, "are very compressed, so that by a word, a line or an image I can press what usually goes into a novel at great length, crystallized and intensified by being in the short form." From Ginsberg we hear that "Normal speech has great rhythms" and that "Certain impulses like howling or screeching, & certain material, demands its own form."
Lawrence Durrell, differentiating himself from Nin, observes that "in my own case I prefer not to get too explicit, I feel I like to operate from the unconscious and not run the risk of writing theses."

Kerouac the Reviser
The writer as reviser, or annotator, always compels. The myth of Kerouac's composition of "On the Road" -- written in three exhilarating, breathless weeks, in one draft on a single 120-foot scroll -- is here dispelled by examples of both preceding fragments and subsequent, extensively edited and rewritten typescripts. This material is part of the Berg's recently acquired compendious Kerouac archive, organized by the author himself, that joins previously collected material and now appears to include almost everything of significance but the scroll.
The latter was bought at auction last year by James Irsay, owner of the Indianapolis Colts. In the interests of scholarship, it can only be hoped, he will one day see to it that the scroll joins its brothers at the Berg.
Plath's copy of T. S. Eliot's "Four Quartets" shows her to be the most diligent of students and readers: there is an annotation on virtually every line. Eliot himself revises his opinion of Thomas Hardy (in a letter to Roy Morrell, a fellow director of Faber and Faber), though of Hardy's poetry he says he should have "pruned down his collection to the best."
The poet Louis Zukovsky writes "rubbish" next to one of his own images, and from Saul Bellow there is an instructive example of the revising writer. In a fragment from "Humboldt's Gift," the sentence "Much later I visited the Ilscombe, the scene of Humboldt's death," Mr. Bellow changes the final phrase to "to see where Humboldt died," thereby retaining the narrator, Charlie Citrine, as the agent of the sentence, and action.
"The place was tacky, a sewer stink coming from the pipes," Mr. Bellow writes farther on; then he changes "a sewer stink" to "sewer-gusts." The phrase is less obvious -- we expect a sewer to stink; its gusts take us by surprise. What a pro.

A Fear for the Island Fantasy
And now back to time -- and in time, to 1949, when E. B. White published "Here Is New York," his paean to the city. The Berg has White's own uncorrected proof copy, with his pencil emendations. Here is one passage White did not especially mark, but of course we now do, and have been since Sept. 11:
"The city, for the first time in its long history, is destructible. A single flight of planes no bigger than a wedge of geese can quickly end this island fantasy, burn the towers, crumble the bridges, turn the underground passages into lethal chambers, cremate the millions. The intimation of mortality is part of New York now: in the sound of jets overhead, in the black headlines of the latest edition."
"Of all targets," White continues, "New York has a certain clear priority. In the mind of whatever perverted dreamer might loose the lightning, New York must hold a steady, irresistible charm."
It is hard to know what to feel in the face of such foreshadowing except humbled. Time does that, above all.

Literary Lore
"Victorians, Moderns and Beats: New in the Berg Collection, 1994-2001" opens today in the Gottesman Exhibition Hall at the New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089. The show runs through July 27. Hours: Mondays and Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free admission.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A proposal for the cover of Kerouac's "On the Road," at the New York Public Library. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. E29); A letter by W. H. Auden to his brother John, at the Public Library. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. E37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LIBRARIES (75%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); PRISONS (51%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 

PERSON: FRANK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



634 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Skating on Top of the World During an Endless Summer

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
The critical difference between "Dogtown and Z-Boys," a giddy, thrilling, rock 'n' roll-saturated history of skateboarding in Southern California and any number of other documentaries that peek into pop subcultures is that the creators of "Dogtown" are legends in the world celebrated by their movie.
 The director, Stacy Peralta, was one of the first teenage skateboarding stars of the 1970's in the low-riding, bad-boy style known as Dogtown that revolutionized the sport. At 19 he abandoned his career as a skateboarder to team up with a stakeboarding manufacturer and become involved in videos and team sponsorship. The production designer of "Dogtown," Craig Stecyk, who wrote the film with Mr. Peralta, is a leading video and film producer in the surf and skateboard world. As a photojournalist in the 70's, his articles for Skateboarder magazine spearheaded the revival of a culture that had petered out after a brief flare-up in the mid-1960's. 
 "Dogtown and Z-Boys," which has won audience awards at the Sundance and AFI film festivals, could be described as a shrewd entrepreneurial exercise in self-mythologizing. But as this taut, viscerally propulsive insider's history of the sport in its early years skids and leaps forward with a jaunty visual panache, it is impossible not to be seduced by its hard-edged vision of an endless teenage summer.
The movie, narrated by Sean Penn, tells in slangy detail how skateboarding spun itself off the Southern California surf culture in the blighted area of South Santa Monica and Venice, nicknamed Dogtown. In the crumbling piers of an abandoned amusement park, a competitive, daredevil surf culture evolved with an unofficial clubhouse that was a local surf shop owned by Jeff Ho, Skip Engblom and Mr. Stecyk. These three formed the Zephyr Skateboard Team with local teenagers, many from broken homes.
As the sport evolved, technology, city planning and natural disaster played crucial roles in its development. The invention of urethane wheels (replacing the clay ones) made skateboarding faster, sleeker and less accident-prone. The earliest testing grounds for new moves became the sloping asphalt wastelands around certain grade schools.
When one of the worst droughts in California history emptied many of that area's swimming pools, they became laboratories in which the most daring skateboarders began leaping above the lip of the pool, inventing a whole new vocabulary. One of the film's most entertaining sidetracks is the story of the team's search for empty or even half-empty pools, which they would drain with equipment brought to the site.
The Zephyr team gained national attention in 1975 when its members competed at the Bahne-Cadillac Skateboard Championship (better known as the Del Mar Nationals). Overnight, a galaxy of teenage skateboarding stars rose to prominence. One of the biggest was Jay Adams, a phenomenally gifted 13-year-old virtuoso whose improvisational style is described as stream of consciousness. Others included Tony Alva, a cocky, charismatic figure who is remembered as the sport's Michael Jordan and Dennis Rodman rolled into one; and Mr. Peralta, the most entrepreneurially farsighted of the three. All appear in the movie -- which opens today in Manhattan, Los Angeles and Phoenix -- as they are now.
The golden days are resurrected in explosive, freewheeling montages that synchronize old home movies and Mr. Stecyk's photographs with a rock soundtrack that spits out fragments of Jimi Hendrix, Ted Nugent, Aerosmith, Neil Young and others into a synergistic rush that captures the sport's exuberant bad-boy aesthetic and lends it a mystical glamour. Beyond being an exhibition of physical prowess and daring, the essence of skateboarding excellence is that elusive personal quality known as style. That's why the movie's suggestion that skateboarding is an art form -- with its emphasis on grace, inventiveness and self-expression -- don't seem so far-fetched.
But the very elements that lend "Dogtown and Z-Boys" its special flavor -- its nostalgic insider's view and Mr. Stecyk's mythmaking visual bravura -- also work against the movie in small ways. Because the story is limited to the exploits of the Zephyr team, the film doesn't examine that group's accomplishments in the light of the sport's subsequent evolution. And its depiction of life after teenage stardom only barely begins to skirt the downside -- the crash after the high. And yes, for all the valuable cultural history it evokes, "Dogtown and Z-Boys" is at heart a promotional film.
"Dogtown and Z-Boys" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some strong language.

DOGTOWN AND Z-BOYS

Directed by Stacy Peralta; written by Mr. Peralta and Craig Stecyk; director of photography, Peter Pilafian; edited by Paul Crowder; music by Terry Wilson and Mr. Crowder; production designer, Mr. Stecyk; produced by Agi Orsi; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Sean Penn (Narrator) and Jay Adams, Tony Alva, Bob Biniak, Paul Constantineau, Shogo Kubo, Jim Muir, Peggy Oki, Stacy Peralta, Nathan Pratt, Wentzle Ruml and Allen Sarlo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKATEBOARDING (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); FESTIVALS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (60%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; PERALTA, STACY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: DOGTOWN AND Z-BOYS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



635 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Buying Refuge in Uncertain Times

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
STUART EPSTEIN'S business selling homes in the Hamptons evaporated right after the Sept. 11 attacks. "People who had not yet signed contracts backed out, saying life was too uncertain, that they couldn't go forward in a situation like this, that they didn't know if they would even have jobs anymore," said Mr. Epstein, who owns Devlin McNiff, a real estate brokerage firm. "Real-estate folks hunkered down for bad times." 
 The bad times did not materialize, and the market slowly but surely regained its equilibrium. "Right after the turn of the year, it took off like a rocket and it has been red-hot ever since, even to the point of bidding wars," Mr. Epstein said. 
 Real-estate brokers from Camden, Me., to Long Beach Island, N.J., and from the Berkshire Mountains to the Poconos, agree with Mr. Epstein that sales of second homes in vacation places are strong. Prompting people to buy is not only a desire to have a refuge after Sept. 11, but also a nervousness about shrinking investment portfolios. Mortgage rates, at only slightly more than 7 percent, are a lure as well. Even Enron has helped increase real-estate sales. "Enron is symbolic for the feeling people have that they can't get a fair shake in the securities market, or that it has hit a plateau and there is nowhere to go with savings and investments, while real estate is solid and real and keeps chugging along," Mr. Epstein said. Mortgage rates can also make buying more attractive than renting. 
"A summer rental price is generally about 5 percent of the value of the house, so a $1 million house should rent for about $50,000," said Diane Saatchi, the president of Dayton-Halstead Real Estate in the Hamptons. But she also thinks that deeper psychological causes are behind the robust market. "Fear of the stock market and low interest rates are rationalizations," she said. "What people really want is to feel good. There is not much you can do about terrorism. You can't make your kids feel safe, you can't find bin Laden, but buying a second home makes you feel positive." 
"Also," she said, "people don't care about debt. Debt is like high cholesterol and getting fat. Why worry about tomorrow? People are saying: 'Why waste money renting? Let's buy, and we'll all be together. So what if we're paying top dollar?' " 
After renting a house on Fire Island for 10 years, Chris Corwin, an orthopedic implant salesman, bought a three-bedroom shingled saltbox early this year for $400,000 in the Springs, on eastern Long Island. 
In September, he is to marry Kristin Thompson, an analyst at OppenheimerFunds, who escaped from her office in the World Trade Center Sept. 11. "We're planning to stay in Manhattan, but just knowing we have a place to go if we want to leave is a good feeling," Mr. Corwin said. "In addition, I wanted a tax shelter and an investment. My personal feeling is that the stock market will come back, but I wanted to change my concentration to real estate because, long-term, it is a sounder investment." 
Mr. Corwin is part of the recovery that has been going on in the second-home market since the beginning of the year. According to a report issued this month by Cook Pony Farm, a real-estate agency with 10 offices, six in the Hamptons, the number of closings in the first quarter of this year was 25 percent lower than for the same period last year, based on deeds recorded by Suffolk County. In dollar amounts, however, the drop was only 1.1 percent. Judi Desiderio, the vice president at Cook Pony Farm, said there was a surge in the number of contracts that were signed in recent weeks, "with both our fall and spring buyers" coming to "the plate at the same time." 
"We are seeing staggering numbers," she said. "For the month of February in our agency, there was an increase of 80.1 percent in the number of offers and acceptances over the numbers in February last year, followed by March, which had a 100 percent increase over March 2001. That shows a feeding frenzy in full force, but those numbers won't show up in closings until the summer."
Sales are also strong on the Jersey shore. At Diane Turton Realtors, for example, there were 55 percent more contracts signed for second homes in Monmouth County, which includes communities like Manasquan, Spring Lake and Bradley Beach, in the first quarter of this year compared with the same period last year. The average price for a second house in the county, $800,000, was up about 12 percent, said Tino Columbo, a statistician for the firm. His survey also showed that in Ocean County, which includes Bay Head, Mantolokingand Seaside Park, there were 90 percent more properties under contract, with an average house price rise of 15 percent, to $700,000. 
Prices have also risen for country houses. In New York State, the Columbia and Northern Dutchess County Multiple Listing Service recorded 143 house sales for this year's first quarter, up from 133 in the same quarter last year. The average house price rose from $195,676 to $203,048.
"Like many other places, we are experiencing a boom," said Chuck Bartolo, a partner at Beach & Bartolo Realtors in Spencertown, N.Y., whose domain is rural Columbia County. "Since 9/11, I've been hearing people say, 'I need to be in New York for business, but I also need to know I have a place in which to get away.' In fact, I'm seeing many more all-cash deals, more than I've seen in the last 10 years, which tells me that people have taken their money out of the market and are unsure about going back in." 
Though properties vary in size in the area, "we don't have overdevelopment," Mr. Bartolo said recently as he toured a 1790 house on 98 acres. The house was bought by its current owners in 1999 for $530,000; today, the asking price is $795,000.
For almost two years, Arline and Blair Rubel have been scouting the region for a house close to skiing, fly-fishing and golf. During that time, "we have definitely seen prices go up," said Ms. Rubel, who owns the Town and Country Companion and Nursing Agency in Manhattan. "Originally, we were looking in the Berkshires, where taxes are 50 to 70 percent less than they are in New York, and the closing costs are substantially less," she said, "but the houses cost more."
Mel Greenberg, the owner of Alford Farm Realty in Alford, Mass., near Great Barrington, agreed with Ms. Rubel's assessment. If you took a house in Hillsdale, in Columbia County, and moved it to Egremont in Berkshire County, "it would go up by 35 percent," he said. "A remarkable thing has been happening here. Houses have been selling for $2 million, which was unheard of before. A house came on the market today in Alford for $2 million that is not old, not on a large property and is a reproduction 19th-century colonial."
Still, it is not necessary to break the million-dollar ceiling to buy in the region. "For $250,000 to $400,000, you could probably get a town house, a fixer-upper in Great Barrington," Mr. Greenberg said. "For $400,000 to $800,000, you might find an older home with maybe three to five acres, and you might still have to do some work on it." 
In Fire Island Pines, an affluent community on Fire Island, "we've gotten lots of calls from people who want to buy as investments and don't know what to do with their money," said Ken Lesser, the owner of Pines Harbor Realty. 
Mr. Lesser sold three houses for more than $1.3 million each last fall. "For what they are, that's still cheap," he said. "Two of them are on the ocean and one is on the bay.
"Whatever is available sells immediately," he added, explaining that there is always a reservoir of prospective buyers in the Pines. 
"Renters at the beach are buyers- in-training," he said. "Like camp, the same people come back year after year, and they are all moving along the economic ladder, so eventually they become buyers."
I N the western Fire Island communities of Fair Harbor, Dunewood and Lonelyville, a broker, Kitty King, said: "There is simply nothing, nothing, nothing to sell. I have had to turn away people looking to spend $350,000 to $450,000. I think owners are staying and using their homes because the island is safe and beautiful."
In Maine, Terry Sortwell, a regional manager and principal in LandVest, who specializes in the Boothbay Harbor-Camden-Blue Hill area, said: "A year ago, people looking for properties over $1 million were cautious, and that part of the market was slow, but since Christmas the phone has been ringing from all over the United States, from Texas and Florida. Now, buyers are beginning to make offers over $2 million."
Mr. Sortwell recently closed on a 200-acre island with two farmhouses and deep-water docks for $3.5 million. "The island market has been incredibly strong in the last three years," he said.
Extravagant though it may seem, buying an island can be a reasonable venture compared with buying a residence on the mainland. "A 200-acre peninsula on the mainland would be worth more than $3.5 million," Mr. Sortwell said. "The thinking is, 'I can buy an island and it will be worth much more in the future.' In fact, there is a brisk business to be done in islands."
Rhode Island is another New England market that is experiencing renewed vigor. "We are constantly being told that Rhode Island is undervalued compared to other coastal areas," said Melanie Delman, the president of Lila Delman Real Estate, an affiliate of Christie's Great Estates, with offices in Narragansett, Newport and Watch Hill, R.I. "There are very strong signs of the market picking up. We are three hours from New York, two from New Canaan, Conn., and the traffic is not as bad as it is to the Cape. If you want quiet, you can go to Watch Hill, Narragansett and Jamestown. If you want excitement, you go to Newport."
Newport appears to be shedding its exclusive persona. "In Newport, you can get anything from a cottage to a castle, and, in fact, in Newport, large mansions used to be called cottages," Ms. Delman said. "You can get small beach homes in the high $200,000 range, but you can also get mansions for well over $2 million. Newport's image is a real mix. It has old clubs and beautiful estates, but it also has a lot of new and young money, and properties in various ranges and is not gated in any way."
As a result, she said, "The New York market is starting to discover us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PRICE RANGE -- This Quogue house, top, is $2.2 million. The Columbia County farmhouse, center, is $165,000, and the house above, also in Columbia County, is $469,000. (Ed Betts for The New York Times); (Photographs by Will Waldron for The New York Times)(pg. F8); FOR LESS THAN $300,000 -- This house in Westhampton, top, was put on the market for $270,000. Above, this condominium in Newport, R.I., has a three-bedroom apartment that was listed for $265,000. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ORTHOPEDICS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); CHOLESTEROL (50%) HOUSING; SALES 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (60%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (60%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (59%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



636 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Before Grade Inflation 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Gamut of Grades From A to B+" (letters, April 25), about the effort at Harvard to rehabilitate the honor of the B plus, addressing concerns that too many Harvard undergraduates are receiving too many A's: 
 When I applied to a doctoral program at Stanford in the 1960's, the committee asked me how my Graduate Record Exam scores could be quite high and yet my grade point average, at the University of Chicago, was only a C plus. I replied that my G.R.E. scores were at the average for that school, and so were my grades.

BARAK ROSENSHINE
Urbana, Ill., April 25, 2002

The writer is professor emeritus at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); GRADES & GRADING (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); WRITERS (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: ROSENSHINE, BARAK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



637 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Compensation For Workers Rose Slightly In Quarter 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The Labor Department reported today that its employment cost index rose 0.8 percent in the first three months of the year.
 The index -- a broad measure of changes in workers' compensation -- was down from a seasonally adjusted 1 percent rise in the previous quarter. 
 The first-quarter increase in compensation was the smallest since a 0.4 percent gain posted in the first quarter of 1999. 
"Employers aren't sure whether this recovery is for real and whether it will last," said Clifford Waldman, an economist at Waldman Associates. "Until they are confident that it is here to stay, they are not going to make big commitments in hiring or investing in projects and they are not going to really boost compensation." 
The wages and salaries component of the index grew 0.8 percent in the first quarter, slightly slower than the 0.9 percent rise in the fourth quarter of 2001.
A second Labor Department report today showed that fewer Americans filed new claims for jobless benefits last week. Claims fell a seasonally adjusted 31,000, to 421,000, the lowest level in a month.
The more stable four-week moving average of new claims, which smooths out week-to-week fluctuations, rose last week to 452,500, the highest level since early November.
A requirement that laid-off workers seeking to take advantage of a federal extension for benefits must submit new claims caused a distortion.
The number of workers continuing to receive unemployment benefits, however, dipped to 3.7 million for the workweek ended April 13. That encouraged some economists.
In a third report, sales of previously owned homes, coming off the two highest months on record, fell 8.3 percent in March, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.40 million, which is still a robust level of activity, the National Association of Realtors reported. The level of sales in March was the sixth strongest on record.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks figures, highlighting the 4-week moving average, from November through April.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; EMPLOYMENT COST INDEX (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; HOUSING; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



638 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Higher Premiums Help Profit Rise 6.7% at American International 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Premiums from commercial insurance jumped 30 percent at the American International Group in the first quarter and contributed to a 6.7 percent increase in profit, the company said yesterday. Its chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, said he expected strong price increases to continue for the next year or two.
 Prices for some lines of coverage have doubled and tripled since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which cost the industry $50 billion. 
 The price increases -- at A.I.G. and other insurers -- stem from greater demand for coverage from corporate America in an era of intense security concerns as well as the efforts of many insurers to ration coverage to minimize their own risks. With its great financial strength -- about $52 billion in capital -- A.I.G. is able to fulfill customers' appetites for coverage and charge top rates.
"We have the capacity corporate America needs," Mr. Greenberg said in a conference call discussing the A.I.G. results.
Though most big American corporations routinely conduct conference calls when they release their quarterly earnings, the call yesterday was a first for Mr. Greenberg. In the past, he had chosen to discuss A.I.G.'s performance at a small annual conference at his headquarters, meetings that analysts and investors referred to as fireside chats.
Mr. Greenberg reported yesterday that A.I.G.'s operating income had risen 11.1 percent, to $2.13 billion or 81 cents a share, an increase that was in line with analysts' expectations. Because of losses on capital gains, net income rose to $1.98 billion, or 75 cents a share, compared with $1.86 billion, or 70 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
"Historically, A.I.G.'s operating earnings have increased 15 to 17 percent," said Ira Zuckerman, an analyst at Nutmeg Securities in Fairfield, Conn. "But right now, with lower interest rates, they're getting less investment income. They're still paying for losses from the September attacks. And they're not getting the full effects of the price increases. But they're moving in the right direction."
Just as in the fireside chats, the questions for Mr. Greenberg, who has been running A.I.G. for nearly 35 years and is known for his combativeness, were mild and deferential. 
Several analysts, for example, thanked him for holding the conference call, though the switch was clearly intended to counter criticism that A.I.G., which operates in 130 countries, is difficult to understand.
Since the collapse of Enron, A.I.G. and other big, complex companies have been suffering from suspicions that perhaps there has been more to their long run of steadily rising earnings than meets the eye. No one asked Mr. Greenberg to comment on the slide in A.I.G.'s stock, which has been declining from a peak of $103.69 in late 2000. Yesterday, shares of A.I.G. were unchanged at $68.34.
Analysts say the stock has not only been hurt by the Enron affair and the lackluster economy but also by uncertainty about who will succeed Mr. Greenberg. He will be 77 next week. Only one analyst, Jay A. Cohen of Merrill Lynch, approached the issue. 
Mr. Cohen asked whether Mr. Greenberg would like to elaborate on a report in The New York Times that he would soon disclose details of a succession plan. Mr. Greenberg's response was taut. "No," he said. "You'll wait." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) COMPANY REPORTS; INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: GREENBERG, MAURICE R; TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



639 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Rule Could Let Mine Debris Fill In Valleys and Streams 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is preparing to allow the coal mining industry to fill waterways and valleys with the rock and dirt from mountaintop mining, particularly in West Virginia.
 But a proposal being circulated excludes trash, used tires, junked cars and discarded kitchen appliances as fill in waterways unless they are part of a structure, like artificial reefs or berms. The rule, which officials said was still being fine-tuned, is expected to be made final within two months. 
 Mining officials said that they sought the new regulation because too much confusion existed without it, and that being allowed to fill water and valleys with the so-called overburden from mines would let them produce electricity more cheaply. The practice has been used since the 1970's, with permits from the Army Corps of Engineers. 
Environmentalists oppose the regulation, saying that filling streams and valleys destroys the ecosystem of the waterways and forests, ruins the land for nearby communities and is a serious rollback of the Clean Water Act.
Greg Peck, deputy director of the wetlands division of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that the agency was reviewing the economic benefits versus the environmental threats of the practice. In the meantime, Mr. Peck said, the agency wants to reconcile the different definitions of "fill" used by the agency and the Army Corps of Engineers without disrupting the status quo.
In the last three years, the corps has approved 75 permits for companies in West Virginia and 108 in Kentucky to fill valleys and streams with mine waste.
The administration has not announced the decision but circulated the proposal, with the final rule to be issued by Christie Whitman, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, probably in the next couple of months, officials said. The proposal mirrors one offered by the Clinton administration but abandoned after protests from environmentalists.
"It is not a giveaway to the mining industry," Ms. Whitman has said. "It does not allow activity that isn't already under way."
The environmental agency's proposal casts the decision as largely a technical matter that will not significantly alter current practice. Environmentalists agree that it would not alter current practice but say the Corps of Engineers' practice of issuing permits to mining companies to fill the valleys and waters is illegal. They have challenged it in federal court.
The environmentalists say that the permitting process is not a minor matter but one that has already erased more than 1,000 miles of streams in Appalachia because of extensive mountaintop mining, the practice of shearing off the tops of mountains to extract coal from thin seams.
"These are the changes that the mining industry wanted," said Daniel Rosenberg, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "They'll be allowed to dump more waste and more types of waste."
Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman for the National Mining Association, said the permits required careful construction of the fills, with drainage, so they did not disrupt aquatic life.
She said that the low-sulfur coal from these mines would go to utilities that provide electricity to about one million homes in West Virginia and that the proposal would allow the flow of power to continue. She said that 19 percent of the coal mined in West Virginia required such valley fill permits.
Joe Lovett, a lawyer in Lewisburg, W.Va., and executive director of the Appalachian Center for the Economy and the Environment, helped bring the legal challenges.
"Instead of following the law, the coal industry has persuaded the Bush administration to change the law," Mr. Lovett said.
Without the rule, he said, the mining companies would have to scale back their operations because they would have no place to dump their waste.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In mountaintop removal mining, like these examples near Kayford, W.Va., the tops of mountains are sheared off to get at the coal seams.; Christie Whitman, Environmental Protection Agency administrator. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COAL MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); WATER QUALITY (78%); WETLANDS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TIRES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ARMIES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (72%); LITIGATION (69%); LIGHT POLLUTION (67%) COAL; MINES AND MINING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WATER POLLUTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WEST VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



640 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: County Chief Urges Rise Of a Point In Sales Tax 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, April 25 

 BODY:
The Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, called for a percentage-point increase in the county sales tax in his State of the County address tonight, saying it was needed to help pay for state-mandated programs.
 The increase, which would require approval from both the County and State Legislatures, would generate $100 million and help close a projected budget deficit of $70 million for 2003. Mr. Spano said he would prefer a sales tax increase to a rise in county property taxes and so called his proposal the Property Tax Relief Act. 
 "If we raise the sales tax by one penny on the dollar, we can generate enough money to hold the line on property taxes," he said. "If we raise the sales tax by one penny, I do not have to cut the heart and soul out of our programs."
Mr. Spano said the county's budget was being overwhelmed by state-mandated spending on programs like Medicaid and services for children with disabilities.
The proposal calls for raising the county share of the sales tax to 3.5 percent from the current 2.5 percent -- except in Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, White Plains and Yonkers. In those cities, which impose their own additional sales taxes of 2 to 2.5 percent, the county share would remain at 1.5 percent.
When the state's 4 percent share and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's share of a quarter of a percentage point are factored in, sales taxes in Westchester would total 7.75 to 8.25 percent if Mr. Spano's proposal were approved. In Rockland County, sales taxes total 7.88 percent. In Nassau and Suffolk, they total 8.5 percent.
Shrinking sales tax revenues from the faltering economy and the cost of security measures following the Sept. 11 terror attack have hurt the county's financial health.
In his speech to the County Legislature, Mr. Spano said he was not against the state programs, but he railed against Albany for making county taxpayers finance them.
George Oros, a Republican legislator, said that he would oppose any sales tax increase. Last year, the Legislature whittled Mr. Spano's request for a 9.5 percent increase in the county property tax to 3.5 percent.
Mr. Spano said the county would send a quarter of the $100 million generated by the sales tax increase to towns, villages and school districts to help offset property taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX INCREASES (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) TAXATION; SALES TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



641 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2278 words

HEADLINE: Change in Rules Barred Many From Sept. 11 Disaster Relief 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES and DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
Almost eight months after the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has doled out less than $65 million to help needy families in the disaster area pay their bills, avoid eviction and buy food -- only a fraction of what the nation's frontline relief agency distributed in the months after other major catastrophes.
 Agency officials say one reason their payouts have been low is that thousands of people were denied housing aid after the agency decided to limit benefits to those who could prove that their lost income was a "direct result" of the attacks. That standard, which some FEMA officials now say may have been ill defined, goes beyond the laws and regulations that have traditionally governed disaster relief efforts. 
 As well, some agency officials acknowledge that their efforts have been plagued by management blunders and poor coordination with the vast array of private charities that responded last fall. For example, some 15,000 people got faulty aid applications that increased the risk they would be denied help. Hundreds of other victims were turned down because their claims were judged under outdated eligibility requirements, officials acknowledge. 
Both because of decisions they defend, and problems they regret, agency officials today concede that their attempts to reach all who need help in the New York region have fallen far short of its initial public promises and its own expectations. Government officials have estimated that about 75,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in income were lost to people in the New York disaster region.
While agency officials said they could not say exactly how many people might have been unfairly denied aid, they say it is certainly true that thousands of deserving families in the disaster zone in New York may lose their homes or apartments if they do not get FEMA's help.
The agency ultimately spent more than $1.4 billion on similar direct financial help to families affected by California's Northridge earthquake in 1994; at least $1 billion in Hurricane Georges, which struck Puerto Rico in 1998; and $220 million for storms and floods in Michigan two years ago. While those amounts were paid out over years, relief experts say the bulk of the payments occurred in the first months after the disasters.
Officials at the agency, including its director, Joseph Allbaugh, said they were doing everything possible to reach more victims, although they defended the new "direct result" requirement as fiscally responsible. "You have to draw the line somewhere or all 289 million Americans would be eligible," Mr. Allbaugh said in an interview yesterday.
Mr. Allbaugh warned against making payment comparisons between individual disasters the sole measure of how well the agency had responded. "There are always extenuating circumstances," he said, like the number of applicants and the geographic extent of the damage.
He also attributed the low numbers of people receiving aid at least in part to legislative limits and "proud New Yorkers" who have been reluctant to seek help. "I wish the numbers were higher, quite frankly," he said, urging the region's needy families to register with the agency before the deadline of Sept. 30. "FEMA is going to be there as long as we need to be there," he said.

Charities Cutting Back Aid
The agency's role in the continuing relief efforts is critically important because major charities have for months been sharply curtailing assistance to economic victims of the attacks, and unemployment benefits will soon expire. As documented in a study released this week by the United Way of New York City, evictions are surging and new requests for federal help are climbing.
Many FEMA programs -- emphasizing stopgap aid to repair homes and businesses -- were ill suited to the unusual nature of the Sept. 11 disaster. Unlike a flood or hurricane, where property destruction is widespread but economic effects are typically short-lived, these attacks brought physical devastation to a concentrated area but caused widespread and prolonged economic damage.
Yet the agency's arsenal did include a heretofore little-used program that everyone, including the agency's own officials, agreed was seemingly ideal for this calamity. 
The program covers up to 18 months of mortgage or rent payments for anyone in a major disaster area who lost at least 25 percent of his income "as a result" of the catastrophe. It offered just the sort of safety net that many people in New York and Virginia were seeking. 
But almost immediately, senior agency officials limited the program's potential usefulness by inserting a single word into its eligibility guidelines. The phrase "as a result" was changed to "as a direct result," which substantially raised the burden of proof on jobless workers trying to qualify.
Agency officials say the revision provoked fierce debate within the agency, a debate in which some officials, particularly those in New York City, argued that the program's rules should rather be stretched to the limit to accommodate an explosion of joblessness. "We lost that fight to the bosses in Washington," one agency official in New York said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The concern that thousands of needy families would be unable to meet the tightened standard has been borne out, the agency's records show. Seven of every 10 people who applied for the mortgage and rental program have been turned down, most commonly because they could not prove to the agency's satisfaction that their plight was a "direct result" of the disaster. The rejection rate is far higher than in other major relief efforts, records show.
Among those denied the agency's help after Sept. 11, according to interviews and records, were hundreds of Chinatown seamstresses, Manhattan hotel workers and taxi drivers. In one typical case, the agency refused to help a disabled veteran who sold hats and gloves on the sidewalks of lower Broadway, though he provided sworn statements from shopkeepers confirming that he was a regular vendor in the area.

Policy Change Defended
Mr. Allbaugh, who had publicly pledged to help "everyone affected by the tragic events," said that the policy change was necessary to make it clear that the program was not intended for the Las Vegas croupier laid off in the subsequent tourism slump. But many charity officials argue that the official disaster area designation gave Mr. Allbaugh all the leverage he needed to limit the program to New York and parts of northern Virginia affected by the attack on the Pentagon.
Increasingly frustrated by the agency's performance, some leaders of the large Sept. 11 charities assert that at virtually every turn victims encounter new objections from agency workers who have little grasp of New York City's geography and commercial life. That knowledge is often critical to their decisions on granting aid.
FEMA, with its vastly greater resources, "could be a safety net for the tens of thousands who lost their jobs," said Joshua Gotbaum, chief executive of the Sept. 11 Fund, the second-largest charity responding to the attacks. "However, until FEMA makes it easier to apply and clearer who is eligible, most victims won't tackle the paperwork, and most of those who do will continue to be rejected."
Aid to individuals is only one measure of the agency's response to the Sept. 11 attacks. The agency has spent nearly $1 billion on debris removal and family assistance centers, and $22 million more on mental health programs.

How Aid Was Distributed
The $65 million disbursed to Sept. 11 victims in the New York region includes $9 million in short-term jobless benefits; $37 million in temporary shelter for about 7,600 people; $5.4 million in small cash grants, and $13 million on mortgage and rental assistance. A far smaller amount has been spent on similar aid in northern Virginia.
Going forward, mortgage and rental assistance will be the agency's most important tool to help victims, officials agree. But before last fall, the agency actually had little experience with that kind of aid. In the last seven years, FEMA had distributed just $11.7 million in mortgage and rental aid, and $10.7 million of that was in a single disaster, a freeze that damaged California fruit orchards in 1998. (Whereas 29 percent of the Sept. 11 applicants were approved, 60 percent of nearly 6,000 Californians were approved.)
And once the agency decided to modify the eligibility rules, the unfamiliar program became even more baffling. There were no guidelines to help applicants, or the agency's own employees, distinguish which job losses were direct results of the attacks. Each attempt to define the key terms generated more confusion, victims and agency workers say. 
"I'll be honest with you," said one veteran agency official who asked not to be identified. "Some of them I understand and some of them I can't decipher."
As the agency's television announcements promised help to "all those who need it," the confusion over who could qualify for that help was growing. "There's really no guidance anywhere that the public has seen," said Jackson Chin, associate counsel at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. "There is nothing out there that helps the applicant make the case that their job loss was directly linked to Sept. 11."
Alfred J. Peck Jr., the director of social services for the Salvation Army in New York, is one of many charity officials who believe, incorrectly, that the program is open only to people living south of Houston Street, a cross street in Lower Manhattan. 

Almost Unknown in Virginia
In Virginia, the FEMA program for those economically affected by the Pentagon attacks is virtually invisible. Although the thousands of workers thrown out of work by the temporary closing of Reagan National Airport were specifically included in the program for mortgage and rent help, only 39 people in that area have applied. Five have been approved.
"This is incredible," said Jorge Rivera, the crisis response manager for Local 25 of the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union in Washington D.C. "I have a database of about 150 members who are in arrears on their mortgage or rent right now."
Applications for the program are approved or denied by agency evaluators, two-thirds of them temporary workers, at processing centers in Texas, Maryland and Virginia. It is unclear what instructions they were given about Sept. 11 aid applications. John Czwartacki, an agency spokesman, said the evaluation process was "more art than science," but he also acknowledged that it was "difficult to keep people trained" on the agency's eligibility standards.
It is clear, though, that evaluators have struggled to apply the new standards to a disaster as massively complex as Sept. 11. One agency evaluator did not know that 1 Liberty Plaza was in Lower Manhattan, let alone adjacent to the World Trade Center. Another insisted that garment workers were laid off because they were seasonal workers, despite government studies showing that the attacks cost the industry thousands of jobs.

'They Don't Have a Clue'
"You get these people answering the line, and they are nice people, they mean well, they try hard, but they don't have a clue about New York City," said Andrew Kashyap, a counselor for the Urban Justice Center who has worked with dozens of Sept. 11 families.
The program has been further hampered by its own application form. The form is only available in English, a major obstacle in New York.
Agency officials also failed to change the application form to make it possible for evaluators to determine whether job losses were directly related to the disaster. While the new standard stressed proximity to the World Trade Center as one key requirement, the application form failed to ask people to provide their employer's address. It also failed to provide a place for applicants to explain why their job loss was a "direct result" of the attacks, and lacked any explanation of how the agency defined "direct result." 
These lapses produced some strange results. One applicant, who had worked at a restaurant on the concourse of the World Trade Center, supplied the restaurant's name and his supervisor's telephone number at work, just as the application requested. His application records show that he was denied aid because an agency evaluator could not get through on the telephone to the now nonexistent restaurant.
Agency officials discovered the problem and changed the application form on Nov. 14. But by that time, 15,113 of the old mortgage and rental assistance applications had already been mailed out. And the new forms still give no explanation of "direct result."
By now, according to many relief officials, word of the agency's confusing standards has spread so widely that thousands of families do not even apply. In the New York area, for example, the agency has mailed out nearly 31,578 applications to people who had passed an initial telephone screening process. Of those, 10,968 sent in applications -- and only 3,178 ultimately got help, numbers that agency officials themselves find alarming.
Mr. Allbaugh urged residents to register with FEMA's hot line, 1-800-462-9029.
On a recent afternoon, six unemployed seamstresses gathered the Chinese Staff and Workers Association in Chinatown. All six had notarized letters from their employer, G.W. Fashion Inc. on Howard Street, stating they were fired in October "due to the tragic disaster of Sept. 11, 2001." All six also had FEMA application forms. They said the experience of co-workers had convinced them it was hopeless.
"It's as if they assume them criminals first," said Wing Lam, the association's director. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Winnowing Down Requests for HelpThe Federal Emergency Management Agency has only approved 29 percent of the New York area applications to its Mortgage and Rental Assistance program, a crucial safety net for those thrown out of work after the World Trade Center attack. Here is how the applications -- had been processed as of April 8. Applicants sent Mortgage and Rental Assistance (M.R.A) packets: 31,578M.R.A packets returned by applicants: 10,968 Cases pending initial review 284 Request to applicant for additional information: 521 Appeals approved: 1,063Initial applications approved: 2,854 Applications for continued assistance: 819Approved: 381Denied : 422 Pending review 16 Appeals denied: 1,063Pending: 29Initial applications denied: 7,309Appeals approved: 324 REASONS FOR DENIALS Various reasons: 2,011Delinquent mortgage/rent paid by other agencies: 91 Delinquency predated disaster: 521Loss of income not directly linked to disaster: 3,299Not yet facing eviction or foreclosure: 1,387 M.R.A packets not returned: 20,610 Appeals processed: 1,416 (Source: Federal Emergency Management Agency The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (91%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHARITIES (78%); HURRICANES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); PHILANTHROPY (68%); INTERVIEWS (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PHILANTHROPY; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (95%) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; BARSTOW, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



642 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Roosevelt Village Pins Its Hope on Revival of Its Main Street 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT, N.Y., April 25 

 BODY:
For a tiny village without a mayor, a movie theater or even a doughnut shop, Roosevelt has a huge reputation -- for its troubled school district, which earlier this month became the first to be taken over by New York State.
 But the schools' problems are only symptoms of a larger ailment. While residents debate whether the state's involvement in the schools will raise dismal test scores and ease crowded classrooms, the takeover cannot hope to address the economic problems that many here believe underpin the school system's plight. It will not bring the old skating rink back to Nassau Road, or sell the half-finished building that has stood vacant for more than a decade, or lure a Starbucks or Sylvia's restaurant to help boost the tax base. 
 Now, making good on a campaign promise, Nassau County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi has joined with political and civic leaders to kick off a planning process to revitalize Roosevelt, which has a solid base of middle-class homeowners but a downtown dotted with empty lots, drab delis and signs advertising shops that no longer exist.
The centerpiece of that plan will be a bid to attract vibrant businesses to Nassau Road, the village's main thoroughfare, where the Western Beef supermarket is the closest thing to a retail anchor.
"For decades, really, people have talked about things," Mr. Suozzi said today in an interview after a news conference introducing a four-day process in which residents will begin mapping out their dreams for Roosevelt. "There's been a lot of frustration in this community at what they've perceived as a lack of action."
While the plight of the Roosevelt school district has catapulted this one-square-mile unincorporated village into infamy, Mr. Suozzi said he believed that Roosevelt was emblematic of other Nassau communities that have suffered from the demise of their downtowns.
"This is just a good symbol of what we face in Nassau County, as a mature suburban community," Mr. Suozzi said. "This is a really dramatic example of how a commercial strip has defined a community in a negative way."
It was not always this way. Diana Coleman, 48, remembers the days when Nassau Road had a bowling alley and a movie theater, a florist and Flora's Fashions, her mother's dress shop. There were also Roosevelt stars: Julius Erving, Eddie Murphy and Howard Stern all went to high school here.
But over the last 30 years or so, Roosevelt has suffered. Many residents in this community, which is 90 percent black and Hispanic, say it suffered at the hands of Nassau County, which steered welfare recipients here, and the Town of Hempstead, which they say ignored zoning violations, effectively winking at illegal overcrowding in Roosevelt, which is part of the town. 
It suffered from the flight of middle-class whites and from the overassessment of residential property, a situation that Nassau County is only now correcting, after residents filed suit.
Even aspects of a county economic development plan ended up hurting Roosevelt, Ms. Coleman said; when Nassau Road was widened, many of the displaced businesses simply left. A new building begun on the road more than 10 years ago was never completed and remains empty, its girders rusted and its windows boarded up. 
Now, the town is close to signing a deal to finish the building and place a doctor's office and day care center there, officials said. Ms. Coleman said the deal, coupled with efforts to bring in more businesses, could mark a turning point.
"I feel like I've hit the lottery," she said. "For a long time we've been trying to get people to understand that Roosevelt does have some wonderful potential as a minority community and that the problems that are ours are not our own. And that if we could get all the players together in one spot, we could change that."
Others are more skeptical. 
"It's going to take Jesus and prayer to bring something back to Roosevelt," Jessie Edrington, senior pastor of the Greater Temple of Blessings church, said as she sat in the church's thrift shop, beside racks of blouses and crates filled with belts. "The only thing that we can do is wait and see."
Still, she said she would attend the planning events, which include focus groups and workshops to brainstorm ideas for improving life here, and group visits to a fourth-grade class and the local park. Two nonprofit groups, Sustainable Long Island and Walkable Communities, will help guide the process. 
Mr. Suozzi said today that he was working on one possible solution: trying to have Roosevelt designated an economic development zone, making it eligible for state tax breaks and other assistance.
While some here see the school takeover and the new interest in Roosevelt as a fortunate coincidence, others suggested that the takeover would not have been necessary had Nassau Road been cared for earlier. 
"The school district is in the shape it's in because we are a low wealth, high tax community with no commercial base," said the Rev. Seretta C. McKnight, a foe of the takeover who briefly served as school board president. "You can't separate it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An empty parking lot in front of a vacant building in Roosevelt, on Long Island, is emblematic of the anemic business district in a town whose economic ills are shared by many communities in suburban Nassau County. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); TRENDS (72%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); SUBURBS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); BOWLING CENTERS (60%); BOWLING (55%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: EDDIE MURPHY (58%) GOOTMAN, ELISSA; SUOZZI, THOMAS R (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) ROOSEVELT (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



643 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: As Questions Persist, Tyco Halts Breakup 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Tyco International, one of the world's largest conglomerates, abruptly reversed business strategies yesterday for the second time this year amid persistent questions about its accounting practices and its management credibility.
 Just three months after saying it would split into four pieces and sell a fifth division, Tyco said that the plan was a mistake and that it would break off only one unit. At the same time, the company said that it would lay off 7,100 workers to cut costs and that its profits this year would be much lower than expected. 
 The announcement drove Tyco's stock to its lowest level in four years and left some stock analysts questioning whether Tyco, which is burdened with $23 billion in debt, can survive. Once one of the stock market's 20 biggest companies, Tyco has lost 65 percent of its value this year, costing shareholders $76 billion, almost as much as was lost in the collapse of Enron. 
Tyco's sudden fall from favor is another sign of investors' skepticism about companies that have accounting practices that are confusing and executives who appear less than forthcoming. For most of a decade, Tyco prospered, and was strongly supported by Wall Street analysts, despite nagging questions about its financial reporting.
But after Enron's collapse, many big companies, including AOL Time Warner and General Electric, have fallen under a cloud because of their opaque financial reports, and the cloud over Tyco shows no signs of lifting. 
Though most stock analysts continue to support Tyco, its stock is tumbling. Its board is facing tough questions from investors unhappy about the company's poor performance and the rich pay packages of its top executives.
"What is this company going to say in four months?" asked Richard H. Koppes, a corporate governance expert and the former general counsel of the California Public Employees Retirement System. "The board doesn't seem to have a clue about the people they are supposed to be representing."
Under L. Dennis Kozlowski, its charismatic chairman and chief executive, Tyco has been an aggressive buyer of other companies since the early 1990's. Based in Bermuda with headquarters in Exeter, N.H., Tyco has 240,000 employees and makes everything from security systems to telecommunications equipment. Its best-known brands include ADT, a security company, and AMP, a big electronics manufacturer.
Because it is incorporated in Bermuda, the company avoids paying American taxes on its profits generated overseas, and also shelters some United States income from taxes. It says that being a Bermuda corporation saved it more than $400 million last year alone. This year, Tyco says its overall worldwide tax rate will be about 18 percent, about half the corporate tax rate in the United States.
Mr. Kozlowski has spoken repeatedly of his ambition to build a conglomerate that rivals Berkshire Hathaway or General Electric.
But when Tyco's stock dipped in January after a series of negative news articles, Mr. Kozlowski suddenly announced that Tyco would break into four companies. Mr. Kozlowski, and Tyco's investment bankers, expected investors to embrace the change in strategy, even though it appeared to be mainly a response to its declining stock price, not a change in business fundamentals.
Instead, the breakup announcement fed questions about whether Tyco's earnings were as good as they had appeared. The disclosure that Mr. Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, Tyco's chief financial officer, had sold more than $500 million in stock to the company since 1999 while saying they rarely sold shares further damaged management's credibility.
Now Tyco's stock stands at less than half the level it was on Jan. 22, when the breakup was announced. Tyco fell $5.15 yesterday, closing at $20.75, down 19.9 percent.
"The breakup plan was a mistake, and I take full responsibility for that mistake," Mr. Kozlowski said. "It was the wrong idea at the wrong time." Instead, Mr. Kozlowski said, Tyco will split off only its big financing division, the CIT Group. Tyco bought CIT for nearly $10 billion last year. Tyco, which initially hoped to sell CIT in its entirety to another company, now plans to sell it to investors in an initial public offering, which will cost hundreds of millions of dollars in fees. Tyco hopes to raise about $7 billion in the offering, money it will use to shore up its balance sheet and pay down debt.
Some stock analysts questioned whether Tyco would be able to get that much for CIT.
Tyco badly needs to sell the unit to raise cash to strengthen its balance sheet, said Nicholas Heymann, a stock analyst at Prudential Securities. With the Middle East in turmoil and the economy's recovery slowing, Tyco may run into a cash squeeze if it does not raise more equity soon, he said. "You really got to get much more liquid here," Mr. Heymann said. "If you don't get liquid with CIT prior to having a real credit freeze-up, you might be on a different path. It might end up that the keys get turned over to the creditors."
Mr. Kozlowski called such concerns nonsense. Tyco continues to generate cash, he said, and its balance sheet is strong.
Tyco has suspended its previous plan to sell its plastics unit because it could not find a buyer at a reasonable price, Mr. Kozlowski said. He said buyers were willing to pay no more than $3 billion for the unit, which generates about $400 million in cash flow a year.
Tyco's electronics and telecommunications divisions, meanwhile, are sputtering. As a result, the company said yesterday that its earnings before one-time charges would be less than $2.70 a share for the fiscal year that ends in September, down from $2.81 a share last year. After those charges, to cover such things as office closings and severance costs, Tyco expects earnings to be about $1 a share this year, down from $2.17 last year. Only a few months ago, analysts had projected $3.70 a share.
Tyco also said it planned to lay off 7,100 employees, or 3 percent of its work force, mostly in its electronics and telecommunications units. As it tries to get business back on track, Tyco will essentially stop making acquisitions, Mr. Kozlowski said.
Tyco's problems are a sharp comedown for a company that was one of Wall Street's highest fliers in the late 1990's. From 1997 through 2001, an acquisition binge pushed Tyco's sales to $36 billion from $17 billion. Its reported income soared to $5.1 billion from $1.2 billion. With Tyco's earnings soaring, Wall Street happily supported Mr. Kozlowski's dreams with ever higher valuations and buy recommendations, even though a series of companies suffered spectacular failures a generation ago in trying to acquire their way into being industrial conglomerates.
Short sellers, who bet on a decline in a stock's price, said that Tyco appeared to use aggressive accounting to generate big gains in profits and that most of its sales growth had come from acquisitions. Tyco said its accounting was proper. But the company's long string of profit growth has come to an end.
Tyco's sliding earnings and plunging stock are another black eye for Wall Street analysts, who have come under heavy criticism recently for the poor quality of their research.
Tyco has been one of Wall Street's most recommended stocks in recent years. Even this winter, as questions mounted about the company's accounting practices and the disclosure of the stock sales by Mr. Kozlowski, most analysts retained their buy ratings on Tyco. Among the most bullish was Phua Young of Merrill Lynch, who put out dozens of reports recommending the company. Like several other analysts, Mr. Young did not return calls for comment yesterday.
But off Wall Street, comments were easier to come by. Graef Crystal, an executive pay expert, said Tyco's plunging stock proved that Mr. Kozlowski did not deserve the hundreds of millions of dollars in pay he had received.
"He's just a big pig," Mr. Crystal said. "The only thing that has protected him is the stock price."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "A Stock Plunges As a Cloud Darkens"Shares of Tyco International have plunged more than 60 percent this year as investors have grown skeptical about its accounting practices and lost some confidence in its management, includingL. Dennis Kozlowski, Tyco's chief executive. Completes $10 billion purchase of CIT. Enron files for bankruptcy protection Tyco announces it will split into four companies and sell off its plastics division. Report shows that top officers had returned millions of dollars in stock to company despite comments that they rarely sold stock. Tyco draws on $5.9 billion in bank credit to exit the short-term commercial paper market. Tyco cancels plan to split up, but decides to sell CIT for $6.5 billion to reduce debt and buy back shares. Graph tracks the daily closing price of Tyco shares from January 2001 through April 2002.(Sources: Tyco; Bloomberg Financial Markets stock price )(pg. C1) Chart: "Lower Expectations"Tyco International has sharply reduced its earnings estimates for this year. Graph tracks Tyco earnings per share* from 1998 to 2002 with 2002 estimate 98 cents to $1.08 in fiscal years ending September. *After all one-time charges(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Tyco)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ALARM & DETECTION SYSTEMS MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); LAWYERS (50%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (92%); AOL INC (67%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (64%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD; CIT GROUP INC 

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (67%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (64%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (64%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%) SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; KOZLOWSKI, L DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BERMUDA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



644 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: State Budget Talks Stumble Over Tax Receipt Shortfall 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Negotiations over a state budget stalled yesterday as legislative leaders and the governor wrestled with a new shortfall of at least $700 million caused by dismal tax receipts in April.
 Lawmakers also continued to work with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on a plan to grant him control over the city's schools system. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, again made it clear that any extra infusion of cash to city schools would be tied not only to giving the mayor the final word on educational policies, but also to compelling the city to maintain a high level of financial support for schools. 
 Despite high hopes on Wednesday night that a deal might be within grasp, Mr. Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, left an hourlong meeting with Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday afternoon empty-handed. Both acknowledged that the weak April tax collections had dampened hopes for an accord. 
"We have an outline and understanding of what we would like to do," Mr. Silver said. 
As they entered the meeting in Manhattan, the two legislative leaders had reached a tentative agreement with the Republican governor on about $1.2 billion worth of spending above the $88.6 billion plan the governor proposed in January, aides familiar with the talks said. But they have so far been unable to agree on how to pay for the new spending, which includes the restoration of some of the money that the governor proposed cutting.
The major hindrance has been a greater-than-expected drop-off in income tax receipts during April, when taxpayers must file their returns. The checks have been trickling in at a lower rate than even the ever-pessimistic governor had predicted, leaving a gap of about $700 million, legislative aides close to the talks said.
"There has always been a concern that we live within our means," Mr. Pataki's chief spokesman, Michael McKeon, said.
To make matters harder, the recent federal law aimed at stimulating the economy changed the depreciation rules for business assets like machinery and plants. The changes affect the state's own assessments of these assets and will reduce business taxes by at least $220 million. Neither the governor nor the legislative leaders are willing to pass a law making businesses use the old rules when figuring state taxes.
Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno have offered the governor a range of ways to find extra revenues, including a general amnesty program for people who owe back taxes, allowing deadbeat taxpayers to pay up without interest or penalties. Budget experts say the amnesty could raise $150 million. 
The legislative leaders have also proposed tapping a $2 billion balance in a special account set up to finance health-care programs that the administration has been loath to touch, legislative aides familiar with the negotiations said.
The proposed budget deal now being negotiated includes about $515 million more in state aid to school districts than the $14.2 billion in the governor's January proposal. Because the state's fiscal year ends on March 31 and the school year continues into the summer, only about $360 million would actually be spent in this year's budget. The rest would be pushed into next year.
The leaders also plan to use about $110 million in unspent school construction aid from last year for operating costs this year, easing the pressure on the state's general fund.
The proposed accord provides about $200 million in extra help to New York City's school system by speeding up state reimbursements for debts from prior years. 
The aid for city schools will not come without strings. It is tied to a proposal that would give Mayor Bloomberg control over the city's huge and troubled school system. It would also be linked to a promise from the city to restore most of the $358 million that Mr. Bloomberg cut from the school budget.
Mayor Bloomberg said yesterday that if the city got all the aid it was seeking from Albany, then any cuts to the classrooms would be prevented in the next school year. "I don't think anyone would like to cut education," Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday at a brief news conference. Asked about Mr. Silver's conditions, he said, "Speaker Silver has a right to his opinion."
Yesterday, an official close to discussions on how to give the mayor control of the schools said the Bloomberg administration and Mr. Silver were considering a plan that would expand the Board of Education to 12 members, from 7. The five borough presidents would each appoint one member of the expanded board, and the mayor would appoint seven. The mayor would also appoint the schools chancellor, who would count as one of the mayor's board members and serve as chairman of the reconfigured board, the official said.
Aides to Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Silver have not decided what powers the board would have, but they have agreed that the mayor would probably control the budget and operations, the official said. The board's role would be limited to major policy changes, although the two sides have not decided how to define such changes. 
The legislative leaders and the governor are also considering setting aside a cigarette tax increase, which the mayor has sought, for education. That would help ensure that City Hall supports its schools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DEPRECIATION (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); AMNESTY (63%); HEALTH CARE (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



645 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

PERSON: Michael A. Cardozo 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Baseball on His Mind, but the Law in His Genes

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
THE slight, smiling lawyer in navy suspenders and jumbo aviator glasses seems not to mind being temporarily upstaged by the view -- breathtaking in a bad way -- from the corner office at 100 Church Street that comes with his clout-laden post as corporation counsel for New York City. 
 Want to see what a job-defining view looks like? 
 "Just look out this window," says Michael A. Cardozo, who takes pains not to and doesn't have to when seated at his desk, which faces away from ground zero (though there's no escaping the bangs and booms of demolition).
"I've gone from being one of the deans, I guess, of the sports-world bar to being a lawyer who represents the city on every conceivable legal issue to arise from Sept. 11: downtown economic development, property rights, lawsuits filed on behalf of victims, 1,300 claims filed against the city for damages that occurred post-9/11, extraordinary insurance issues that total over a billion dollars. The breadth of this job is unbelievable. There's a new controversy every day." 
And not all of them were spawned by the trade center attack.
The rabid Yankee fan lurking within the outwardly temperate Mr. Cardozo was reminded of that on April 5, when instead of attending the home opener, he found himself testifying before the City Council on the hot-button controversy of that day, the guardianship of the archives of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani: "I never knew I'd be in the middle of that."
Then there is the mandate from his budget-conscious boss, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, to reduce the staggering sum that City Hall spends on legal fees and settlements, which according to Mr. Cardozo was more than $550 million last year. He says lawsuits filed against the city make up a hardy 20 percent of the caseload of city courts, and this week Mr. Cardozo riled his brethren, the trial lawyers, by going to Albany to try to convince the Legislature that the city is operating on an uneven playing field. "We're not trying to prevent someone who's been injured from receiving compensation; what we're saying is that the law is too favorable to plaintiffs."
Too, Mr. Cardozo wants to undo what he believes is the city's overreliance on, and in some instances subjugation by, the courts in matters of social policy. "The homeless system has been subject to a judge's order since the late 70's, and the prisons have been run by the courts since, I think, 1975. It hamstrings our commissioners. If the city's argument is right, we're not going to roll over and play dead, but if I believe the city is wrong, let's resolve it so we don't end up having the court hound us for the next 20 years. Commissioners should be deciding policy, not the courts." 
Mr. Cardozo, 60, says the mayor gave him simple instructions for a complicated job. "He basically said, 'Michael, I don't know how to run a law department. You supposedly do, so go ahead and run it; just make sure to save money, be efficient and win the case.' "
If Mr. Cardozo is daunted by the legal conundrums he inherited, he is not divulging it. "I'm like a kid in a candy store," he says. "Taking this on was a no-brainer." 
For $162,800 a year, mere peanuts to senior-partner-types like him, Mr. Cardozo took control of the city's $94 million Law Department and its 650 lawyers. Within two weeks of being hired, he not only withdrew from the firm where he had spent 35 years in private practice, but also uprooted himself and his wife, Nancy, from their home in Scarsdale, which they now use as a weekend place, to Midtown.
HE figures his role model, Cyrus R. Vance, with whom he worked on Gov. Hugh Carey's Task Force on Court Reform, would approve the transition. "When I was a kid, I wanted to be shortstop for the Yankees, so I guess I played out my fantasies as a sports lawyer, but I always did public service on the side, so to speak, and now I'm doing it about 20 hours a day."
Mr. Cardozo made his name as a litigator at Proskauer Rose, specializing in sports law for clients like the National Hockey League, Major League Soccer and the National Basketball Association; he and his Scarsdale neighbor, David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, were classmates at Columbia Law School and on the same partner track at Proskauer. "The XFL was my only failure," he jokes, "but I didn't invent it; I just did the legal work."
When he moved into this office two weeks ago (it was shuttered after Sept. 11), he hung photographs of his great-grandfather's first cousin, United States Supreme Court Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo, and John F. Kennedy. His photographer uncle took the Kennedy picture and is one of the very few Cardozos not to go into law; Mr. Cardozo's dad, a real estate broker, was another rebel.
Mr. Cardozo grew up in Manhattan until junior high, when the family moved to Westport, Conn. His parents, both Democrats, were active in local politics, and "there was no question" that he would be a lawyer. The genes run in the family, not all of them unimpeachable. Benjamin N. Cardozo's father, Albert, a New York judge, was thrown off the bench in 1871, a casualty of the Tweed scandal.
"They formed the bar association in order to get rid of corrupt judges, and he was one of the first to go, so it was kind of ironic that over 100 years later I became president of the bar," says Mr. Cardozo, who served from 1996-98. "Albert was the black sheep lawyer of the family, and whether anything rubbed off on me, I'll leave for someone else to decide."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael A. Cardozo (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CITIES (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); BASEBALL (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); JUDGES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TESTIMONY (69%); POLITICS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) FINN, ROBIN; CARDOZO, MICHAEL A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



646 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: State Bond Rating Is Lowered 

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 A Wall Street bond-rating agency lowered the rating on $3.4 billion in New Jersey bonds yesterday, citing the methods government officials used to balance the budget. 
Fitch's Ratings cited borrowing against the federal tobacco settlement and other measures as reasons for concern. It dropped New Jersey's grade from AA+ to AA on general bonds and lowered the rate for other types of debt. Bond ratings help lenders set interest rates when the state borrows money. A less favorable rating can make borrowing more costly, which could hinder the forthcoming $135 million bond sale by the Sports and Exposition Authority planned for next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (86%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%) NEW JERSEY; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: FITCH RATINGS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



647 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Aetna Health Care Unit Posts A Profit, Ending Its Drought 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Aetna reported a turnaround in its troubled health insurance business yesterday, reflecting sharply higher premiums and the loss of millions of members that it said had been money losers. 
 Aetna shares rose $5.93, or 13.5 percent, to $49.91, leading a surge in health insurer stocks. 
 It was the first profitable quarter for Aetna's health care business since December 2000. 
Now the nation's second-largest health insurer with 15 million members, behind the UnitedHealth Group, Aetna said operating profits in the first quarter were $64.9 million, or 44 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $84.6 million, or 59 cents a share, in the preceding three months. Most of the profit came from health care. Aetna lost $36.6 million, or 26 cents a share, in the 2001 first quarter.
With membership lower, revenue was $5.26 billion, down 18 percent from $6.43 billion in the 2001 quarter.
The company reported a net loss for the quarter of $2.83 billion, or $19 a share, after it wrote down $2.97 billion in good will remaining from past mergers to comply with a change in accounting rules. 
Despite weakness in the economy, Aetna, which is based in Hartford, and other health insurers have been able to raise rates in the high double digits. The California Public Employees Retirement Fund said last week that it faced 25 percent increases in health maintenance organization premiums for next year.
Aetna said its premiums would rise 18 percent this year, ahead of medical costs, which are expected to grow 15 to 16 percent. The company expects to earn about $200 million, or $1.25 to $1.35 a share in 2002.
Dr. John W. Rowe, chief executive of Aetna, said that as premiums rose many employers were passing some costs to employees. Workers, who are paying more in premiums, deductible amounts and copayments, may hesitate before going to a hospital emergency room for, say, a sprained ankle, he said.
"We are giving people some skin in the game," a personal financial interest in being cautious about seeking care, he said.
Wall Street analysts praised the Aetna results, which far outstripped their profit predictions: 3 cents a share, on average, according to a survey by Thomson Financial/First Call.
Todd Richter, a health care analyst at Banc of America Securities, said Aetna had "a terrific quarter."
But he said there was "still a fair amount of risk in the story."
"They won't know until next summer what their underlying costs are," he said, when the company finds out if its remaining members are healthier or sicker after the departure of four million members in 15 months.
Roberta Goodman, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, noted that Aetna's medical cost increases of 15 to 16 percent were still substantially above other companies' increases, suggesting that Aetna might have to raise prices faster than competitors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; COMPANY REPORTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AETNA INC 

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); UNH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%) SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS; SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; ROWE, JOHN W (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



648 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Cooperation on Energy 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Former Vice President Al Gore should know that our air quality has improved dramatically in the last 30 years ("The Selling of an Energy Policy," Op-Ed, April 21), and that this has occurred even as our population, economy, jobs and energy consumption have grown. In fact, history shows that without economic growth, there are no appreciable environmental improvements. 
 Our best manufacturers and engineers work constantly on the next generation of cleaner, more efficient energy technologies and look forward to the day their products are economically viable. But for now, our economic health is tied to fossil fuels. 
Mr. Gore complains about a conspiratorial executive branch. He should instead work with business to improve energy conservation and supply.

JERRY JASINOWSKI
President, National
Association of Manufacturers
Washington, April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ENGINEERING (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) AIR POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (59%) NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%) JASINOWSKI, JERRY J; GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



649 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Rivals Try to Redefine Their Party 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., April 22 

 BODY:
It can seem a money-devouring, slow-motion daydream as Edward G. Rendell, the garrulous, risk-friendly former mayor of Philadelphia, and Robert P. Casey Jr., the cautious, earnest state auditor general, slog along in the Pennsylvania Democratic primary for governor. 
 The candidates maintain their well-mannered encounters in occasional civic forums where even Mr. Rendell has been caught dozing off. Their television advertisements wage the more visceral and costly battle. 
 The party money raisers have reached $25 million and counting for this nationally watched race. But until this week, the rivals were not even certain of the climactic May 21 primary date because of a court challenge to the state's new reapportionment plan.
"The time is now," Mr. Rendell, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, declared on Sunday in a public television debate as the redistricting court prepared to let May 21 stand.
"People are focused on the race," Mr. Casey agreed, looking toward the four-week homestretch of a race that is rated a tossup in opinion polls.
Attorney General Mike Fisher, the Republican candidate for governor who has no primary challenger, awaits the victor as his party's strategists hope the two Democrats deplete themselves and their coffers.
For all the uncertainty and ennui that has marked the primary, the stakes are stark for those intent on defining how Democrats can best renew their party.
Mr. Rendell, the 58-year-old urban tactician who put a fresh gleam on downtown Philadelphia, is fighting for a larger arena to try out such typically ambitious ideas as a New Year's special legislative session to overhaul education by cutting local property taxes while raising state aid through higher cigarette and gambling revenues.
Mr. Casey, the 42-year-old son of the late Gov. Robert Casey, the populist rebuffed by national Democratic leaders for his fervid anti-abortion stand, is fighting with much of his father's determination for a revival of the party's old blue-collar basics, leading with a proposal for a $1 increase in the state minimum wage.
The campaign's subtext is all about the post-Clinton definition of a victory strategy for Democrats in Pennsylvania and beyond. The state hung in for Vice President Al Gore in 2000, with Chairman Rendell at his side, compounding its importance this year for battle-testing party ideas for 2004.
Studious, patient and polite, Mr. Casey has been promising a new party commitment to "stand in the shoes" of working families in seeking economic, education and health care improvements. Endorsed by the state party leadership, Mr. Casey is running strong in much of the socially conservative, rural and industrial heartland. 
Rumpled, backslapping and kinetic, Mr. Rendell accuses his rival of nothing more than "the standard talk you've heard from politicians for years."
"They didn't take risks," Mr. Rendell says, offering a gravelly voiced prescription: "You've got to be willing to use the power the voters give you."
In their separate ways, both men can claim headway. Mr. Rendell, the initial underdog with three decades of campaign experience, has been roaming the state for months in a John McCain-like bus caravan. He has managed to catch up in opinion polls that currently suggest a Democratic victory in November. 
Mr. Casey, a Scranton native in only his fifth year of elective experience, is trying to hold down the pro-Rendell vote in Philadelphia. He has gained significant endorsements there from labor and black church leaders with bitter memories of Mayor Rendell's pro-business, budget-cutting initiatives.
Mr. Casey is gentlemanly on the stump. But he has no-holds-barred lieutenants filming every minute of Mr. Rendell's roamings. They fed the news media taped excerpts of Mr. Rendell briefly nodding off at one polite forum. His glazed look was welcomed more as a comic respite than a gotcha scandal. 
Mr. Rendell accuses Mr. Casey of "the worst type of campaigning" in running negative advertisements about the Rendell mayoralty in most markets but Philadelphia. Sensing a close vote, Mr. Rendell has invited moderate Republicans in the Philadelphia suburbs to switch enrollment to make sure they have him as a more attractive option in the November election. 
"What we have here is Rendell, a lifelong pol who first came on as 'America's mayor,' versus Bob Casey, the squeaky-clean newcomer from a beloved party family," said Mayor John D. W. Reiley of Pottsville, boiling down the choice for the estimated one million Democrats who might vote.
Mayor Reiley has endorsed Mr. Casey. Yet he says he can never forget how Mr. Rendell quietly visited his son, Terry Reiley, a Rendell worker, when the son was dying from leukemia. "That's the nature of politics," the mayor said.
In attacking Mr. Rendell's stewardship of Philadelphia, Mr. Casey emphasizes that the state recently took over the city's troubled public schools. "I think he misled the people," Mr. Casey declared of Mr. Rendell's claims to have improved the schools even as he tried to sue the state for a better financing formula.
Mr. Rendell implicitly underlines Mr. Casey's inexperience by speaking of the "tough and unpopular" fights that the Rendell administration waged to turn Philadelphia away from bankruptcy.
Mr. Casey, dogged as his father, keeps up the ideological pressure, identifying Mr. Rendell as a principal in the Clinton era's compromising over issues like welfare reform and globalization.
"You might as well not have a Democratic Party," is his ultimate criticism of Mr. Rendell.
But Mr. Rendell, a battle-hardened loser and winner in primaries past, leaves no doubt what party earned him his scars.
"It's fair to look at what I've done," he declares as the homestretch looms. "But let's look at the plans for the future." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert P. Casey Jr., left, and Edward G. Rendell at a debate. Each seeks the Democratic nomination in Pennsylvania's race for governor. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REDISTRICTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); GAMING (65%); FAMILY (60%); ABORTION (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (91%); BOB CASEY (89%); AL GORE (57%) CLINES, FRANCIS X; RENDELL, EDWARD G; CASEY, ROBERT P JR (AUDITOR GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



650 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: The Court Reverses Direction 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court acted wisely this week to preserve the ability of states and localities to institute land use and zoning regulations to control growth and protect the environment. In doing so, the court dealt a major setback to the conservative-led property rights movement, ending its string of recent Supreme Court victories elevating the rights of individual property owners over valid planning and community needs.
 At issue in the new case was a temporary moratorium on development along the shores of Lake Tahoe, which straddles the California-Nevada border, imposed by the regional planning agency charged with protecting the lake's environmental health. Owners of undeveloped lots along the scenic lake contended that the prolonged restriction depriving them of "all economically viable" use of their land while the agency addressed environmental problems that threatened the celebrated clarity of Lake Tahoe's waters amounted to an official "taking," entitling them to "just compensation" under the Constitution. 
 Fortunately, six of the nine justices disagreed. The majority opinion, written by John Paul Stevens and joined by Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony Kennedy, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, is not unsympathetic to the plight of landowners left in limbo by the moratorium. But the decision recognizes the larger practical harm to the public interest of treating temporary government freezes on development as seizures of private property requiring compensation, as if they were the same as a permanent physical taking.
"Land-use regulations are ubiquitous and most of them impact property values in some tangential way -- often in completely unanticipated ways," Justice Stevens wrote. "A rule that required compensation for every delay in the use of property would render routine government processes prohibitively expensive or encourage hasty decision making."
At last a majority of justices has confronted the practical implications of the court's recent property rights jurisprudence and restored limitations that respect the public, not just private property. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); LAKES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); LITIGATION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%) EDITORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ZONING 

PERSON: DAVID SOUTER (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) LAKE TAHOE (NEV); NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



651 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Fox's Wooing of America Brings Him Woes at Home 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 25 

 BODY:
In his 18 months in office, President Vicente Fox has tilted Mexico in a new direction: an open embrace of the United States. 
 The Mexican revolution is 92 years old, and Mr. Fox has retired its war horses. The facade of anti-Americanism, maintained for seven decades by the old ruling party, has vanished. The flag of Latin American solidarity against Yankee imperialism is furled. 
 In their place stand the pursuit of free trade, foreign investment and now, for the first time, human rights. Mexico's unusual criticism of its old friend Fidel Castro in recent days is the latest sign of that cultural revolution.
"The world has changed," Mr. Fox said Wednesday. "We have changed -- I'd say in a radical way -- Mexico's foreign policy," and done so despite "a lot of resistance."
Now that resistance is rising right and left, as skeptics ask what Mr. Fox has to show for his stances beyond pleasant promises from his friend President Bush. His fiercest critics say he is making Mexico a 21st-century banana republic, at the service of the United States. 
"It doesn't seem that he is promoting Mexico's interests," said Jorge Chavez Presa, one of the old ruling party's leaders in Congress. "We want to play a role in the world, but not if that means accepting orders from the United States." 
Past presidents of Mexico pretended to keep a distance from their northern neighbor. But they have become much closer since the 1980's. President Carlos Salinas spent most of his six-year term fighting to win the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement with the United States. When Mexico's economy collapsed in 1995, President Ernesto Zedillo turned to Washington for a huge bailout.
"Salinas got Nafta, Zedillo got $40 billion," but Mr. Fox has gotten almost nothing from the Bush administration, said Arturo Valenzuela, President Clinton's National Security Council officer for Latin America.
Although Mr. Fox is well regarded by his fellow Latin American leaders, and polls suggest a majority of his countrymen support him, the younger and better-educated Mexicans who helped elect him fear that he has won little return for his political investment in American policies and trade practices.
"Fox is selling Mexico to the United States," said Ursula Diaz, a sociology student at Metropolitan Autonomous University in Mexico City. "Previous governments hid their relationship with the United States. Fox apparently no longer wants to conceal it." 
Her classmate, Fabian Ovalle, 22, said: "When Fox speaks to Mexicans he speaks in terms of sovereignty and development. But when he goes to the United States, he talks about harmony and ceding to American interests."
As a result of Nafta, Mexico's economy is now fueled by $250 billion a year in commerce with the United States. But for all his salesmanship, Mr. Fox has yet to strike the political deals he needs to convince his public at home about the new relationship. His ministers have told the White House that if it does not help him win legal status for Mexican migrants, for example, Mr. Fox will be in political trouble at home. 
Mr. Fox's foreign minister, Jorge G. Castaneda, contended in an interview that "the polls -- our polls, public polls, opposition polls -- show that public opinion in Mexico overwhelmingly supports President Fox's foreign policy."
"But that does not translate into legislative support" in Congress, he conceded.
That is an understatement. The domestic fight over his foreign policy is becoming "a very strong struggle for power in Mexico," said Mr. Valenzuela. 
The old rulers of Mexico, the past and present leaders of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the PRI, want their country back from Mr. Fox, who deposed them in 2000 after 71 straight years in control. In Congress, where the PRI still holds a plurality, Mr. Fox's foes are quashing almost all of his proposed economic and political reforms, and bashing him for favoring the United States.
The fight erupted again this week after Fidel Castro released a secretly recorded telephone conversation in which Mr. Fox asked the Cuban leader not to "complicate" things for him in front of President Bush at a summit meeting last month in Monterrey, Mexico.
The old Mexico, pretending to be aloof from the United States, publicly admired Mr. Castro's revolution. The new Mexico, openly attracted by American power, condemns the lack of democracy in Cuba.
But the domestic consequences of his foreign policies may leave Mr. Fox with fewer political allies at home, crippling his ability to change the way Mexico works.
So Mr. Fox, with no real political coalition inside or outside his Congress, keeps looking to Washington to help him gain and use power. But President Bush, who once said that "those who ignore Latin America do not fully understand America itself," has offered little to his friend in need. 
"The opposition hits Fox where it is most effective, in his relations with the United States, a vulnerable flank," said Jorge Chabat, a political analyst in Mexico City. "If their bets pay off, they could win back the presidency." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%) WEINER, TIM; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



652 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: City in Talks to End Lawsuit Over Community Gardens 

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER and JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration is negotiating with New York State Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer to put to bed one of the most rancorous legal battles left behind by the previous administration, one that pit gardens against low-income housing, Bette Midler against Rudolph W. Giuliani, and the city against various plantiffs.
 The Giuliani administration had adopted a policy that city lots, which over the years had become speckled with tomato plants and sunflowers, should cease being community gardens and be used instead for housing or economic development or put up for sale. 
 Environmentalists and community groups fought the city, asserting that the tiny plots were the closest thing that poor neighborhoods had to a park. Lawsuits ensued, including one brought by Mr. Spitzer arguing that auctioning off the lots violated state environmental laws. 
Bette Midler bought some of the plots. In July, a judge in Brooklyn denied the Giuliani administration's request to lift a court order protecting more than 400 gardens. 
But now the Bloomberg administration and Mr. Spitzer have begun negotiations that both sides hope will result in some gardens reverting to the city for development of low-income housing, and some going to communities, officials from both sides say. Mr. Bloomberg has said recently that he believes that community gardens are viable in some situations, but that housing is preferable in others.
"We are in discussion with the attorney general's office, to see if the suit can be resolved," said Jeffrey D. Friedlander, a lawyer for the city. "I don't know the numbers precisely, but some gardens would be developed and some would not."
He added: "We hope to resolve the lawsuit soon, in discussions, and the sooner the better."
City officials would not comment on whether those gardens not slated for development would be sold to a land trust, like the New York Restoration Project, which bought 111 gardens for $1 million in May 1999. 
But Joseph Pupello, the president of the Restoration Project said: "I will probably be able to talk about it next week. If there's a way that we can preserve a high number of gardens in one fell swoop, it would be absolutely amazing."
The city gained legal ground with an April 8 ruling by Judge Leon Ruchelsman of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn that rejected a suit brought by the Green Guerillas, a community garden advocacy group, to block the development of the city's 600 community gardens without an environmental review process, because they are "dedicated parkland." 
That argument was a keystone to the lawsuit brought by Mr. Spitzer's office, which prompted Justice Richard D. Huttner to issue a preliminary injunction in 2000, barring the auction of city gardens.
"I don't know when he will rule on the attorney general's suit," Mr. Friedlander said. "One of the issues that is common to both is the question whether these gardens are dedicated parkland. If they are, then parkland is unalienable and cannot be sold. But that claim was rejected by the judge."
The Bloomberg administration, which has been trying to settle various pieces of litigation from the previous administration -- and to prevent certain types of other suits from beginning -- was receptive to the idea that they could develop housing on the sites of some gardens, as long as they followed state laws dictating that environmentalists study the land first, the officials said. The Giuliani administration resisted this idea and wanted to begin development unfettered; as such, the two sides were never able to meet.
The city's law department and officials from Mr. Spitzer's office resumed discussions three weeks ago. The discussions, officials on both sides said, are going well but are far from over, and will resume next week. "We are hopeful of working with the administration to resolve the matter," said Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday about the city's destruction of the Cabo Rojo community garden in the Bronx and the arrest of a protester there misstated the date of the scene shown. It was the previous day, April 25, not March 25.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A city worker dismantled a shed in the Cabo Rojo community garden at 159th Street and Courtlandt Avenue in the Bronx on March 25. A protester was arrested that day after he chained himself to a building in the garden to prevent the city from destroying it in order to develop the land. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); GARDENING (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); INJUNCTIONS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%) GARDENS AND GARDENING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) RAVER, ANNE; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



653 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron with Jennifer Steinhauer 

 BODY:
Ubiquitous Bubba
 What did Bubba think of the high-wattage celebrities at the PEN American Center's dinner at the Pierre Hotel on Wednesday? RON HOWARD was there. So was SALMAN RUSHDIE, saying that his next book would be a collection of essays titled "Step Across This Line." Honorary chairmen included LAUREN BACALL, BILL T. JONES and JESSYE NORMAN. 
 Bubba seemed to be snarling at his mate when the question crossed the questioner's mind, so the question went unasked. And the novelist AMY TAN's Yorkshire terriers, Bubba and Lilli (short for Lilliput, said Ms. Tan, left), went back to whatever they were doing in the over-the-shoulder bag that was their home away from home for the gala. 
She had taken Bubba (but not Lilli) to the premiere of the WOODY ALLEN film "Hollywood Ending" on Tuesday, where she talked about the time she carried him through the Oval Office. A friend who worked in the Clinton White House showed her around; the president was away that day. Socks, the Clintons' cat, was oblivious, she said.
PEN gave a $25,000 award to VANESSA LEGGETT, a freelance writer who was jailed for refusing to surrender her tape-recorded interviews to a grand jury. "When I was in jail," she said, "I really didn't think my life could get any more surreal."

A Wing and a Chair
This is why RON FRIED'S newly won Emmy has a broken wing, and why he had a hole in his hand.
Mr. Fried, a vice president of the Metro TV cable channel, collected the Emmy as executive producer of the weekly series "Subway Q and A."
When he got up in the middle of the night after the award presentations, he bumped into the chair on which he had hung his tuxedo. "You know how Emmys have wings?" he said. "You know the flesh between my ring finger and my pinkie finger? It went in one side and out the other." And broke off from the Emmy.

A Tennessee Story
Here are two facts about FAYE DUNAWAY: (1) She and Tennessee Williams were friends. (2) When she decided to direct a short film, she chose his short story "The Yellow Bird." (The film will be shown on Sunday on WE, the women's entertainment cable channel.)
"He gave me his recording of this short story, which was the most delightful, larky, kick-up-your heels story," she said. She shot the film in four days after persuading JAMES COBURN to star. "I sent him a lot of orchids, that's what I did," she said.

Checking Out la Source
JEAN-MARIE LE PEN, the far-right candidate for the French presidency, attributes one of his homilies to MAYOR MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG.
Mr. Le Pen said last week that he was "socially on the left, economically on the right and nationally French." Agence France-Presse said the remark drew fire from many who believed it paraphrased Hitler. The news agency quoted Mr. Le Pen as saying: "It wasn't from Hitler that I got my references, it's from Bloomberg, the Jewish mayor of New York." Mr. Le Pen said he noticed the line in an Air France in-flight magazine.
In fact, the most recent issue of the Air France magazine does feature a profile of Mr. Bloomberg, which says he once stated "with total assurance that he was 'socially a Democrat, fiscally a Republican,' " but the quote ends there. Mr. Bloomberg often says that he is socially liberal and fiscally conservative. He tends not to use party terms in that description.
"We're flattered his ideology has won international acclaim," said the mayor's spokesman, EDWARD SKYLER. Referring to Hitler, he added, "I can promise you the mayor's remarks were not inspired by that despicable murderer." And Mr. Bloomberg's view of Mr. Le Pen? Mr. Skyler did not say.
Sometimes children can uncover as many facts as grown-up reporters do. Yesterday Mr. Bloomberg and his daughter, EMMA BLOOMBERG, 22, who also works at City Hall, were interviewed by a large group of children who were taking part in Take Your Child to Work Day. It was thus learned that he has no favorite color; that, like much of his audience, he enjoys peanut butter and hot dogs (no relish, thank you very much); that he still supports the idea of school uniforms; and that his favorite baseball team is whichever team is playing on the day he is asked. With Jennifer Steinhauer

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (86%); DOGS (73%); MOVIE FILMING (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PEN LITERARY AWARDS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; EMMY AWARDS; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; ELECTIONS; TAKE OUR DAUGHTERS TO WORK DAY; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: PIERRE HOTEL (NYC); WE: WOMEN'S ENTERTAINMENT (CABLE CHANNEL) 

PERSON: RON HOWARD (90%); RONALD A WILLIAMS (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (50%) BARRON, JAMES; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; FRIED, RON; WILLIAMS, TENNESSEE (1911-83); DUNAWAY, FAYE; YELLOW BIRD, THE (MOVIE); LE PEN, JEAN-MARIE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (84%) NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



654 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Saudi Tells Bush to Temper U.S. Support for Israel
Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia told President Bush that the United States must temper its support for Israel or face grave consequences in the Arab world, Saudi officials said. The leaders met in Texas. A1

In Washington, House Republican leaders set a vote for next week on a resolution of "solidarity" with Israel, rejecting a plea by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to hold off. A10

Would-Be Egyptian 'Martyrs'
Egyptian officials confirmed that half a dozen young men and women had been stopped trying to sneak across the border into Israel since last week, apparently to mount attacks as martyrs for the Palestinian cause. A1

Palestinians besieged with Yasir Arafat said they had convicted four assassins of an Israeli government minister and given them jail terms. A11

Argentina Deepens Bank Freeze
Argentina stepped away from an immediate economic collapse when lawmakers approved temporary legislation intended to make it harder for 1.5 million bank depositors to withdraw their money. A8

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A12-13

Federal Relief Payments Don't Match Scale of 9/11
The Federal Emergency Management Agency has paid out less than $65 million to help families in the Sept. 11 disaster area pay bills, buy food and avoid eviction. That is a fraction of what the nation's frontline relief agency has distributed after other catastrophes. Officials say one reason is that claimants must show losses were a "direct result" of the attacks. A1

Another reason is that private charities have provided so much aid. A13

Warning on Health Dangers
The risk of asbestos-related disease, including cancer, may have risen slightly for tens of thousands of people in Lower Manhattan as a result of the trade center's collapse. A13

NATIONAL A14-26

Bishops Still Wrangling Over Disciplining Priests
The head of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops said that despite high-level Vatican meetings, top American church officials remained deeply divided over whether they should end the career of any priest accused of having abused a child years ago. But for new instances, the policy will be zero tolerance. A1

The Boston Archdiocese issued more documents showing that top church officials knew for years about the Rev. Paul R. Shanley's advocacy of sex between men and boys. A22

Tax Collections Lagging
Tax revenue has been flowing in to the government at levels far lower than anticipated, raising the possibility that this year's budget deficit may be twice as big as projected. A1

Money Low for Active Reserves
The Pentagon will not have enough money to keep the current level of 80,000 National Guard and Reserve troops on active duty through this fiscal year, according to House Democrats and some military officials. A18

House Seeks I.N.S. Breakup
The House voted overwhelmingly to abolish the I.N.S. and divide its functions between two bureaus, one for immigration services and one for enforcement. Senate legislation is expected to be introduced next week. A1

Senate Approves Energy Bill
The Senate passed a stripped-down energy bill that would produce little new fuel for Americans and do little to conserve existing resources. It differs significantly from a House bill. A18

Mine Waste as River 'Fill'
The Bush administration wants to let the coal mining industry fill waterways and valleys with the rock and dirt from mountaintop mining. A14

EDUCATION

No More Early Admissions
The University of North Carolina abolished early decision admissions, becoming the first major selective American college to do so. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Blast Injures Dozens And Damages a City Block
An explosion in a basement where chemicals were stored and used to manufacture signs shook a block in the Chelsea district of Manhattan and injured at least 42 people, 12 critically. The morning blast, which broke windows and wrecked offices, initially evoked fears of a terror attack, but officials said it was an accident. B1

Lawyer Seeks Jailed Client
A lawyer for Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who was convicted of plotting terror attacks in New York City, said the government would not tell him where his client was being held. B4

Crown Heights Plea Talks
Negotiations over a possible guilty plea by Lemrick Nelson Jr. in the 1991 Crown Heights case broke down, said a lawyer for Mr. Nelson, who faces retrial on civil rights charges in the killing of a Hasidic scholar. B4

Competing Claims for Jackpot
New Jersey lottery officials said they had received competing claims for a $58.9 million jackpot, one from an individual who holds a valid winning ticket and another from a group of workers in an office pool. B2

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-40

ESCAPES F1-20

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A27

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Flooding Experiment Backed
A federally appointed panel approved a controversial experiment to flood part of the Colorado River in hope of saving an endangered fish, rebuilding beaches and reducing an abundant trout population. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Reversal on Tyco Breakup
The conglomerate, facing questions about its accounting and management credibility, said a plan to break into four companies and sell a fifth division would have been a mistake; it will now split off just one business, CIT Group. Warning profits would be lower, Tyco also said it would lay off 7,100 workers to cut costs. C1

Going After Securities Fraud
A Senate panel passed a bill to make it easier to prosecute criminal securities-fraud violations and related offenses and expand the time limit for bringing civil securities fraud cases, renewing a fight over efforts to limit lawsuits against corporations. C1

Analysts Facing S.E.C. Scrutiny
The S.E.C. began a formal investigation into Wall Street stock analysts and potential conflicts of interest. C1

Hewlett Chief Testifies
Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, testified about what she meant when she told major institutional investors that a vote in favor of the company's merger with Compaq was "of great importance to our ongoing relationship." C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Israel's historic miscalculation; the court reverses direction; a new swagger at G.M.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E27
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); CHARITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); FAMILY (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ASBESTOS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (63%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); CHILD ABUSE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) ISRAEL (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



655 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Tax Revenues Lag, Threatening to Double Deficit 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
Tax revenues have been flowing in to the federal government at far lower levels than anticipated, raising the possibility that this year's budget deficit could be twice as big as projected, government and private analysts said today.
 A big portion of tax receipts reach Washington in the weeks after the April 15 tax-filing deadline, and the analysts said it would be another week or two before a definitive tally is available. But they said the trend so far suggested that receipts could end up as much as $70 billion lower than expected. 
 A shortfall of that magnitude would equal a little less than 5 percent of anticipated revenues of $1.42 trillion from personal and corporate income taxes. But it would roughly double the projected deficit for the current fiscal year, which stands at $73 billion after accounting for a corporate tax cut enacted last month and President Bush's request for $27 billion in additional spending this year, using Congressional Budget Office figures. 
A $70 billion shortfall in tax revenues, combined with deficit projections, would produce a deficit of more than $140 billion for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
"It's too early to know for sure, but if these trends continue, this is bad news for the budget, no question about it," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
Officials at the White House and the Treasury Department declined to comment, saying it was too early to draw any conclusions about how much revenue the government would collect.
Analysts said the government had processed about two-thirds of this month's tax receipts. 
If the early indications of a substantial shortfall hold up as the Internal Revenue Service finishes opening envelopes and depositing checks from taxpayers, it would suggest that last year's recession eliminated or reversed the positive revenue surprises of the last five years. For reasons that are still partly unexplained, tax receipts in much of the economic boom of the late 1990's ran at higher-than-expected levels, playing a crucial role in the swing from budget deficits to surpluses. Though figures are still sketchy, the shortfall this year appears to be largely from nonwithheld individual tax payments, a category that includes taxes on capital gains, stock options, dividends, real estate sales and other nonwage income.
But analysts said tax refunds had also been larger than expected, suggesting that wages last year might have fallen more than other economic statistics had captured.
Economists at Goldman Sachs, the investment firm, said nonwithheld receipts appeared to be running about 30 percent below projections, implying that the deficit would be $40 billion or so higher than anticipated.
Other analysts said refunds had been running about $20 billion more than anticipated going into April, and that revenue from withholding for some individual and corporate tax payments was about $10 billion lower than expected. It is unclear how much of the likely shortfall stems directly from corporate rather than individual tax payments. As a result, they said, it was possible that the total shortfall could come to about $70 billion.
"We're getting close to the time when these numbers get pretty firm," said Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman Sachs. "It's trending pretty negative at this point, at a time when government spending is still on an upward path."
The government ran surpluses for the last four years. But even before this year's likely revenue shortfalls became apparent, the government was expected to be in the red for at least the next several years.
The turnabout was due to a combination of the $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut signed into law last year by President Bush, the weak economy and increased government spending after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
The re-emergence of deficits has had little economic impact so far. But the political implications, though muted by the bipartisan consensus after Sept. 11 that the government should spend whatever is necessary to fight terrorism, could still be substantial.
Should the deficit grow this year, Democrats said, it would strengthen their case that last year's tax cut was fiscally irresponsible and that there was no room for the additional tax cuts the administration is seeking.
"It's bad news for those who are pushing for new tax cuts," Mr. Spratt said.
Any additional tax cuts, he said, would mean "more borrowing and more spending of the Social Security trust funds" -- a theme that Democrats have already been hitting hard in an effort to beat back Republican efforts to make last year's 10-year tax cut permanent.
But Republicans are sure to use any deterioration in the fiscal outlook to argue against further increases in spending beyond what Mr. Bush has sought for the military and increased domestic security. Without referring to any revenue shortfall, Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, warned members of the appropriations committees from both parties today not to tack any extra spending onto Mr. Bush's request for an additional $27 billion to cover antiterrorism programs through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30.
"If we are to reinvigorate our economy, it is imperative that we take steps to control spending," Mr. Nussle said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TRENDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (79%); INCOME TAX (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TAX AUTHORITIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JOHN SPRATT (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



656 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
Economic Revival Poses a Problem for Bush

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
On Friday morning, the government will release figures expected to show that the economy came roaring back in the first three months of this year, bringing a curtain down on the recession and giving cause for optimism to workers, businesses and investors.
 But for President Bush, who distanced himself from the weak economy even before taking office and has since avoided blame for the rise in unemployment, the good news presents a quandary. 
 Should he take credit for the rebound and embrace the economy as his own? Or should he remain mindful of the economic and political risks, including the possibility that joblessness could remain elevated all this Congressional election year, and emphasize the negatives?
It is an issue that has been much debated in the administration, where the politics of the economy are viewed through the prism of the experience of the president's father. 
A decade ago, Democrats portrayed the senior President Bush as blind to the economic strains on people even after the official end of the last recession. Failing to counteract that attack may have cost him re-election, a lesson that has permeated this White House's strategy.
Administration officials said today that Mr. Bush's comments on Friday would depend to some extent on the strength of the figures for the gross domestic product in the first quarter. 
But they suggested that Mr. Bush would try to have it both ways. They said he would most likely hail the improvement as evidence that his policies, especially last year's tax cut, are working, despite new evidence that the budget deficit may be growing to higher-than-expected levels. At the same time, he will emphasize that the economy's performance is not good enough. He also will probably reiterate his message that the best available insurance against many of the risks still facing the economy would be to pass the many elements of his agenda that have been blocked by the Democratic-controlled Senate, including further tax cuts, reduced barriers to trade and more domestic oil exploration.
Emphasizing that he did not yet have advance knowledge of what the economic growth figure would be, Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic policy adviser, said in an interview today that it was "almost certainly good news" and would underscore the value of last year's tax and interest-rate cuts.
But he said the data, which Wall Street economists expect to show that the economy grew at around a 5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, would largely reflect a one-time boost to the economy from businesses restocking their inventories.
It is unclear, Mr. Lindsey said, whether the recovery will remain as robust as the year progresses, especially given the uncertainty about factors like oil prices and the possibility of another terrorist attack.
"So we should not be complacent about the future," he said. "I certainly don't think the president is."
Even before the presidential election was decided, Mr. Bush emphasized that the downturn had begun on President Bill Clinton's watch. He has recently dismissed economic statistics as important only to "bean counters," saying he recognizes that times are tough for many people no matter what the numbers say.
But if his presentation is intended in part to show that he has the empathy his father was accused of lacking, it also seeks to advance his party's election-year attacks on the Senate as obstructionist.
It is the Senate, administration officials said, that killed Mr. Bush's plan to decrease dependency on foreign oil by drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. It is the Senate, they said, that has held up legislation to help businesses get insurance against terrorist attacks, a problem they said was damaging construction by making it hard for developers to get loans.
Democrats dismissed the implication that the remaining risks to the economy are their responsibility. They said they would battle the president and Congressional Republicans over the economy, whether or not the statistics remain strong.
They said they intended to focus on pocketbook issues like health care costs rather than the overall state of the economy. "On the pocketbook issues, Democrats have an opportunity and an advantage," said Michael P. Meehan, the polling and message director for the Democratic National Committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (75%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); OIL EXPLORATION (61%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002 



657 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: As Egypt Curbs Dissent, Critic Fears His Fate at Trial 

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 24 

 BODY:
Egypt's most prominent democracy activist looks tired.
 Saad Eddin Ibrahim moves slowly around his airy apartment here, his shuffling a reminder of small strokes he says he suffered during a recent eight-month prison stay. He is bracing for a new trial scheduled to start on Saturday, before a judge with a reputation for severity. And he is discouraged by what he sees as the government's effort to contain the outrage of his countrymen over Israel's treatment of the Palestinians. 
 "The security services are getting stronger," said Mr. Ibrahim, an Egyptian-American sociologist who is widely known abroad. "Political parties are getting weaker. Civil society organizations are being muffled. Human rights groups are being intimidated again."
Egypt's leaders are not doing so well, either, he said. "The saddest thing is that they are wasting opportunities that this country has to be better, because of a hardening of the political arteries, because the elite is not getting any oxygen," he said. "I may have been having these small strokes, but they have been having big ones."
Mr. Ibrahim, 63, is one of many Egyptians who now see a difficult time ahead, one in which public anger over the conflict in Israel threatens to spark a tinder of domestic grievances about a stagnating economy and autocratic governance.
In the past several years, the government of President Hosni Mubarak has extended its authoritarian hand, taking on not only Islamist militants but also human rights activists, intellectuals and gays.
Since his first arrest in June 2000, Mr. Ibrahim has been a symbol of that shift. Along with 27 others connected to the Cairo research center he founded, Mr. Ibrahim was put on trial in February 2001 on charges that included sullying Egypt's reputation, accepting foreign donations without permission and embezzlement. He was convicted and sentenced to seven years in prison.
The case resonated in part because of the many protest flags that Mr. Ibrahim has hoisted -- for open elections, human rights, an end to discrimination against the Coptic Christian minority -- and because his voice has easily carried abroad.
The prosecution was also striking because Mr. Ibrahim had enjoyed access to the inner circles of Egyptian power, at times even acting as an adviser to Mr. Mubarak.
Mr. Ibrahim's prison sentence prompted complaints from governments and human rights groups abroad. In February, the verdict was overturned by an appeals court.
But preparations for the retrial of Mr. Ibrahim and some of his co-defendants have not indicated any softening of approach. The new proceeding was scheduled quickly in the Supreme Security Court, and petitions by Mr. Ibrahim's lawyers that he be allowed to travel to the United States for medical treatment have gone unanswered.
"It is part of their trying to teach me a lesson," Mr. Ibrahim said, "and the learning curve is very low."
But since his release 10 weeks ago, Mr. Ibrahim has not been his old sharp-tongued self, at least in public. His colleagues, who have had to defend themselves without access to the support Mr. Ibrahim can command, appear even more chastened.
"This case has been a blunt message to young researchers that we will not be allowed to do fieldwork in areas like human rights and political awareness," said Khaled Fayyad, 30, who directed a project on political education and voter rights for Mr. Ibrahim's Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies. 
Mr. Fayyad also said he would not work again with Mr. Ibrahim, whom he accused of failing to look out for subordinates. "He was supposed to be the captain of the ship," Mr. Fayyad said. "Instead, he acted like any other sailor, worrying only about his own rescue."
Mr. Ibrahim has disputed the assertion that he did not worry about the others, about half of whom received suspended sentences and will not be retried. But he agreed that the case is about more than just himself. During the early 1990's, he said, while the government was fighting Islamist militants, it was happy to have him on prime-time television to criticize Islamist violence from a liberal perspective.
"As soon as they thought they had gotten the Islamists under control and I began monitoring the 1995 election, they canceled the program," he recalled.
Although the current crisis in Israel "gives civil society a moment when it can reassert itself with legitimate dissent," Mr. Ibrahim said, the government remains wary that such dissent will spread. That risk, he added, is rooted in the government's long reluctance to give Egyptians a clear picture of its foreign policies or military strength.
Egyptians, he said, "don't know that war is not an option." He added: "They don't know that the peace treaty with Israel is still binding. Most of those kids demonstrating weren't even born when that peace treaty was signed. They see the Palestinians resisting the Israelis with no arms, with nothing, and they ask, 'What are all these armies we have for?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saad Eddin Ibrahim has been supported by human rights advocates. (Norbert Schiller for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); JUDGES (72%); EMBEZZLEMENT (62%); PETITIONS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; COPTIC CHURCHES 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (79%) GOLDEN, TIM; IBRAHIM, SAAD EDDIN; MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%) EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



658 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Seeking Ways to Slow Growth of Hospital Outlays Under Medicare 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
House Republicans said today that they were drafting legislation to slow the growth in Medicare payments to hospitals and had discussed the idea of charging elderly people a modest co-payment for the use of home health care services.
 Home care is one of the few services for which no co-payment is now charged. 
 The proposals are being considered as part of a Medicare bill that Republicans say they intend to push through the House before the Memorial Day recess.
The centerpiece of the bill is a proposal to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare. As a corollary, House Republicans plan to alter the formulas for paying hospitals, doctors, nursing homes, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations, all of which are lobbying for more money. 
White House officials have insisted that such changes must not produce a net increase in Medicare spending beyond what is envisioned under existing law. Increases for some health care providers would thus have to be offset by cuts in payments to others.
Many lawmakers say their top priority is to increase Medicare payments to doctors. In recent months, some doctors have refused to take new Medicare patients, saying Medicare paid too little to cover their costs. 
Medicare cut payments to doctors by 5.4 percent this year. With no change in current law, the fees paid for each physician service will be reduced in each of the next three years, for a total decrease of 17 percent from 2002 through 2005.
Lobbyists for Medicare beneficiaries, hospitals and home health agencies protested today after learning of the Republican ideas. Medicare accounts for nearly one-third of hospital revenues, on the average, but at some inner-city and rural hospitals, the proportion is far higher.
The ideas emerged from weeks of discussions by the House Ways and Means Committee and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, which share authority over the Medicare program.
Medicare is a potentially explosive issue. Any proposal for new co-payments would be highly contentious. 
Ken Johnson, a spokesman for Republicans on the Energy and Commerce Committee, said: "We intend to produce a Medicare reform bill next month. A wide range of options have been discussed, but no decisions have been made yet on how to proceed. Admittedly, some of these ideas are very controversial politically. There has been some discussion of co-payments for home health care, but an issue of that importance will be decided only by the members."
In the past, Democratic members of Congress and lobbyists for the elderly have complained that the sickest patients would be hardest hit by co-payments. In 1997, the Senate voted to establish a charge of $5 a visit for home care services under Medicare. President Bill Clinton objected, and the idea was dropped in negotiations with the House.
This year, House Republicans said, they are considering a flat co-payment for each 60-day period in which a person receives home health care. They said the amount would be modest.
The overall Medicare bill is expected to pass the House on a party-line vote. Members of both parties see a political imperative to add drug benefits to Medicare. But some Congressional aides and lobbyists said today that many Republicans would be reluctant to vote, in this election year, to cut the scheduled increases in payments to hospitals and other health care providers.
Proposals developed by the two House committees are subject to review by Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, who could suggest changes to ensure that the package would be politically acceptable.
Under existing law, hospitals are scheduled to receive an increase in Medicare payments to account for the full effect of inflation -- about 3 percent a year -- from 2004 to 2007. The preliminary House Republican plan would reduce the update by one-half of a percentage point each year, saving $5 billion over five years.
Hospitals say they cannot absorb such cutbacks when their costs are rising rapidly. The new costs are for prescription drugs and blood products, nurses' salaries, bioterrorism preparations and insurance.
Charles N. Kahn III, president of the Federation of American Hospitals, said: "Hospitals are still recovering from previous Medicare cuts and face mounting new cost pressures. So we believe that a full inflation update is in order for 2003, and that cuts should not be considered for future years."
A Republican working on the legislation said it would not actually cut payments to hospitals, just slow the rate of growth.
Thomas P. Nickels, senior vice president of the American Hospital Association, who talks frequently with House Republicans drafting the legislation, acknowledged that "there would be an increase in overall Medicare payments from year to year." But Mr. Nickels insisted: "There would be a decrease from what the government promised hospitals. The government would pay us less than inflation."
William A. Dombi, vice president of the National Association for Home Care, said: "We have concerns about the impact of a co-payment on Medicare beneficiaries. We don't want a new tax on people who use our services. Most of the people we serve are poor or nearly poor."
Medicare spending on home health care dropped to $9.1 billion in 2001, from $17.5 billion in 1997. But the Congressional Budget Office predicts that it will climb to $12.5 billion next year and $17 billion in 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); RURAL HEALTH (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HOME HEALTH CARE; NURSING HOMES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



659 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: KYRGYZSTAN; 
A Bustling U.S. Air Base Materializes in the Mud

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: PETER J. GANCI AIR BASE, Kyrgyzstan 

 BODY:
Four months ago, this was a muddy prairie next to a sleepy airport in what used to be a nearly forgotten part of the Soviet Union.
 Today it looks like a scene from "M*A*S*H" and is at the new front lines of the American military presence. Nearly 2,000 soldiers, about half of them American, are camped out here in air-conditioned tents. 
 At the landing strip nearby, FA-18 fighter jets and French Mirages take off on daily sorties over Afghanistan, rattling the windows of nearby farmers as they roar into the sky. Spanish, Dutch and Danish cargo planes fly in and out as well, along with KC-135 tankers to provide the combat jets with in-flight refueling. 
"Everything you see here has literally been done since the middle of January," said Gen. Wayne Lloyd, who returned to active duty with the Air National Guard to take on the job of base commander in mid-March. "This was done in the dead of winter, in the middle of frostbite-freezing cold."
Officially, the air base here, named after the New York City Fire Department's highest-ranking uniformed officer, who died in the World Trade Center attack on Sept. 11, is only temporary and will be closed after the war in Afghanistan has ended. But no one knows just how long the mission will last, or even how its end will be defined.
"We will stay as long as it takes," General Lloyd said. "I can't say when that will be, but I don't think it will be in the next few weeks."
Kyrgyzstan, a impoverished former Soviet republic with five million people, is one of several Central Asian countries that have abruptly become important strategic allies of the United States. It shares a border with Afghanistan and quickly opened itself to the American-led military coalition that declared war on the Taliban regime.
About 2,000 American troops are also stationed in neighboring Uzbekistan, at Hanabad, near the border with Afghanistan. A small contingent of American soldiers is in Tajikistan, one of the poorest and most chaotic countries in Central Asia.
Though almost everyone here lives and works inside tents, the elaborate infrastructure implies a more extended presence.
The base has a central power plant, its own hospital center, two industrial-sized kitchens, a recreation center and an expansive fitness center. Soldiers can watch live American sports on wide-screen television sets. They can send e-mail at what amounts to an Internet cafe. They can work out on weights, treadmills and cycling machines.
The population has grown so quickly that French forces here decided to set up the second of those kitchens, catering to French tastes.
"I could tell from the start that this would be one of the better bases," said Clint Parks, an airman who came here two months ago and had previously worked at the air base in Kuwait. "The living conditions are great here. I was surprised by how much they have."
Inevitably, the buildup here and in neighboring countries has provoked uneasiness. 
Russian leaders have been remarkably supportive of the effort, given how intensely they resisted the expansion of NATO into Poland and the Czech Republic. But diplomats and regional experts say that both Russia and China are uncomfortable about American forces so close to their borders, and they predict that tensions will escalate if the bases stay in place longer than expected.
Air Force officials here estimate they have already pumped more than $13 million in cash into Kyrgyzstan's economy. A single takeoff or landing can cost as much as $7,000 in fees paid to the government. The base has spent millions of dollars on everything from gravel and jet fuel to televisions, computers, cell phones and even guided tours.
That is a lot of money in a country where the average person earns about $270 a year and the national debt is equal to about $300 a person.
American officials have also increased economic aid sharply, not just to Kyrgyzstan but to Uzbekistan and Tajikistan as well. The State Department also recently announced plans to provide about $30 million to help Central Asian countries fight trafficking in weapons, and $20 million to help Uzbekistan strengthen export controls and border inspections.
In theory, the flow of new money ought to make life better for people in these countries. But none of the Central Asian countries are bastions of good government.
Kyrgyzstan remains one of the world's most impoverished countries. It has made a genuine effort toward democracy and Western-style economic reforms, but it can hardly yet be called democratic. In March, the police killed seven people and wounded more than a dozen others who were protesting the imprisonment of a member of Parliament.
Uzbekistan remains notorious for brutal political repression as well as for corruption and hostility to market-opening economic reforms. Tajikistan, which was embroiled in civil war for five years, remains a major corridor for heroin traffickers and so hostile to economic reform that Western aid institutions have almost stopped providing help.
It is perhaps not surprising that people who live near the new air base here fail to see it as a boon to their pocketbooks.
"When the Mirages take off, the noise rattles the windows," said Sonya, a woman in the nearby village of Mramornoe who was unwilling to give her last name. "They take off at all hours of the day and night, and it really bothers me. It also bothers the animals. The hens are not laying eggs."
A Kyrgyzstani public television station recently reported that 60 percent of people surveyed around Bishkek, the capital, which is nearby, would just as soon not have the base. 
Local villagers are quick to explain why. Dirt roads and open fields near the airport have been cut off. Local people who board buses at the airport for the ride into Bishkek now have to show their identity papers because the airport has become a restricted area. Furthermore, although the foreign soldiers seem friendly, they spend little money locally.
"We don't see any benefit to us," said Nina Grigorevna Haritonona, a retired doctor in Mramornoe. "They don't spend any money here. They even have their own food."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about United States troops in Kyrgyzstan, a country that has abruptly become a strategic ally of the United States, misstated its proximity to Afghanistan. Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan do not share a border.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Americans at the Peter J. Ganci Air Base in Kyrgyzstan live in tents, but the living conditions, one said, "are great." Soldiers unloaded beds.; The fitness center at the base. Soldiers can also watch live American sports on wide-screen television sets. (Photographs by Boris Buzin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (51%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); DENMARK (72%) AFGHANISTAN; KYRGYZSTAN; FRANCE; SPAIN; NETHERLANDS; DENMARK

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



660 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Group's Link To Company Is Criticized 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
At a time when many nonprofit hospitals are struggling, a large group owned by those hospitals is spending tens of millions of dollars to shore up its investment in a for-profit electronic commerce company in which some of the group's officials own stock.
 Told of this arrangement, some hospital executives criticized it as a conflict of interest. 
 Last year, the hospital group, Novation, and the hospitals that own it backed the electronic commerce company, Neoforma, with about $70 million in subsidies, stock purchases and loans. Neoforma, a Web site where Novation hospitals and others can buy supplies, has never turned a profit and has reported losses of $500 million since it was founded in 1996.
Novation and its affiliates own 61 percent of Neoforma, and 10 officials who play a role in overseeing Novation also own or have owned stock in the company, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Their investments have ranged from several thousand dollars to more than $150,000. Last year, Novation supplied 88 percent of Neoforma's revenues. 
"That presents a problem to me," said E. Chandler Bramlett, chief executive of the Infirmary Health System, a large network of nonprofit hospitals in Alabama that buys through Novation, after being told of the investments. "If someone has a financial stake in an organization, and they have the ability to determine how much funds will go to this organization, that has the potential to cloud their objectivity." 
Novation is a joint venture of two large networks of hospitals, VHA Inc. and University HealthSystem Consortium, whose members include the teaching hospitals at such universities as Georgetown and Yale. Its mission is to use the collective market power of its hospitals to find the best medical products at the lowest prices.
Novation and other buying groups like it are supposed to serve as unbiased middlemen. But some current and former officials of Novation's nonprofit member hospitals say the group is compromised by conflicts of interest when the group and its officials own stock in a for-profit company with which it does business. 
Neoforma went public in January 2000, shortly before Novation announced a 10-year contract with the company. The stock price quadrupled on the first day of trading and soared further in the weeks after that. The stock has since collapsed and is trading at a tiny fraction of its all-time high.
Mr. Bramlett questioned whether Novation should continue to subsidize Neoforma. "That's our money," he said. "If it's not recouped, and we're putting good money after bad, then I have a major problem with that."
Despite the subsidies, only 486 hospitals of Novation's 2,500 hospitals use the Neoforma Web site to buy supplies, though officials say that number is growing. Some hospitals say they are not convinced it can save them money.
Congress plans to hold hearings on Tuesday to investigate the business practices of groups like Novation that negotiate contracts for medical supplies on behalf of hospitals. 
Curt Nonomaque, a director of Neoforma and chief financial officer of VHA, said Novation turned to Neoforma at the urging of its member hospitals, which had complained that they were wasting time and money ordering supplies by fax and other outdated methods. Mr. Nonomaque cited a study his group commissioned that found electronic commerce could save manufacturers and hospitals millions of dollars.
But some hospital executives say Novation officials have shown scant interest in their opinion of Neoforma.
"There was very little shareholder input," said Dennis A. Hall, chief executive of Baptist Health System, a chain of hospitals in Birmingham, Ala., that buys through Novation. 
Mr. Hall called the Neoforma investment "very risky," and said Novation's hospitals "need to have a lot more information." Even so, he said, his hospital has little choice but to start using Neoforma.
"Put yourself in our shoes," he said. "Our money was invested in this company. What choice do we have? The worst thing that could happen to us would be if Neoforma failed, now that the investment has been made."
Mr. Hall said Baptist Health would start ordering supplies through Neoforma later this year.
The idea of buying medical supplies through a Web site is in theory very attractive. Neoforma was supposed to allow hospitals to order more easily and accurately, track deliveries and better manage their inventories. Novation saw the potential of such a service -- and the competitive threat. The two hospital networks that own and use Novation eventually acquired a majority of the company's stock.
But there was a problem. In the world of medical supplies, the purchasing groups are financed not by the hospitals but by the medical supply companies themselves. Neoforma wanted these companies to finance its operations by paying fees for each product sold through its Web site. But suppliers, who were already paying fees to Novation on products sold outside the Web site, balked at the additional money.
Nor were medical supply companies interested in signing up with any Web site that might post their prices next to competitors' prices, allowing instant comparison by hospitals, said Lawton R. Burns, director of the Wharton School's Center for Health Management and Economics at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Supplier reluctance to sign up -- and outright refusal to pay fees -- left Neoforma without a revenue source crucial to its business plan. So Novation decided to pay Neoforma the fees itself, using the hospitals' money instead. Last year alone, that amounted to about $24.6 million. 
"The question is, how long can Novation support Neoforma?" said Michael Bohon, director of materials management for TMC Healthcare, the corporate parent of the Tucson Medical Center. "Who's paying for it? We are."
Officials at a smaller buying group, Amerinet, said they concluded that the Neoforma model would not work for hospitals.
"We just felt that this additional cost" -- the additional fees charged to suppliers for products sold on the Web site -- "was going to add costs to the supply chain, and that shouldn't be what this is all about," said Robert P. Bowen, Amerinet's president, noting that all were expecting suppliers to pay the fees. 
He also said his buying group's mission was not to invest in companies but to "write contracts that benefit our members."
As for personal investments in companies with which one does business, Mr. Bowen says his group does not allow that.
But Mr. Nonomaque, who sits on Novation's board, faced no such prohibition when it came to investing in Neoforma. At one point in 2001 he owned about $150,000 in Neoforma stock, according to S.E.C. records. Mr. Nonomaque sold that stock in November 2001.
VHA's chief executive, C. Thomas Smith, who also sits on Novation's board, owns 3,500 shares of Neoforma's stock worth about $66,000, records show.
"I believe in the future of e-commerce," Mr. Smith said, explaining why he had invested in Neoforma. "I've made the choice that this is something I would like to put my personal resources in." 
Mr. Nonomaque said that he had originally bought Neoforma's stock because he wanted to send the investment community a bullish message about the company. "One analyst in particular had cited my investment in Neoforma as a real positive sign of support for that company," Mr. Nonomaque said.
But some hospital officials, when told of these investments, say they are troubled that their buying group's officials are investing in a company with which Novation does business. 
"Of course it sends that message to Wall Street, but what message does it send to VHA member hospitals?" asked Mr. Hall of Baptist Health System. "It sends a signal to Wall Street that they have a conflict of interest. These people are going to do whatever they can to make that company succeed." 
He added: "My board, at Baptist Health System, would be very concerned if they found out that I was a stockholder in a company that we were thinking of awarding a contract to."
Despite Novation's efforts to promote the company, most member hospitals have not signed up to use Neoforma, in part because they they believe that the cost of switching to Neoforma would outweigh any savings. One problem they cite is that not enough manufacturers and distributors have posted their products on Neoforma's Web site. 
Faced with a refusal by many companies to do business with Neoforma, Novation last fall stepped up the pressure. If a manufacturer wanted to sell products to Novation hospitals, it would have to sign up with Neoforma.
Novation's tactic persuaded some manufacturers to at least sign up for Neoforma. As of March 31, Neoforma said it had reached agreements with 214 companies.

Medicine's Middlemen
Articles in this series, which began on March 4, are examining purchasing groups that buy medical products for about half the nation's largest nonprofit hospitals. Previous articles described the close financial ties between those groups and medical supply companies. The series is available online: 
nytimes.com/business 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curt Nonomaque, chief financial officer of VHA, in the November 1997 Institutional Investor. (pg. C14) Chart/Graph: "The Company in Question"The share price of Neoforma, an electronic commerce company, plunged a few months after it went public in early 2000. Directors and executives of a hospital cooperative -- which is spending millions supporting Neoforma and trying to get its member hospitals to use its services -- bought thousands of shares in the company. Initial public offering priced at a split-adjusted $130 a share. Graph tracking the share price of Neoforma since 2000. (Sources: Neoforma; Bloomberg Financial Markets stock price )(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (94%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); ETHICS (71%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HOSPITALS; ETHICS; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: VHA INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) NOVATION LLC; NEOFORMA.COM 

INDUSTRY: SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



661 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Credit Squeeze Is Easing, But Boardroom Pall Lingers 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Like a lot of other companies with middling credit ratings, the Eastman Chemical Company found itself in a quandary earlier this year. The weak economy, bankruptcy filings by well-known companies and concern about credit risk after Enron's collapse led investors to shun the commercial paper, or short-term unsecured loans, of companies with less-than-flawless standing.
 After Sept. 11, the rates on such loans began to rise -- the gap between interest rates paid by high-rated and by riskier nonfinancial companies swelled to over 1 full percentage point last fall -- just as companies were seeking to cut costs to cope with the slowing economy. When investors showed little appetite for renewals of expiring commercial paper, cash-short companies had to rely on lines of credit with banks, a last resort that made the companies even less attractive. It was the classic recipe for a self-perpetuating credit squeeze. 
 "The overall market psychology was, 'Shoot first, and ask questions later,' " said Ford E. O'Neil, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments who controls $17 billion in mainly fixed-income securities. 
Yet the process seems to have stopped at midsqueeze.
Some fund managers, traders and others who buy commercial paper have sensed an overreaction. The stream of bad news about big-name companies led them to discriminate among companies based on credit ratings rather than individual performance. Eastman, for example, had been priced out of the commercial paper market even though it did not appear to have accounting or debt problems like Enron, Global Crossing, Qwest, Tyco International and WorldCom.
As a result, investors have been cautiously welcoming companies back into the commercial paper market, to the point where companies with middling credit ratings now pay about 0.4 to 0.5 percentage point more than companies with sterling credit. That is half the gap of last fall and closer to the average of 0.34 percentage point in the credit boom from 1998 to 2000.
The turnaround, Mr. O'Neil said, started with the bottoming-out of the stock market, reports suggesting an economic recovery and what he characterized as "a more conciliatory tone" on interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
"Now, seeing good news as well as bad news has led the market to trade a little more logically," he said.
Companies like Eastman are finding that they can borrow more easily and more cheaply, both in the short- and long-term markets. That could encourage them to resume expanding plants and buying machinery -- once they are convinced the economy is really gaining enough strength to warrant such investment.
Though lenders are beginning to be less dismissive of riskier companies, a return to the free-flowing credit of the late 1990's is unlikely.
"There's a return to a little more discrimination in the credit markets after a period in 1997 to 2000 in which the markets in particular were open to a wide range of credit quality," said Christine M. Cumming, executive vice president and director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Keith Leggett, senior economist of the American Bankers Association, said that many lenders have been quick to learn painful lessons from what he called the lending mania of the late 90's. "You had a lot of credit that was flying in there," he said. "Market participants weren't necessarily doing their due diligence at that point in time."
Even though the mania had already subsided last year, the low short-term interest rates engineered by the Federal Reserve made commercial paper unusually attractive, said James W. Merli, who handles the global marketing and distribution of investment-grade debt at Lehman Brothers. Since short-term rates tend to follow the Federal Reserve's cuts faster than long-term rates, commercial paper often becomes a relatively cheap way for companies to raise money in economic downturns.
Expectation that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates has reversed the situation. Long-term interest rates finally came down late last year, but short-term rates will be the quickest to react if the Federal Reserve tightens the money supply. Companies are trying to lock in relatively low long-term interest rates now, Dr. Cumming said, while the going is good.
In addition, as companies' profits suffer and their credit quality deteriorates, investors tend to discourage companies from relying on short-term debt. "It's about balance-sheet repair," Mr. Merli said. "The markets are enforcing a certain degree of discipline."
Even companies with an impeccable AAA credit rating, like GE Capital, the biggest issuer of commercial paper in the United States and Europe, indulged in the glut of cheap short-term debt last year. Investors' jitters actually helped the company's issuance of commercial paper, said James A. Parke, the company's vice chairman and chief financial officer. "Whenever there's a dislocation in the economy," he said, "we tend to be the recipient of flight to quality."
Still, the company cut its outstanding paper from $117 billion at the end of last year to $101 billion at the end of March. In place of the paper, GE Capital issued a variety of longer-term securities, including selling $11 billion in bonds with terms ranging from 3 to 30 years in the second week of March.
Eastman Chemical entered the bond market, too, not just to lock in low rates but also to avoid the ratings-based discrimination that made issuing commercial paper difficult. In the bond market, said Donald R. Mullen, who shares responsibility for leverage finance operations at Goldman, Sachs, investors are more likely to look at companies individually. Eastman announced an issue of $400 million of 10-year bonds on March 26, after calling off a plan to split in two.
"The longer-term debt markets have been very healthy," Ms. Hall said. "We got a very good reception of our issue, and we ended up being very pleased with the timing of it."
In all, during the first quarter of 2002 companies with high and with so-so credit ratings cut new issues of commercial paper by a little more than a third, compared with a year earlier. Partly as a result, the issuance of medium- and long-term bonds has proceeded at a record pace.
Companies sold $596 billion in investment-grade bonds last year, and $162 billion more in the first quarter of this year, according to Salomon Smith Barney and the Securities Data Company.
Dr. Cumming said the switch from commercial paper into bonds was not unusual at this point in the economic cycle, as short-term rates are rising and long-term rates are still relatively low. "The thing that's really different in the current cycle is how huge the change has been," she said.
In a pinch, some companies can also borrow from banks. "Creditworthy customers are still getting credit," Mr. Leggett said. Banks were asking for more restrictive loan covenants with additional collateral or lower loan-to-value ratios, he said, but "probably that process has reached its peak."
Having surged from late 1999 well into 2001, the actual level of bank credit has not been growing so quickly lately, even showing decreases in some weeks, according to data from the Federal Reserve. But Mr. Leggett says he thinks demand may be to blame as much as supply. Companies just are not convinced that they need to increase their capacity yet.
"We should be beginning to see a little more activity as far as the extending of credit," he said. "What we need to see, though, is really the gloom in corporate boardrooms dissipate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Hall, assistant treasurer of Eastman Chemical, in Kingsport, Tenn. Eastman now finds that it can borrow more easily and cheaply than it could earlier this year. (Wade Payne for The New York Times) Chart/Graph: "A Better Credit Climate"The spread between the interest rates paid on short-term debt issued by companies with so-so credit ratings and the debt issued by companies with high ratings has narrowed recently, suggesting that the riskier companies are having an easier time raising money. Graph tracking the interest rate spread between debt issued by A2/P2-rated companies and AA-rated companies. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C1) Chart/Graph: "Easing Their Burden"Companies have taken advantage of lower interest rates to refinance and reduce their short-term debt Graph tracking nonfinancial companies' outstanding commercial paper. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PAPER (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%) CREDIT; CREDIT 

COMPANY: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); FMR CORP (55%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO 

TICKER: EMN (NYSE) (91%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (91%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%) SIC2819 OTHER INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS; 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



662 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Doubt About Tyco's Ability To Raise $6.5 Billion in Sale
A day after Tyco International said that it planned to spin off CIT, its financing division, investors and even Tyco's bankers questioned whether Tyco would be able to raise as much as it had pledged. Tyco, which has $23 billion in debt, hopes to raise $6.5 billion in the move.
 The sale is crucial for Tyco, whose shares have plunged on concerns about its accounting and the credibility of its management. For CIT, the sale is crucial because it needs to regain access to the commercial paper market, the cheapest source of financing. Page C3. 

Delay of Andersen Trial Is Rejected
In a setback for Arthur Andersen, a federal judge denied the firm's request that its trial on obstruction of justice be postponed because of concerns about finding impartial jurors. The judge, Melinda Harmon, ruled that the trial would begin May 6. C2.

Investors Looking on the Downside
The Dow Jones industrial average had its worst week since the markets reopened after Sept. 11. The Dow dropped 124.34 points, to 9,910.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index fell 15.16 points, to 1,076.32, and the Nasdaq index declined 49.81, to 1,663.89. Investors have shrugged off signs of an improving economy, focusing instead on concerns about a slowdown in consumer spending. A1.

Rogue Program Infects Computers
A rogue program is infecting computers and is clogging networks. The program, W32/KLEZ.H, combines elements of a virus, which infects machines, and a worm, which transports itself from machine to machine. C2.

Honda Reports Profit for Year
Honda Motor, helped by the popularity of its Fit compact car, has reported a $3.6 billion profit for the fiscal year, a level simiar to those enjoyed by American automakers in the 1990's. C2.

Unilever said first-quarter profit rose 84 percent, mostly because it had closed factories and spent less on advertising. C2.

Argentina Tries to Restart Economy
Argentina took steps to restart its economy, allowing banks to operate for the first time this week and naming Roberto Lavagna as economy minister. A7.

Vivendi Plans New Shareholder Vote
Vivendi Universal plans to call a new shareholder meeting because it found evidence of fraud in the electronic voting on Wednesday, a company spokesman said. C14.

Management Moves at Pearson
Marjorie M. Scardino, the chief executive of Pearson, announced management changes that appeared to put John C. Makinson in a position to succeed her. Mr. Makinson, Pearson's finance director, was named chief executive of its Penguin publishing group. Rona Fairhead, above, will succeed Mr. Makinson, a move that gives Pearson two women in its top ranks, a rarity for a British company. C2.

Board Lacks a Hewlett or a Packard
Shareholders of Hewlett-Packard elected eight members to its board yesterday, and for the first time in the company's 63-year history there was neither a Hewlett nor a Packard among them. C4.

United Union Won't Discuss Cuts
A union representing flight attendants at United Airlines said that it would not discuss wage concessions, dealing a setback to Jack Creighton, the chief executive of UAL, who is looking for ways to cut costs. C4.

New Farm Bill Raises Subsidies
Senate and House members have agreed on a $100 billion farm bill that will raise subsidy payments to the biggest farmers, a nearly complete reversal of efforts six years ago to wean farmers of subsidies. A1.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,910.72 down 124.34Nasdaq composite -- 1,663.89 down 49.8110-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.05% down 0.04The euro -- $0.9017 up 0.0036The dollar -- 128.08 yen down 0.38 Graph tracking the Nasdaq Composite since April 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); JUDGES (74%); JURY TRIALS (74%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING (70%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); BOARD CHANGES (62%); ELECTION FRAUD (60%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); PUBLISHING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (90%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (82%); VIVENDI (81%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%); PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (90%); HNDA (LSE) (82%); HMC (NYSE) (82%); 7267 (TSE) (82%); VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (90%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: MARJORIE SCARDINO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



663 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: The Newly Rich Are Fueling A New Era in Philanthropy 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
In 1997, Michel Zaleski left the investment partnership he had helped found and put some of his profits into a family foundation.
 In part, the foundation was a way to cut his taxes, but it also offered a way for him and his wife, Caroline Rob Zaleski, an architectural historian, to engage in philanthropic activities. 
 The foundation's assets now stand at about $5 million, and Mr. Zaleski continues to add to them. He recently gave $1 million to his alma mater, Dartmouth College, and the foundation has made grants to the Council on Foreign Relations, the World Monuments Fund and the Trinity School in Manhattan, among others. Mr. Zaleski has also established a foundation in the Dominican Republic to build schools in and around Cabareti, where he has a home. 
The Zaleski family and thousands of others with relatively new money are fueling a transfer of wealth unlike anything ever seen in this country. Models developed by Prof. Paul G. Schervish and John J. Havens at the Social Welfare Research Institute at Boston College predict that $40 trillion to $136 trillion will migrate between generations over the next 50 years, depending on economic growth rates.
A big chunk of that will end up in charitable endeavors: Professor Schervish estimates that $19.2 trillion to $50.2 trillion will be spent on philanthropy by 2052, again depending on the growth of the economy.
"Wealth has been spread across a much greater percentage of society," Mr. Zaleski said, "so there are a lot more people, like me and my family, who can afford to be generous."
As much as $6.7 trillion will go to charity over the next 16 years, Professor Schervish said, which should come as a relief to a nonprofit sector currently worried about the impact of an uncertain economy on government subsidies, foundation assets and individual giving.
Professor Schervish, however, says he suspects that much of that money will find its way to new philanthropic ventures.
"There is no guarantee that any existing charity will get that money," he said. "New philanthropists are setting higher standards for charities and seeking to be more involved in the application of their money, so it would behoove foundations and other charities to begin finding a model for fund-raising that allows donors to engage in the mission of the organization."
Some established foundations are moving to do that, and investment banks, consulting firms and university business schools are also moving to build expertise in advising clients on philanthropy. The Ford Foundation, for instance, has a new project called GrantCraft that offers advice to new foundations on how to make grants, fix mistakes in existing grants and build institutions.
Several large business schools have increased their course offerings and seminars in nonprofit management and strategic planning.
"The amount of resources that are emerging, despite the current blip in the economy, is sufficiently large that the way the money is ultimately allocated will have a significant effect on what our society will look like," said Thomas B. Murphy, a philanthropist whose $1 million-plus foundation has backed Professor Schervish's philanthropic research.
The activism seen among newer philanthropists is at least in part a reflection of the way their wealth has been created, and of the age at which they have come into it. 
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation was established by the generation that followed Mr. Mellon, and it is the heirs of John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie who have institutionalized their family names in the annals of philanthropy.
But many of today's millionaires and billionaires have made their money suddenly and at a relatively young age.
"People are making money in large, lumpy amounts and early in their lives," Mr. Zaleski, 55, said. "It's more tax-efficient to deal with those sudden increases in wealth by giving it away, although that's not the only reason people give."
Mr. Zaleski and those like him have also not become accustomed to living with wealth. 
"A big part of my giving is about coming into it suddenly," said Dawn Trudeau, a former Microsoft executive whose mother was a teacher and whose father drove a truck. "Having a lot of money was never really part of our lifestyle."
While Ms. Trudeau had long given money to the United Way and the United Negro College Fund, her giving changed when she retired in 1998 at 40. "I now get personally involved," she said, "and I do think that changes the way you give."
The more involved she gets, Ms. Trudeau said, the more she wants to give away. "It becomes contagious," she said. "You start giving and you see how much just a little bit of money can do and you start having bigger ideas."
Ms. Trudeau and her husband, Ron Beman, an electrical engineer who works at the Boeing Company, say they have been thrilled with the results of two $20,000 grants they made to Mr. Beman's old school in Gold Hill, Ore. That philanthropy started when, on a lark, they made a brief stop in his hometown on a drive to California four years ago.
"Timber was the mainstay of the economy there, and you know what's happened to the timber industry," she said. "The school had no technology, no access to the Internet, no computers, and the rest of the drive down, we kept talking about how great it would be if we could help them out."
In 1999, their money wired the school, provided computers and started introducing teachers to computer-assisted teaching techniques. The second grant the next year provided for a technology makeover of the peripheral buildings.
Last year, after the school's technology program became a model for other schools in southern Oregon, the town approved its first school bond issue in 20 years. The proceeds will go to building a much-needed cafeteria, among other things.
"It makes you realize that a little bit of help or a little jump-start can get other people involved and participating and start to change the world," Ms. Trudeau said.
Like thousands of other newly wealthy individuals, she is establishing a family foundation. In 2000, the latest year for which figures are available, the Foundation Center counted 24,434 family foundations, up 19.2 percent from 1999. The figures do not include foundations that may be affiliates of a family business.
Family foundations control $197.7 billion, or almost half of all independent foundation assets, and they gave away $11.3 billion in 2000, accounting for more than half of all foundation grant-making.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Future of Wealth"Projections for the transfer of personal wealth, based on the economy growing by 3 percent each year. 20-year projection: $14 trillion*TO CHARITIESAfter Death: 2While Living: 4TO HEIRS: 8 55-year projection: $73 trillionTO CHARITIESAfter Death: 12While Living: 18TO HEIRS: 43 *Figures in 1998 purchasing power. (Source: Social Welfare Research Institute, Boston College)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); FOUNDATIONS (91%); CHARITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HISTORY (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%) PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (82%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; SCHERVISH, PAUL G; HAVENS, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



664 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans Get Asylum at Beijing Embassies 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Saturday, April 27 

 BODY:
Two North Korean men sneaked over a wall into the United States ambassador's residential compound on Friday and another into the German Embassy late Thursday night, all demanding political asylum and safe passage to South Korea. 
 Their actions came six weeks after 25 North Koreans stormed through the gates of the Spanish Embassy here with similar demands, and suggests that this kind of escape route may become more common. The Chinese government allowed the 25 to leave China for the Philippines -- an effort to avoid offending North Korea -- and they went on to South Korea. 
 By this morning, the two in the American compound had already left for Singapore, and the man in the German compound was preparing to leave for the Philippines -- all bound ultimately for Seoul, South Korea, diplomats familiar with the negotiations said.
An estimated 100,000 to 300,000 North Koreans live illegally in China, having crossed the border to escape years of food shortages, as well as political repression. 
Efforts by North Koreans to escape to South Korea present a quandary for Beijing, since North Korea insists that such people are defectors who must be returned to the North, while the United Nations and most Western countries believe that they probably deserve protection as political refugees since they often face arrest and torture if they return home.
In official pronouncements, China says the illegal North Koreans are economic migrants who should be sent home. But in practice it has often turned a blind eye to the North Koreans living illegally within its borders. 
Also, it is almost impossible for the Chinese authorities to consider repatriation once these gaunt and haggard people have made it into the sanctuary of a foreign diplomatic compound, since few diplomats here would hand them over to face punishment at home.
After the 25 North Koreans sprinted into the Spanish Embassy past a lone Chinese police officer last month, China stepped up security around Beijing's embassies and diplomatic compounds.
In the city's sleepy tree-lined diplomatic district, gates that were once left ajar are now closed, and extra police officers guard all gates. But as one Asian diplomat here noted, it is nearly impossible to prevent a lone individual from scaling a wall at night, making it highly likely that such escapes will be tried again. 
The number of North Koreans who defect to South Korea has risen sharply in the last few years, with more than 500 arriving in Seoul last year. Almost all of them go through China, which is clearly worried about the trend. 
Since the defection of the 25 North Koreans last month, the Chinese police have been been ordered to step up detentions of illegal North Koreans in the border region, according to diplomats and aid workers there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (94%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (92%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (88%); REFUGEES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); TRENDS (67%) ASYLUM (POLITICAL); FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GERMANY (91%); SPAIN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); SPAIN; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



665 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Surging, but Wall St. Is Down in the Dumps 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The United States economy is showing signs of life. So why is the stock market still acting the part of the deadbeat?
 Stock investors, longing to move into positive territory for the year, had hoped that signs of an improving economy would end their days of waiting. But share prices sank yesterday even as the government reported that gross domestic product grew at a torrid 5.8 percent pace during the first quarter of this year. Page C1. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.2 percent on the day, ending the week off 3.4 percent, its worst weekly performance since the stock market reopened after the terrorist attacks in September. All the major stock indexes now show losses for the year.
The economic growth in the first quarter was more than had been expected and well above the 1.7 percent rate of the fourth quarter of 2001. But investors shrugged off the otherwise good news, indicating their concerns about the report's hints of consumer skittishness and their continuing unease over corporate profits and investigations into Wall Street practices.
Investors may have played down the economic resurgence partly because the report is at odds with what corporations have been saying in recent weeks.
"The good economic news came in as we're nearing the end of an earnings season that doesn't quite back it up," said Liz Miller, portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. 
"The numbers for the most part met expectations, but what I think is so much more important were the corporate comments that this is a slow recovery," she said.
A trouble spot, market strategists said, is that the government numbers indicated slower growth in consumer spending. Although such expenditures grew at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the first quarter, that was down from 6.1 percent in the final months of 2001. Because consumers have kept the economy afloat the last two years, any slowdown worries investors. Consumer optimism, as measured by a University of Michigan survey released yesterday, fell to a two-month low, leading to some forecasts of more weakness in consumer spending.
Stock investors, meanwhile, continue to harbor doubts about the financial soundness of American companies and fret about the risk of yet another corporate accounting fiasco. "The Enron overhang is still plaguing the market," said David Sowerby, portfolio manager at Loomis, Sayles & Company. "People are waiting for the next accounting fraud, and that is prompting additional weakness in the market on a temporary basis. There is also a lingering lack of confidence that earnings will improve meaningfully."
David Eidelman, a portfolio manager at Eidelman, Finger & Harris in St. Louis, said he had doubts about a rebound in corporate earnings. "Airline earnings came in way worse than expected," he said. "That shook me up and made me wonder what other industries aren't recovering the way we thought they would."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 124.34 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 9,910.72, and the Nasdaq composite index tumbled almost 50 points, or 2.9 percent, to close at 1,663.89. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the broadest market gauge, fell 15.16 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,076.32. 
The S.& P. and Nasdaq indexes are now at their lowest points since last October. The Dow industrials, by contrast, are up sharply since then.
Shares of technology companies, financial services concerns and media companies slumped yesterday. Intel and Microsoft lost 3.3 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively, and Citigroup lost 2.5 percent. Disney dropped 3.6 percent. 
Some of the biggest losers were companies warning of lower profits. General Mills, maker of Wheaties, cut profit estimates for this year and next; its shares slumped 5.2 percent.
Verisign, which collects name-registration fees from owners of Internet sites, lost 46 percent of its value yesterday when management reduced its forecasts for second-quarter earnings. The stock, which had traded above $26 just 10 days earlier, closed at $9.89, erasing almost $2 billion in value during the session.
Dynegy, an energy trading company that once planned to acquire Enron, shed 22.4 percent of its value yesterday after the company said that it would record a loss in the first quarter and that it had made an error in its accounting on a fuel contract that securities regulators had been examining. Moody's Investors Service, the bond rating agency, said it was reviewing more than $4 billion of Dynegy's debt. Maintaining an investment-grade rating is crucial for Dynegy's energy trading business. The stock has lost 42 percent this year.
The new economic data indicated that much of the growth early this year was a result of a decision by corporations to stop shrinking inventories at such a rapid rate. But improving inventories is not as reliable an indicator of economic resurgence as are final sales. In addition, if companies do not receive more orders from their customers, they will have higher costs from carrying more products and that will squeeze their profits.
Though many of the nation's most prominent stocks are suffering, some portfolio managers emphasized that certain industry groups and many lesser-known stocks have done well this year. Aerospace concerns, real estate investment trusts and homebuilders have risen significantly.
Many stocks chosen because they are trading at relatively low prices given their earnings, rather than because of rapid growth, have risen, as have many shares of small companies. "Investors who camped out in low P.E. stocks are in very good shape," Mr. Sowerby said. "You have suffered if you've been sitting, waiting for those expensive stocks to lead the charge, because they haven't."
Investors fled stocks yesterday for bonds. They drove up the prices of Treasury securities, causing the yields to fall. The benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 98 20/32, and its yield fell to 5.05 percent from 5.09 percent. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 5.59 percent, and the 2-year note fell to 3.21 percent, from 3.26 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); SPOT MARKET (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); ACCOUNTING (60%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); AIRLINES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (51%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



666 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Honda DefiesMarket as Earnings Surge

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON with MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 26 

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company reported a surge in quarterly and annual earnings today as a weaker yen and demand for Honda's compact cars and minivans lifted sales in North America and in its home market.
 Helped by the popularity of the Fit compact car, Honda was the only major automaker to increase sales last year in Japan's shrinking market. Honda also excelled in the United States, where its Accord displaced the Toyota Camry as the top-selling car. Honda sells nearly twice as many cars in the United States as it does in Japan. 
 Indeed, Honda's strong performance over the last year has gone a long way toward erasing the company's image as a small maker of light cars and motorcycles. With a profit of 363 billion yen ($2.8 billion) for the full fiscal year ended March 31, Honda is approaching the profit levels that United States automakers enjoyed in the boom years of the 1990's. 
Today, Honda forecast another year of robust profit growth, an achievement that would put it within striking range of the market leader, Toyota Motor.
"I don't want to say what's in other people's wallets, but I'm confident in our forecasts" for 700 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in operating profits for the current fiscal year, said Koichi Amemiya, an executive vice president.
After taxes, Honda expects profits to jump 27 percent and sales to rise 10 percent in the fiscal year 2002.
The bright outlook underscores the diverging fortunes in Japan's automotive industry, with Toyota, Honda and Nissan Motor rising and others, like Mitsubishi Motors, falling.
For the January-March quarter of this year, Honda said earnings rose 69 percent, to 107 billion yen ($830 million). The surge pushed full-year profit up 56 percent. Revenue grew 14 percent, to a record 7.4 trillion yen ($57 billion). 
The results reflect the effects of a weaker yen, and Honda has been trying to diversify its global production to insulate it from swings in currency rates. It will start making small cars in Thailand for the Japanese market in 2003. And British factories this year will produce 50,000 CR-V sport utility vehicles for export to North America.
Still, the fortunes of Honda and other Japanese automakers depend on the health of the United States economy. Honda will start turning out about 100,000 Odyssey minivans among others this year at a new plant in Alabama. The company's "global compact platform" allows Honda to tailor models more easily to each market.
Analysts endorse this flexibility and the company's low-cost production methods, dismissing talk that Honda cannot continue growing at its current pace by only concentrating on small and midsize cars.
"Honda's been growing incrementally for the past 10 years," said Kurt Sanger, an analyst with ING Barings Securities. "These are people who don't enter into decisions lightly and regret it later. They don't have the capacity to make mistakes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%) COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (53%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); 7201 (TSE) (53%); 7211 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



667 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: THINK TANK; 
With the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, a Social Report Card

BYLINE:  By Alexander Stille 

 BODY:
Marc L. Miringoff, the director of the Fordham University Institute for Innovation in Social Policy and a longtime champion of social reform, had been hoping to fly below the radar of national politics by producing a report called "The Social Health of the States." But when the results of the research came back, the map of the United States that it produced looked almost exactly like the electoral map most Americans stared at on election night in November 2000. 
 Eighteen of the 20 states with the worst records on social health, as measured by standards like infant mortality and high school completion rates, were in the South, West and Southwest and had cast their electoral votes for President Bush. Eighteen of the 20 states with the best scores on social health, most in the Northeast and the Midwest, had voted for Al Gore. 
 Mr. Miringoff does not mention this in the report but acknowledges that the pattern is "pretty distinctive" and should interest politicians and political scientists.
"In some ways, it's counterintuitive," he said. "You might think that the Democrats represent those who are worse off, but the states that were doing most poorly voted for Bush." The pattern could also be explained, he said, by the more positive experiences these states might have had with activist governments, making them more receptive to the Democratic agenda.
For Mr. Miringoff, the report on the states is a step toward his ultimate goal: a Social Index of Leading Indicators that commands as much attention as the Economic Index of Leading Indicators. "It's a way of taking social issues away from a more shrill, adversarial contest and changing the discourse, making it more pragmatic, more objective," he said. 
In the meantime, what he has done with the Fordham survey is to create a report card for the states that combines 16 measures of social health, from child poverty and teenage suicide rates to average weekly wages, homicide rates, health insurance coverage and alcohol-related traffic deaths.
Out of a possible perfect score of 100, Iowa is at the top with 73; New Mexico is dead last at 21.4. Because most states face economic shortfalls and are now required to balance their budgets, more and more social scientists are arguing that the most important policy battles to come will be fought at a state level.
Among Mr. Miringoff's findings: 
* In New Mexico, 29.4 percent of the population has no health insurance; in Rhode Island, the uninsured percentage is only 8.1. 
* The child abuse rate in Montana is more than 10 times that of Pennsylvania.
* Teenage suicide is nine times more common in Alaska than in New Jersey.
* The murder rate in Louisiana is seven times that of Iowa.
* Elderly people are more than three times as likely to commit suicide in Nevada as in Massachusetts or Connecticut.
In his state-by-state analysis, Mr. Miringoff found that three indicators in particular -- child poverty, high school completion and health insurance -- were bellwethers of overall social health.
"A state does not do well without doing well in these three indicators, and a state doesn't do badly without performing poorly in these areas," he said. "This really has implications in terms of policy: if you want to get more bang for your buck, or you don't want to monitor all 16 indicators, concentrate on these things to improve life in your state." 
Brian Mattiello, the undersecretary of the office of policy and management for the State of Connecticut, the first state to require an annual social index, said such a measure "allows us to monitor our public human services the way we monitor our financial markets." 
One advantage to concentrating on the states, Mr. Miringoff said, was the possibility of steering clear of the national political debate on social health. "Looking at the states may be the thing to do at a moment when there are unlikely to be sweeping new national social programs," he said. "It's objective, it's nonpartisan and it gets politics out of the picture."
Perhaps because of its political potential, the idea of a national index of social health has run afoul of partisan politics. Walter F. Mondale, first as a senator from Minnesota and later as vice president, pushed legislation to create an annual index of social health, but the proposal died with the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980. 
As a creation of Mr. Mondale, the idea of a social index may have suffered by being associated with the Great Society programs of the 1960's, but, Mr. Miringoff points out, the first efforts to create a national report on social well-being were actually undertaken by a Republican president, Herbert Hoover.
Before being appointed to the Office of Policy and Management, Mr. Mattiello was a Republican member of the Connecticut Assembly. He co-sponsored the 1994 bill that mandated the creation of an annual report on the social health of the state; the bill had wide bipartisan support and was signed into law by a Republican governor, John G. Rowland.
"What I like is that there's no policy recommendations," Mr. Mattiello said. "It's trying to inform policy makers and not direct them. No one is for having more high school drop-outs or child abuse."
Mr. Miringoff hopes that these measurements can be used to spur government action when certain indices drop to alarmingly low levels. States in which several critical indicators have fallen into the danger zone, he said, can be characterized as being in a "social recession" -- the social equivalent of economic recession. If a national report could be produced that received as much attention on the nightly news as the Dow Jones industrial average, Mr. Miringoff added, discussion of social issues might be very different. 
In 1999 the Fordham institute published its own version of a national index, "The Social Health of the Nation: How America Is Really Doing" (Oxford University Press). It showed that although the gross domestic product had continued to grow over the last 30 years, Americans' social health had actually gone down rather drastically, as problems like child poverty, decreased average wages, the youth suicide rate and lack of health insurance coverage had all worsened.
All of which brings Mr. Miringoff back to a political point. "I'm convinced that one of the reasons why more and more people are dropping out of the political process," he said, "is that the political discussion rarely addresses the problems that actually affect the way people live." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); TEEN SUICIDE (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (74%); POVERTY RATES (70%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); INFANT MORTALITY (70%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); POOR POPULATION (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); SUICIDE (66%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); HOMICIDE (61%); MURDER (61%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (61%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (61%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%); GRADUATION RATES (55%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (91%) FORDHAM UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); AL GORE (58%) STILLE, ALEXANDER; MIRINGOFF, MARK L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



668 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Accord Reached on a Bill Raising Farm Subsidies 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
Senate and House members agreed today on a farm bill costing more than $100 billion over six years that will raise subsidy payments to the country's biggest grain and cotton farmers, a nearly complete reversal of Congress's attempt six years ago to wean farmers of all subsidies.
 At the same time, the measure finances some of the most significant conservation and environmental programs in recent years, with $17 billion dedicated over the next decade to preserve farmland, save wetlands and improve water quality and soil conservation on working farms. 
 It is also one of the major pieces of social welfare legislation before Congress this year, increasing food stamps for working families and children and restoring the right of legal immigrants to receive them.
Months of election-year jockeying produced a bill that seeks to satisfy every region and segment of the country. Lawmakers from farm states in the Midwest and South won the largest subsidies for cotton, rice, wheat, corn and soybeans. Legislators from the Northeast won a new $1.3 billion national program to replace the defunct dairy compact. The conservation programs will help densely populated states hoping to control urban sprawl. And for cities and rural areas, the increase in the food stamps and nutrition program will begin to redress the losses from the 1996 welfare overhaul that has led to overburdened private soup kitchens and food pantries. 
"The winners in this bill are the American farmers," said Representative Larry Combest, the Texas Republican who headed the conference committee of House and Senate members. 
The measure represents an agreement to subsidize farmers' income at a time when grain and cotton prices are at record lows and production is at an all-time high.
Lawmakers did not say how much of the $100 billion-plus would go for subsidies, but it is believed to be the vast majority of the money.
The last major piece of farm legislation, the 1996 Freedom to Farm Law, tried to eliminate subsidies and let the market dictate prices and production levels. But farmers and agribusiness, which represents 13 percent of the country's gross domestic product, convinced Congress to pass annual emergency payments raising subsidies to a record $20 billion last year.
The compromise announced today represents a rejection, as well, of a movement to limit the size of payments to farmers. During the year-long debate, lawmakers complained of multimillion-dollar payments to some of the country's biggest farmers, who were buying out the small family farms the program was originally intended to save.
Spurred by a Web site that revealed how hundreds of farmers and absentee landlords received millions of dollars in subsidy payments since the last farm bill, the Senate version included a limit of $275,000 per farmer. But negotiators over the past month dropped that limit. The final compromise includes a limit of $360,000 but with enough exceptions to make it a symbolic compromise.
"This is not a meaningless payment limit," said Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who is chairman of the Agriculture Committee. "What we have learned is we have to make the system of payments transparent."
From the consumer's point of view, the increase will have little effect on supermarket prices. The farmer receives about 20 cents of every dollar spent for groceries; the rest goes mostly to the grain companies and other middlemen.
"The impact is on the taxpayer," said Keith Collins, chief economist for the Agriculture Department. 
Lawmakers wrote the farm bill months earlier than its Oct. 1 deadline out of fear that the growing budget deficit would threaten the money available to raise the commodity subsidies. 
In a week that the Senate passed an energy bill that would expand the amount of ethanol in the nation's gasoline, many of the nation's farmers had much to celebrate.
The Bush administration congratulated the lawmakers today for reaching a compromise and promised to work with Congress to carry out the bill in time for the 2002 crop.
In his presidential campaign, Mr. Bush emphasized expanding the global market for American agriculture. In an election-year policy statement, he also said he believed that "over the long run the best way to ensure a strong, growing and vibrant agricultural sector is through a more market-driven approach."
This increase in commodity subsidies goes against the standard market approach. 
But the administration had been silent on most issues throughout the debate, except for a strong appeal to reinstate food stamps for legal immigrants. Lawmakers largely ignored the White House's earlier protest that the farm bill was too expensive as well as a long policy statement released by Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman that promoted more trade-friendly policies and more fairness in distributing farm subsidies.
Small farmers and their advocates were disappointed with the compromise measure, saying that the Senate had backed down too easily on payment limits and reducing by $5 billion the financing for conservation programs that reach small farmers frozen out of other programs. 
Some 10 percent of the nation's farmers receive the overwhelming share of subsidy payments in a formula that remains basically unchanged in the compromise.
"Why did they bother doing a Senate bill?" asked Ken Cook, of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research group that created the Web site on farm payments. "But the issues of payment limits and fairness and better conservation programs will not go away."
While the conservation financing is less than the Senate version, lawmakers said it represented an 80 percent increase in current financing and was the largest conservation measure to pass Congress in years.
"The farm bill is the only game in town," said Scott Stoermer of the League of Conservation Voters. "This is the first piece of strong environmental legislation since before the Republican revolution of 1994."
To the disappointment of rice and wheat farmers, the compromise version removed a Senate provision to allow private United States financing of food sales to Cuba. 
In another trade-off, lawmakers struck a provision aimed at loosening the hold of huge meat packing companies on ranchers and farmers but agreed to require within two years a country-of-origin label to mark meats, fish, fruits and vegetables as raised or grown in America.
The food industry complained that the new labeling measure would cost $1 billion.
Anti-hunger advocates applauded the new bill, saying the $6 billion increase as well as changes to streamline the program could help reduce the poverty gap for working families and in some cases help lift them above the poverty line.
The lawmakers also reinstated a program to give vouchers to the elderly to buy fresh fruits and vegetables at farmers markets.
"This is a terrific outcome -- one of the most important pieces of social welfare legislation this year," said Stacy Dean of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
The bill also includes a new $3 billion subsidy for peanut farmers as well as a $1 billion buyout program of the old peanut price support system.
The final version still must be passed by the House and Senate and signed into law by the president. 

A CLOSER LOOK
Main Provisions
The main provisions of the agreement reached yesterday by Senate and House negotiators on a six-year farm bill costing more than $100 billion are these:

SUBSIDY PAYMENTS Raise subsidy payments to large cotton and grain farmers, without the significant payment limits passed by the Senate.

CONSERVATION PAYMENTS Dedicate $17 billion over 10 years to preserve farmland, save wetlands and improve water quality and soil conservation on farms.

FOOD STAMPS Increase food stamp benefits for working American families and restore the rights of legal immigrants to receive them.

DAIRY PROGRAM Create a new national $1.3 billion dairy program to replace the lapsed Northeast dairy compact.

FOOD LABELING Require that starting in two years all meat, fish and produce be labeled with its country of origin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Larry Combest, left, chairman of the House-Senate conference committee that worked out the farm bill, with, from left, Representative Charles W. Stenholm and Senators Tom Harkin, Patrick J. Leahy, Tom Daschle, the majority leader, and Kent Conrad. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WETLANDS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); FAMILY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); WATER QUALITY (72%); NUTRITION (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); REFUGEES (70%) AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; WETLANDS; FOOD STAMPS; FOOD; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (74%); KENT CONRAD (59%); PATRICK LEAHY (59%) BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



669 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-10

Bush Urges Halt to Raids; Sharon's Popularity Rises
President Bush again called on Israel to halt incursions into Palestinian-controlled territory, a day after he met with Saudi Arabia's crown prince, who urged the president to distance himself from Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. In Israel, a poll indicated broad backing for Mr. Sharon's military operation and growing support for the prime minister. A1

Crown Prince Abdullah's eight-point proposal to President Bush includes a call for an American-led peace initiative in the Middle East supported by international peacekeepers. A1

The White House persuaded House Republicans to put off a vote of support for Israel and was working to head off Congressional moves to give Israel a swift infusion of aid. A8

School Shooting in Germany
A recently expelled student entered his former high school in Erfurt and killed 17 people before turning a gun on himself, officials said. Fourteen of the victims were adults, most teachers; three were students. A1

Bombing at Pakistan Mosque
A bomb exploded at a mosque in central Pakistan during a religious festival, wounding 23 and killing 12, all of them women and children. The explosion appeared related to a long-running feud between Sunni and Shiite Muslim sects that has taken more than 2,000 lives in the last decade. A4

World Briefing A10

NATION CHALLENGED A11

Filipino Band Raises U.S. Hostages' Ransom
The band of Muslim extremists holding two Americans hostage in the southern Philippines has refused to hand them over, though a ransom of nearly $300,000 has been paid, and the group is now demanding $200,000 more, according to Philippine and American officials. A11

End of Detention Dispute
Civil rights lawyers and the Justice Department settled a weeklong dispute over the treatment of foreign prisoners in New Jersey that had disrupted immigration proceedings at two county jails for nearly a week. A11

NATIONAL A12-15

Capitol Compromise On Agricultural Subsidies
Senate and House members agreed on a $100 billion farm bill that over six years would raise subsidy payments to the biggest grain and cotton farmers. The measure also finances some of the most significant conservation and environmental programs in recent years. It also increases food stamps for working families and children and restores the right of legal immigrants to receive them. A1

G.O.P. Plans for Medicare
House Republicans are drafting legislation to slow the growth in Medicare payments to hospitals and have discussed the idea of charging elderly people a modest co-payment for the use of home health care services. A13

New Leader for Amtrak
Amtrak selected David L. Gunn, who helped turn around New York City's subway system in the late 1980's, to be its new president and chief executive. Mr. Gunn said his first task would be to prepare a shutdown plan in case the money ran out for the system, which he said was "near death." But he said he believed he could secure the financing to make the railroad run well. A15

Cardinal Affirms Zero Tolerance
Cardinal Anthony J. Bevilacqua of Philadelphia, saying the outcome of the hierarchy's Vatican meetings had been misunderstood, said all American cardinals were firmly agreed on a zero-tolerance policy toward any Roman Catholic priest considered guilty of sexually abusing minors. A14

A group of Roman Catholic businessmen in Chicago, critical of the way the Archdiocese there has handled complaints of clergy sexual abuse, is urging parishioners to spurn the collection plate until the church adopts a zero-tolerance policy. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Prosecutors Open Inquiries Into Chelsea Explosion
The Manhattan district attorney's office said it was investigating the explosion in a Chelsea building where volatile chemicals were stored to see if criminal charges were warranted. State and federal officials also began inquiries. At least 42 people were hurt, 12 critically, on Thursday. B1

Skakel Puts Hope in a Tape
Lawyers for Michael C. Skakel, who is charged with murder in the killing of a 15-year-old neighbor in 1975, played a tape in a hearing in Norwalk, Conn., in which a former live-in tutor for the Skakel family, Kenneth W. Littleton, seemed to acknowledge having confessed to the crime. The judge said he would decide later whether the jury could hear it. B1

Religion Journal B6

EDUCATION

Elite Schools' Test Is Moved Up
The Board of Education moved the date when 20,000 eighth graders take the highly competitive test for the city's selective science high schools to Oct. 26 from early December. B1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Scientist Used Own Genes
The Celera Genomics scientist who led the effort to decode the human genome, Dr. J. Craig Venter, said the genome decoded was largely his own. Members of Celera's scientific advisory board expressed disappointment that Dr. Venter had subverted the anonymous selection process. A1

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS & IDEAS B9-16
Singer Killed in Crash
Lisa Lopes, 30, of the rhythm-and-blues group TLC was killed on Thursday in a car crash in Honduras. A12

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Markets Cool to a Hot Quarter
Stocks sank even as the government reported that the gross domestic product grew at a torrid 5.8 percent pace during the first quarter. The Dow fell 1.2 percent, ending the week off 3.4 percent. Investors are concerned about corporate profits, investigations of Wall Street practices and consumer confidence. A1

Analysts said the first quarter's accelerated pace could not be sustained and they pointed to signs that the economy might already have weakened slightly in April. C1

An Apology From Merrill Lynch
The chairman and chief executive, David H. Komansky, apologized for the behavior of some Merrill stock analysts and pledged to punish anyone who violated firm policies. The New York attorney general is investigating Merrill and other firms for conflicts of interest among analysts. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A18

Oreste Piccioni
A pioneer in particle physics and one of the discoverers of the antineutron, he was 86. A18

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Peacemaking after Crawford; farewell to the I.N.S.; combating AIDS in the third world; Verlyn Klinkenborg on bird-watching.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (88%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RELIGION (72%); FAMILY (71%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (67%); FESTIVALS (66%); AGRICULTURE (66%); LAWYERS (64%); MEDICARE (63%); HOSPITALS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); HEALTH CARE (60%); COTTON FARMING (60%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); CHRISTIE HEFNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



670 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: STALEMATE; 
AFTER NEW RAIDS, BUSH AGAIN URGES ISRAELI PULLBACK

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 26 

 BODY:
President Bush called sharply today for Israel to halt its incursions into Palestinian-controlled territory, after Israeli ground forces killed 2 men and arrested at least 11 in a raid on Qalqilya, a West Bank city they had previously invaded.
 "It's time to end this," Mr. Bush said from his ranch in Crawford, Tex., where he had met a day earlier with Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. The president's renewed demand seemed to reflect Saudi insistence that the United States take some distance from Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel. 
 But Mr. Bush was requesting, again, a halt to an operation that is broadly popular with Israelis and that has restored the domestic standing of Mr. Sharon. 
With a strong majority of Israelis saying they felt safer after the offensive, 65 percent described themselves as pleased with Mr. Sharon's performance, in a poll published today by the newspaper Maariv. In mid-March, two weeks before the mission began, his support had collapsed, sinking to 35 percent in a Maariv poll, which is conducted regularly and samples some 500 Israelis each time, often registering marked volatility. 
With such backing for his policies, Mr. Sharon is still hesitating over admitting a United Nations team to investigate the events at the refugee camp at Jenin. Palestinians charge that hundreds of civilians may have been killed by the Israeli military at the camp, an assertion the army rejects.
After a day of maneuvering at the United Nations in New York, it was announced that the team -- which Secretary General Kofi Annan had insisted would arrive in Israel on Saturday morning -- would not go to Israel before Sunday, in deference to the Sabbath. 
"This should end with a positive result," said Under Secretary Kieran Prendergast, who has negotiated for two days with representatives sent by Mr. Sharon to voice Israel's objections to the mission. But there was still a chance that the Israeli cabinet could refuse to accept the mission, or restrict its operations.
Mr. Bush first called for an Israeli withdrawal on April 4, and he later suggested that he was satisfied with Israel's partial pullback from most of the cities and towns it had seized since late March, in what it called a hunt for terrorists.
Israeli officials say they have been left no choice by a Palestinian administration that refuses to crack down on violence, but Palestinians accuse Israel of seeking to erase the boundaries of autonomous Palestinian zones created under the Oslo peace accord.
Mr. Bush affirmed his support for Israel today, but he said the Israelis "understand my position," adding, "I've been very clear, and there has been some progress, but it's now time to quit it altogether."
On Thursday, Prince Abdullah warned Mr. Bush that the United States would continue to lose credibility in the Arab world if it did not temper its support for Israel.
Before Mr. Bush spoke, Israeli forces also raided four other West Bank villages today, arresting 20 men, the army said.
After a nearly two-week lull, Israel's northern border heated up again, as the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah renewed its attacks on Israeli outposts there. Israel responded with artillery fire.
Earlier this month, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell flew to Lebanon and Syria to press for quiet on the northern border, where regular fire fights had threatened to widen the conflict.
As Israeli soldiers maintain sieges in the West Bank cities of Ramallah and Bethlehem, Israeli forces elsewhere are now relying on tips from their intelligence services to move in and out of Palestinian areas in pursuit of wanted men, the army said. 
In Ramallah today, Palestinians and foreign supporters clashed with Israeli soldiers as several hundred demonstrators tried to march to the besieged headquarters of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. About a dozen people were reported wounded.
Israeli officials said that in attacking Qalqilya, the army had stopped three suicide bombers on their way to carry out a synchronized attack. An official said that once Mr. Bush knew of that outcome, he would be supportive of the Israeli raid.
The army said it had found several suicide belts in Qalqilya. It also said it had killed Raed Nazal, the local leader of the militant Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. But Palestinian officials did not immediately confirm that claim.
Mr. Sharon is raising taxes in part to pay for the military operation, the Israeli economy is continuing its slump, and the shekel is sliding against the dollar. But none of that seemed to matter, as some Israelis began tentatively returning this week to cafes and other public spaces in hopes that suicide bombings may have been stopped, at least for now. 
Demonstrators in the West Bank and Gaza today vented Palestinians' simmering anger over an Israeli offensive that placed hundreds of thousands of them under 24-hour curfew, and which cost an unknown number of civilian lives along with those of many gunmen. Hundreds of homes were damaged or destroyed, as were some mosques. Some Israeli commentators have questioned whether the military assault will contribute to peace in the long term. 
But Israelis are so pleased with the operation -- Israel's biggest ground offensive in 20 years -- that a plurality of 48 percent of those interviewed for the Maariv poll said journalists critical of government policy and the military operation should be forbidden to appear on television. 
A majority of 55 percent backed a decision to cancel a performance planned to honor a popular singer, Yaffa Yarkoni. She criticized the military operation after the performance was scheduled. 
A poll published today by the newspaper Yediot Ahronot also showed a rebound for the prime minister. Asked if they relied on Mr. Sharon to "lead the country successfully," 64 percent of respondents said they did, up from 45 percent in March. Both newspaper polls had margins of error of 4.5 percentage points.
The Israeli government argues that the United Nations mission to Jenin is stacked to judge Israel harshly, by emphasizing humanitarian concerns and ignoring military considerations and the threat Israel felt it faced from militants in the refugee camp. Palestinians charge a cover-up by Israel.
Israel particularly objects to Cornelio Sommaruga of Switzerland, the former president of the International Committee of the Red Cross. The team is headed by Martti Ahtisaari, a former Finnish president and longtime European diplomat who helped to negotiate an end to the 1999 war over Kosovo, and includes Sadako Ogata of Japan, the former United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
"Israel wants to hide the massacres and disasters committed in the camp," said Nabil Aburdeineh, an aide to Mr. Arafat. "Israel continues challenging the international community."
In a statement tonight, Israel's defense minister, Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, said, "We want the fact-finding team to operate according to the principles of justice, and first and foremost to examine how Jenin turned into the 'suicide bomber capital.' "
He said it was surprising that the United Nations had not called for investigations after deadly Palestinian suicide bombings.
Israeli officials said tonight that Palestinians in Jenin were digging up bodies of those who died before the Israeli attack and adding them to a mass grave of more than two dozen people who were killed during the operation. More than 40 bodies of people killed in the fighting have been identified by hospital officials in Jenin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinians and foreign supporters trying to march to Yasir Arafat's besieged compound clashed with Israeli soldiers in Ramallah yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TERRORISM (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); REFUGEES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) ;UNITED NATIONS; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BENNET, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; SAUDI ARABIA; QALQILYA (WEST BANK); JENIN (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



671 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: China's Man to Watch Steps Into the U.S. Spotlight 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 26 

 BODY:
The mystery man expected to take over as China's leader this fall starts his first visit to the United States this weekend in a diplomatic debut that will be as closely watched at home as abroad.
 Vice President Hu Jintao, 59, is the star of the "younger" generation of leaders now moving into power in China's extremely secretive Communist elite. In his increasingly frequent media appearances here, he comes across as blandly modern -- never seen with a hair out of place and never heard speaking out of turn. 
 Mr. Hu has spent the last year parroting President Jiang Zemin's calls to modernize the party, and even his impromptu remarks hew to the party line of the day. He never upstages his boss, nor coins any memorable phrases that rivals could use against him. 
While he is described as bright and an effective organizer, even the cognoscenti here do not know his real inner leanings. Earlier this week, in Malaysia en route to the United States, he was asked why he seemed inscrutable. "That description is unfair to me," he replied, declining further comment.
In the best Chinese style, Mr. Hu has maintained his pole position to succeed President Jiang by working tirelessly inside the Communist Party through a string of jobs in the provinces -- most notably in Tibet, where he was party secretary when martial law was declared in 1989 to quash nationalist unrest -- and in Beijing, building alliances and leaving no imprints.
"He's certainly smart and adept at protecting himself, but we have no idea where he stands on most crucial issues," said Bao Tong, a party intellectual with liberal views who was imprisoned after the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown.
"We're totally ignorant about what role he'll play in China's political reforms," Mr. Bao said. "Perhaps he'll spend a career floating with the tide of events, or perhaps he's an ambitious hero biding his time."
Much more than the usual vice presidential courtesy call, Mr. Hu's trip to the United States, like his first foray through Western Europe earlier this year, is a scripted step into the spotlight for a senior official who has kept his head down since he was vaulted into the Communist Party's top ranks 10 years ago by Deng Xiaoping.
Virtually alone among his peers, Mr. Hu has reportedly never seen the United States, though one of his children attended graduate school in New York.
The trip is thus an essential coming out for Mr. Hu, who is expected to become secretary general of the Communist Party this fall and president in the spring, but it is not without risks.
To protect his standing at home, Mr. Hu must strike a delicate balance, facing up to Washington for what are seen here as provocative actions over Taiwan, while still fostering closer friendship with a country regarded as vital to China's development.
"Policy toward the United States and especially regarding Taiwan is very sensitive in China and if Hu says anything wrong, it would be dangerous for him," said Chu Shulong, an expert on American politics at Qinghua University. "At the same time, the Chinese people also feel it's important for Hu to see the United States and meet its leaders." 
The weeklong visit starts Saturday with a stop in Honolulu, where Mr. Hu will tour Pearl Harbor and meet the commander of the United States forces in the Pacific. He will go on to New York for bows at Wall Street and Ground Zero, and to Washington for meetings with President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Congressional leaders. 
At stake, as the party titans and their acolytes maneuver for future posts ahead of the five-year party congress this fall, is just how preeminent Mr. Hu will be in the decade ahead. China is taking on a larger global role, but faces daunting social problems at home and percolating demands for political change.
The overriding question, political insiders say, is how much authority Mr. Jiang will retain in the years of his nominal retirement, and Mr. Hu's performance next week could influence the result.
Mr. Jiang, 76, considers himself a shrewd statesman who can guide China through international shoals. His supporters are pushing for him to retain his third top post, as head of the military, as he gives up the party leadership and presidency.
But even more so, the placement of Mr. Jiang's associates within future party ranks, determined through secret bargains among the party elite, will determine his influence behind the scenes.
"The most important short-term challenge for Hu is to handle his relationship with Jiang, who is expected to retain considerable influence if not some official position for the next three to five years," said Minxin Pei, a Chinese-born expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. 
"Hu will have his hands tied on many personnel and policy issues during much of his first term," Mr. Pei said. "But the problems that accumulated during the Jiang period -- corruption, rising inequality, slow reform of state enterprises and stagnation on the front of political reform -- will require quick action."
Mr. Hu's first tricky task comes next week. 
The Bush administration has set alarms ringing with its more assertive support for Taiwan's defense, seen here as a dangerous step from the status quo. If he appears soft with the Americans on the gut issue of Chinese sovereignty over Taiwan, Mr. Hu will lose face and power -- though few expect this polished operator to stumble.
In private, according to the few Western scholars and officials who have met him, Mr. Hu is businesslike and bright. He is known for his photographic memory and comes across as a quick study who is genuinely versed in the details of policy. 
If, for tactical reasons, he has avoided Western travel during his ascent, he has not lived in a shell: his daughter recently completed a master's program in finance, under an assumed name, at Columbia University.
Initially at least, Mr. Hu is expected to continue in Mr. Jiang's tradition with incremental change -- pushing the transition to a globally driven market economy while only tinkering with the one-party structure.
Perhaps even more urgently than Mr. Jiang, Mr. Hu and other rising leaders are groping for ways to broaden the appeal of the party and improve its ability to govern. Political alternatives are being studied and debated at the Central Party School in Beijing, formally under Mr. Hu's direction, though no insider can suggest giving up the party monopoly.
Yet according to many political experts here and abroad, continuity and tinkering may not be enough to counter problems posed by corruption, stagnant rural incomes and unemployment as well as the rise of a strong-minded middle class.
"The focal point of previous efforts has been on economic reform," said Joseph Fewsmith, an expert on Chinese politics at Boston University. "The focus is now turning to social justice -- what happens to those left behind?"
"The bad news is that pressures are mounting quickly," Mr. Fewsmith said. "The good news is that the problems are so difficult to cope with that nobody expects an immediate solution." 
But advances must be achieved during Mr. Hu's first five-year term, he added, "or there is a likelihood that the problems will become unmanageable." 
Born in 1942 to a merchant family from Anhui Province, Mr. Hu earned a degree in hydroelectric engineering from Qinghua University in Beijing in 1965. He joined the party in college, despite a "suspect" family background that he seems to have overcome with ease.
In the late 1960's during the Cultural Revolution, like many college graduates, he was sent to work in more backward areas, in his case in the northwest province of Gansu, where he emerged as local leader of the Communist Youth League. 
He rose to national chief of the league and in 1985, at 42 and already remarked by party elders, he was appointed party secretary of the southern province of Guizhou. Next, he was party chief of Tibet during the late 1980's, a time of mounting anti-Chinese feelings. When rioting broke out in 1989, he quickly brought in troops and imposed order with martial law, proving once more his loyalty to the party.
Heads turned in 1992 when Deng Xiaoping, anxious to cultivate younger leaders, appointed Mr. Hu to the seven-member Standing Committee of the Politburo, the country's effective ruling body. 
The first close look many Chinese had of their vice president came in 1999, a few days after the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade.
The nation was racked with emotion and demonstrators were besieging the United States Embassy in Beijing. Mr. Hu delivered the leadership's televised statement -- a somber speech in which he endorsed the nationalist outrage but said firmly that it was time to get back to work. 
Now, Chinese are wondering whether Mr. Hu can muster the power and creativity to lead China.
"People are asking what will happen when the economy has severe difficulties or even a major crisis," said a member of a party research institute. "What can the party leaders offer?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's vice president, Hu Jintao, arriving at the official government palace in Singapore yesterday. He is on his way to the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHILDREN (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (54%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; HU JINTAO (VICE PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TIBET (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



672 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: State to Ask for More Money For Rebuilding From Congress 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
New York will ask Congress for more than the $21.3 billion it has already been promised to help rebuild Lower Manhattan, Senator Charles E. Schumer told a conference of civic and urban-planning groups yesterday.
 "We'll come back and ask for more and I think we'll be successful in asking for more," Mr. Schumer said, addressing the Regional Plan Association's annual assembly, a meeting that focused on the challenges and priorities faced by the city after the attack on the World Trade Center. 
 Mr. Schumer told reporters after his address that more money would probably be needed for the repair and revitalization of Lower Manhattan's transportation system and the redevelopment of its waterfront.
The request will come after the current allocation is completely dedicated to specific projects, he said.
"If the request is well thought out, there is sympathy for New York" in Washington, Mr. Schumer said. "It is the view that we're spending the money wisely."
Top officials of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey were in Washington last week to brief the Congressional appropriations committees on plans to rebuild the region's transportation network. The officials outlined $7.3 billion in projects, an amount four times the $1.8 billion that President Bush has so far specified for use on transit. 
Mr. Schumer and other speakers at the conference yesterday also urged city and state officials to go slow in their efforts to rebuild and to create a memorial to the victims of the attack.
Earlier this week, in a request for proposals from urban planners for help with the rebuilding effort, the development corporation and the Port Authority laid out an aggressive schedule for rebuilding, which would have plans for the Trade Center site settled by the end of the year.
Asked yesterday where the rebuilding effort should be by the first anniversary of the attacks, Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, said: "There is a danger in setting firm deadlines. We're not trying to create the Lower Manhattan of the next 5 years or 10 years. We're trying to create the city of the next 100 years."
In a report that formed the agenda for the conference, the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York, a collection of more than 85 civic, academic, business and environmental groups led by the Regional Plan Association, said that the rebuilding effort in Lower Manhattan should include a significant expansion of the area's residential population and of the services residents need, including schools, parks and moderately priced housing.
The report was also highly critical of direct subsidies to businesses and residences, including the type of grants to 14 major downtown employers announced yesterday, saying that they "are, in general, not an effective use of public money." 
Instead, the report said, money should be used for such things as transit services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) WYATT, EDWARD; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



673 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Raise Taxes? 

BYLINE:  By Daniel Cantor; Daniel Cantor is executive director of the Working Families Party of New York State.

 BODY:
For most of the last 25 years, in most of the country, politicians have met every public policy challenge with one solution: cut taxes. Faced with failing schools and increasing income inequality, leaders from Ronald Reagan to Rudolph Giuliani have insisted that tax cuts are the best strategy for economic growth. But if New York City is to rebuild after Sept. 11, it will have to try a different strategy.
 The city's budget shortfall has ballooned to $4.7 billion, more than the entire budgets of most cities. Recession, terrorism and the Giuliani administration's decision in boom times not to save for a rainy day have left the city in an astonishingly deep hole. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed answer is a budget that basically combines huge spending cuts with a lot of borrowing. He also hopes that Albany and Washington will help out more than appears likely, and he wants to tax the daylights out of cigarettes (leading to the perverse situation in which parents' smoking would actually be good for school funding).
The mayor is so tax-phobic that he has even avoided calling for the return of the commuter tax, a tiny income tax on nonresidents that helps spread the cost of city services more evenly. Overall, the Bloomberg budget takes the wrong lessons from New York's past and leaves the city ill-prepared.
Cities are not built on tax cuts, and they are not sustained by irresponsible spending cuts. New York became a world center because its leaders knew that public investments in education, transportation and housing would bring businesses and people from all over world.
Such investments have kept New York's economy dynamic. However, in recent years City Hall has moved away from careful public investment. It used the thriving economy to make $2.6 billion in tax cuts, a foolish gamble that has left the city in bad financial shape.
The city's leaders now face a stark choice. They can either raise taxes or make deep cuts to a wide range of services. The mayor's budget chooses to do the latter: $350 million from schools, $80 million from day care and millions more from the City University of New York, libraries, parks and environmental protection programs. Even a program providing weekend meals for seniors is axed. Cuts of this size will have terrible effects on the lives of children and adults.
The alternative is far more sound, even if it runs against the political grain: raise taxes, on a temporary basis, to maintain our core commitments. Given the extraordinary concentration of wealth in New York City, even small tax hikes could go a long way toward balancing the budget. For instance, increasing the city's income tax rate on wealthy individuals by 1 or 2 percentage points would bring in more than $1 billion, far more than Mr. Bloomberg's cuts to education, health care or any other single service. A tax of up to half a penny on stock transfers within the city could fortify city schools by another $800 million. In both cases, the economic impact would be minimal and far better for the local economy than cuts in city services.
Over the past decade, the benefits of the boom have worked together with city, state and federal tax cuts to make New York's incomes less equal. The top 13,400 tax filers in New York City in 2001 had a combined income that exceeded that of the bottom 2.1 million, according to an analysis of the most recent available figures by the New York City Independent Budget Office. The rich really have gotten richer, and my hunch is that they are not so selfish as to be unwilling to do their share in a crisis.
By insisting on no tax hikes, the mayor is asking the least from those who have benefited the most. That approach is sure to make life harder for the thousands of moderate- and low-income New Yorkers who don't have the cash to buy their way out of problems and count on the city to help get them to work, teach their kids and care for their elders.
In polls, New Yorkers have consistently said they don't mind paying higher taxes for better services. It's a trade-off that has benefited the city handsomely over the years. The city raised income taxes during the crime crisis in 1991. A decade later, the education crisis demands we act with similar verve. Do our elected leaders have the courage to set aside bankrupt ideas about taxes in favor of a fair solution to our fiscal woes? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CHILDREN (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CITIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TERRORISM (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%) CANTOR, DANIEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



674 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Federal Funds Will Keep 14 Companies Downtown 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
City and state officials announced yesterday that a university, a department store and three law firms were among 14 companies to receive nearly $33 million in federal grants intended to revitalize Lower Manhattan's economy.
 The grants represent the first round of an effort to keep major employers downtown and to attract new companies to Lower Manhattan -- which has been wracked by layoffs on Wall Street, corporate relocations and transportation problems since Sept. 11 -- Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki said at a news conference at City Hall. The 14 employers, which represent a combined total of 10,272 jobs, have committed themselves to remaining downtown for seven years or more. 
 "Because large companies employ more than half of the private jobs in Lower Manhattan, the stabilization of these corporations is essential," Mr. Bloomberg said. "These employers will revitalize the downtown community by restoring confidence in the area, stabilizing the job base, and providing needed foot traffic to small businesses."
It is unlikely that the employers -- Pace University, the Century 21 department store, Deloitte & Touche, Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, the law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson or any of the nine other firms awarded the grants yesterday -- were even thinking about leaving Lower Manhattan. Most of them have long-term leases for office space in buildings that escaped damage from the terrorist attack last September. The biggest single grant, $13 million, went to Deloitte & Touche.
But city and state officials are hoping to create a sense of momentum in the reconstruction effort downtown. They also want to restore confidence in the viability of the district and make it easier to hammer out deals with other companies and lure new business to the area.
The next round of companies, however, may prove to be far more difficult to nail down. The Bank of New York, for instance, is moving back to 101 Barclay St., but is planning to transfer some employees to Jersey City or the Atlantic Terminal area, in Brooklyn. AIG, the giant insurance company that is one of the largest downtown employers, is considering moving as many as 1,500 workers to Jersey City or to Brooklyn, according to real estate executives. 
Aon, the insurance company, which had its offices in the World Trade Center, is still looking for a home, possibly at 55 Water Street or 75 Wall Street.
Many companies are reluctant to sign deals committing them to keeping a specific number of employees downtown, said real estate executives and lawyers, although they certainly would want subsidies to move technical and database operations to Brooklyn or Long Island City. 
"There's no question that there are more complicated cases than some of those we signed up today," said Deputy Mayor Daniel Doctoroff. "Our goal is to have every single company sign up and commit to staying in Lower Manhattan. We're beginning to see a snowballing of confidence."
The other employers whose grants were announced today are Ambac Financial Group; Bank of Nova Scotia; Deloitte Consulting; Holland & Knight, a law firm; Hughes Hubbard & Reed, another law firm; Media Planning Group; Nomura Holding America; Refco Group, a financial firm, and Wildcat Service Corporation, which does job training. The money is part of $700 million in community development block grants from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
Mr. Doctoroff said that the city and the state decided early on to offer benefit packages to all 145 companies in Lower Manhattan that have more than 200 employees. Those at risk of leaving the city may get more than others, he said.
The mayor and the governor, who are both Republicans, were joined at the news conference by three Democrats, Senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Clinton and State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who all congratulated each other on cooperating on downtown reconstruction.
Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, a private foundation, said that public officials should also invest in job training for thousands of hotel workers, clerks, mechanics and others affected by the disaster. "Future funds need to be used to develop coordinated job training and industry development," she said. "They need to address the 75,000 low-wage workers who lost their jobs."
After 2,800 people died at the trade center and more than 13 million square feet of office space was destroyed, some financial firms, like Lehman Brothers, decided to abandon downtown, while many others sought to disperse their operations.
American Express and Merrill Lynch have moved back to the World Financial Center, although hundreds of workers at both companies have been laid off.
As a result, the vacancy rate in downtown office buildings has soared to 17 percent, from 4 percent two years ago, according to TenantWise.com, a commercial real estate broker. 
"This is clearly a step in the right direction," said M. Myers Mermel, chief executive of TenantWise. "But the economy continues to exacerbate a soft real estate market created by the flight of tenants from Lower Manhattan post 9/11."
Raymond Gindi, the chief operating officer of Century 21, which employs 1,000 people at its store at 22 Cortlandt Street, said he was glad to see the grant money. The store, which was damaged in the collapse of the twin towers, reopened two months ago. The street in front of the store is still closed to traffic, he said, and business is still off. He is hoping to survive until nearby subway and PATH train stations are rebuilt.
"We're appreciative of what we're getting," Mr. Gindi said, "but we need all the help we can get."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fourteen employers are getting grants to stay in Lower Manhattan. Officials announcing the grants were, from left, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Roy Benardi, assistant secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Senator Hillary R. Clinton; Gov. George E. Pataki; and Senator Charles E. Schumer. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CITIES (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MAJOR GIFTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (91%); FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (84%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (68%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (87%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); CHARLES SCHUMER (60%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



675 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economy Grew Strongly In 1st Quarter 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The economy grew this winter at its fastest pace in more than two years, the government said yesterday, delivering a clear sign that the recession has ended and that a new expansion has started briskly.
 But analysts said that growth was unlikely to continue at the 5.8 percent pace of the first three months of the year, pointing to signs that the economy has already weakened slightly in April. 
 Indeed, most stocks fell yesterday, as worries about profits and a report showing a small decline in consumer confidence outweighed the news that first-quarter growth exceeded even most optimistic predictions, analysts said. The Dow Jones industrial average closed below 10,000 for the first time since February, falling 124.34 points, to 9,910.72.
But there was no doubt the economic downturn is over. Consumers, flush with large tax refunds and helped by low interest rates, continued to spend freely in the first quarter of the year. 
Business executives eased off on the drastic reduction of excess inventories that had stemmed from fears the Sept. 11 attacks would deepen the recession.
And the federal government gave the economy a big push by increasing military spending at the fastest rate since the Vietnam War.
The 5.8 percent annual growth rate in the nation's economic output for the first quarter was up sharply from the 1.7 percent pace for the final quarter of 2001. The Commerce Department report confirmed that few of last year's widespread economic fears had come true and that the recent recession, which officially began last March but has not yet been formally declared over, was one of the mildest since World War II.
"The recession is dead and gone," said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. "We're now in the new expansion."
The expansion has yet to benefit most workers, however, because wage gains have remained meager in recent months and businesses have continued to cut jobs in an effort to lift badly sagging profits. Moreover, the risk of wider conflict in the Middle East continues to generate fears that any sharp rise in oil prices could dampen the recovery.
The uncertainty has scrambled political calculations during a congressional election year. The end of the downturn may have taken a potential campaign issue away from Democrats, but Republicans remain wary of claiming victory over the recession until unemployment has begun to drop. President Bush's father, despite a victory in the war against Iraq, lost the 1992 election largely because of economic worries that plagued much of his term. 
Speaking at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., yesterday, President Bush said he was still worried that the economy remained vulnerable to further weakness. "I know we've got a lot of work to do," Mr. Bush said, arguing that Congress should ensure stronger growth by passing bills on trade, energy and terrorism insurance that he favors. 
Still, the recent growth, the president said, is "a good sign that we're on the path to long-term recovery."
The speed at which the economy has begun growing again has surprised even most Wall Street forecasters, who generally err on the side of optimism. In fact, by one popular definition, the economy escaped recession altogether because it only shrank for a single quarter during the summer rather than two or more quarters.
But few economists doubt the recent downturn deserves to be called a recession, largely because the country lost 1.4 million jobs over the last year as industrial production plunged. 
As they did throughout the recession, consumers increased their spending in the first quarter. Spending rose 3.5 percent, down from 6.1 percent at the end of 2001, but still at a pace considered strong. New spending on services and day-to-day purchases of less expensive items overcame a modest falloff in purchases of car and trucks.
The Gillette Company, for example, said this week that sales of its Mach3 razors were better than it had expected. Amazon.com and eBay, the online merchants, both had good quarters. Even car and truck sales have remained stronger than most executives expected, given how many people bought new vehicles late last year during big sales that featured zero-percent financing.
"All these predictions that people were not going to buy because of the end of zero percent just have not been true," said Frank A. Ursomarso, the president of Union Park Automotive, which owns seven car dealerships in Wilmington, Del. "I guess people are figuring that they're in a better position than they thought they would be."
With the weather unusually warm and mortgage rates low, spending on housing construction -- which is not included in consumer spending -- jumped 15.7 percent, the biggest rise in six years.
Military spending also surged -- growing at a 19.6 percent rate, the most since 1967 -- as the war in Afghanistan continued, and the Pentagon geared up for potential missions. State and local government spending increased at a 5.6 percent pace, but it is expected to fall in coming months as governments struggle to close budget deficits.
Businesses, trying to shake off the lingering effects of the spending binge of the late 1990's, have remained more conservative than consumers or the government, but executives showed some signs of changing course early this year. 
Spending on software and equipment was virtually flat, declining just 0.5 percent, in the first quarter, after falling significantly the previous four quarters.
Without increases during the coming months, however, the recovery is likely to be only modest.
"I would urge some caution until we see a recovery in business investment, which we expect later in the year," R. Glenn Hubbard, the chairman of the White House's council of economic advisers, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
During the quarter, businesses continued to reduce the value of the goods stockpiled in warehouses and elsewhere. But in a sign of measured optimism, they did so at a much slower pace than in the last six months of 2001. The change suggests production has begun to rise; the inventory swing accounted for more than half of last quarter's growth.
Earlier this month, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said he was concerned that consumer demand might not remain strong enough to spur businesses to restock their storage facilities and retail shelves. Mr. Greenspan said the Fed planned to keep interest rates low this year until it was clear the recovery was securely in place. 
Inflation remained tame during the first quarter, according to yesterday's report, giving the Fed greater flexibility to leave rates low without worrying about spiraling prices. Prices of goods purchased by Americans rose at an annual rate of only 0.6 percent, the Commerce Department said, down from 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter.
Even though consumers continue to increase their spending, they are still flocking to low-priced goods, making it difficult for many companies to raise prices and profits. Consumers "are looking for bargains," said Herbert M. Baum, chief executive of the Dial Corporation, a maker of soap, laundry detergent and other items.
Dial's sales increased 5 percent in the first quarter, but Mr. Baum said he remained skeptical that rapid growth was here to stay. "The economy is on a slow road to recovery," he said. "I think it will be some time before it gets back to where it was."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers at Willowbrook Mall in Wayne, N.J., and elsewhere continued to spend freely in the first quarter. Spending rose 3.5 percent, down from 6.1 percent at the end of 2001, but still a pace considered strong. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart/Graph: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracking the annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product since 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); INVENTORIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); ENERGY MARKETS (65%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMERS AND CONSUMPTION 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (65%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002 



676 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Soviet Science 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I must take issue with one aspect of Loren Graham's thought-provoking review of Richard Lourie's "Sakharov" (April 7). Graham asserts that contrary to the famous example of Trofim Lysenko and his pseudogenetics, Andrei Sakharov was an example of a scientist who produced his best work under repressive conditions. 
The key difference is that genetics (as well as economics and anthropology) comments directly on the human condition, and therefore on whether real human needs will be met by a given power structure. In addition to Lysenko's famous agricultural capers, there was a deadly debate as to whether disposition toward higher intelligence could ever be generally distributed throughout the population -- an explosive question for a state pretending to a Marxist future.
Also, as a multiethnic empire, the Soviet Union was prepared to distort linguistics and anthropology to prop up the gray reductivism of Pan-Slavism.
 Sakharov and his colleagues, in their work, may have asked some of the technologically deadliest questions yet asked, but they could not have challenged the Marxist state's monopoly on describing human nature and its future. Sakharov became a target -- and a threat -- only when he began to ask, "What then is to be done?" The discoveries themselves were merely physically explosive.

Benjamin Pierce
Madison, Wis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: PIERCE, BENJAMIN; GRAHAM, LOREN; LOURIE, RICHARD; SAKHAROV, ANDREI D (1921-89) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (50%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: SAKHAROV: A BIOGRAPHY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



677 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 3216 words

HEADLINE: Complicating The Race 

BYLINE:  By Jonathan D. Tepperman; Jonathan D. Tepperman is a senior editor at Foreign Affairs.

 BODY:
Cory Booker was working the room at Casa Israel, a medical care center in Newark where low-income patients undergoing treatment can spend the afternoon playing checkers or doing crafts. Booker, dressed in a dark suit and yellow tie, was shaking hands and bantering with the staff in Spanish as he methodically moved through the room. The response was adoring, which wasn't hard to understand: the strapping 32-year-old city councilman is a handsome local celebrity, and his photo was on the front page of The Star-Ledger that day in an article about his campaign to unseat Newark's longtime mayor, Sharpe James, in the election on May 14.
 The good feelings began to ebb, however, when an unsmiling middle-aged woman named Vera interrupted Booker to ask a question. "What I don't understand," she announced, "is where you're from. Where do you live? And what are you doing here?" 
 Booker looked momentarily deflated. Quickly regaining his composure, he leaned down and answered that, in fact, he lived nearby, on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. He pulled up a chair and started enumerating Newark's problems and the changes he'd make as mayor. After a few minutes, an aide pulled the candidate away, and with a last "God bless," he moved on to the other side of the room. Vera, however, remained unimpressed. Booker seemed smart, she said, but "I just don't see how someone who's not from around here can understand what's going on in Newark."
Cory Booker hears that kind of comment a lot these days. It is not entirely surprising; Booker, who would stand out in almost any room, is like nothing this town has ever seen. He has chiseled good looks, Clintonian political gifts and a resume that almost beggars belief: he was a football star at Stanford, a Rhodes scholar and a Yale law student. He is also a child of the white suburbs, making him a demographic anomaly in a city that is still mostly black and poor. Newark is not accustomed to politicians who speak in rapid-fire academic cadences and drop references to Frantz Fanon and Langston Hughes -- let alone Ivy League grads with a national following who raise most of their money out of town.
Vera's skepticism is something Booker is going to have to overcome quickly if he is going to win on May 14. His opponent in the nonpartisan election has powerful connections throughout the city and state. Sharpe James, like Booker a Democrat, is a veteran political street fighter, now running for his fifth term as mayor, and he has no intention of making way for a neophyte, whatever his credentials.
In recent weeks, the contest has become remarkably nasty, as James gleefully rips into what he sees as Booker's weaknesses: his pedigree, his background and his close ties to the power establishment outside Newark. Rumors, many reportedly linked to City Hall, have begun to circulate; the whispers in certain circles are that Booker is white, Jewish and financially supported by the Ku Klux Klan. In other circles, meanwhile, Booker is regularly referred to as someone who will end up the first black president of the United States. 
Cory Booker is not in fact Jewish or white, though with his pale green eyes, shaved head and light skin, it is almost plausible -- though not quite -- that someone might make the mistake. And he really does live in Newark. Not just in town, in fact, but in a housing project in one of the city's worst neighborhoods. Since 1998, Booker has rented a two-bedroom apartment in the Brick Towers development, an aging grimy apartment complex that stands at the heart of the Central Ward, the low-income area Booker has represented on the City Council for the last four years. It is an incongruous choice of residence for a college-educated councilman who earns over $85,000 a year. Security guards loiter outside, keeping the drug dealers at bay; inside, the elevator often breaks down and the stairwell is marked with gang graffiti. 
Booker's two-bedroom penthouse apartment, for which he pays an unsubsidized $600, is comfortable enough, dominated by exercise equipment, books and a video collection that tends toward Bible epics and science-fiction films. A poster of John F. Kennedy hangs on one wall; on the other, a window offers a panoramic view of Newark and the Manhattan skyline, 15 miles beyond.
The apartment is the base for what seems a rather monastic existence. Booker, who manages only five or six hours of sleep a night, hasn't had time to date much in the last few years. He is a relentless self-improver, seeking out "empowering" experiences, and there is little space in his routine for frivolities like fiction; the morning I dropped in, he had Nelson Mandela's biography on his night table. The only luxury the councilman allows himself, he says, is "Star Trek," which Booker tapes most days and then watches while working out.
Booker's critics do have part of the story right: The councilman grew up far from the slums -- in demographic, if not geographic, terms. Harrington Park, N.J., is one of many upper-middle-class suburbs that ring Newark; it was almost all white before Booker's family arrived in 1971. His parents, both I.B.M. executives, were unable to buy a house there until a friendly white couple agreed to pose as them and tour around with the real-estate agents; when the real Bookers showed up to close the deal, the enraged agent took a swing at their lawyer.
The family used to joke that they were "four raisins in a tub of vanilla ice cream," Booker says, but he excelled in this largely white, unintegrated environment. His parents, both veterans of the civil rights movement, were careful to school their kids in the spirit of struggle, and on frequent trips to Newark, where an uncle worked as a dentist, Booker's parents made sure Cory noticed the economic and racial disparities between that depressed city and their comfortable suburb. 
Booker became a high-school all-American tight end and a star student in Harrington Park before going on to Stanford on a football scholarship, Oxford and Yale -- and then back to inner-city Newark, in 1997, where he got a job as a housing advocate.
The decision to move to Newark seems to have involved a combination of conviction and ambition. Booker had become deeply involved with community service as an undergraduate -- mentoring kids in East Palo Alto, for example, when he wasn't in class or on the football field -- and Newark, with its many problems, seemed a place he could make his mark. "I felt inspired here," he says, "like Newark was a calling, not a choice." At the age of 28, a year after he arrived, he was elected city councilman for the Central Ward, beating a 16-year incumbent by registering more new voters than had even participated in the previous election. It was shortly after his election, honoring a campaign pledge, that he moved into Brick Towers.
Once on the City Council, Booker's political ideas began to evolve. He embraced more conservative policies, while at the same time adopting provocative, confrontational tactics more often associated with the left. He endorsed school vouchers -- a controversial idea in Newark -- as well as Giuliani-style zero-tolerance community policing and "faith-based initiatives," partnerships between government, churches and the private sector to administer social services. He quickly became frustrated by his inability to get things done on a City Council resistant to upstart reformers. ("Many, many times I got outvoted 8-1.") He began to stage media stunts to shame City Hall into taking action. In 1999, he pitched a tent and fasted for 10 days in front of one of Newark's worst housing projects to protest open-air drug dealing. 
Booker is now hoping to use this record -- strong on drama, slightly weaker on legislative accomplishment -- plus his impressive background and the sterling connections he has cultivated along the way to run a highly unusual campaign for mayor. He is not the first politician to sell himself as postpartisan. Nor is he the first black politician to run for office by trying to establish a diverse, cosmopolitan base. But there is something almost defiant about the ethnic universalism that Booker preaches and embodies. And he is one of the first black politicians to try to sell this New Age mix to a mostly black, working-class audience. Despite a recent, much-touted rejuvenation of its downtown, Newark remains largely poor, and though crime rates have dropped, they remain high. Politics in the city tends to be a cozy, insider affair. (Sometimes too cozy, in fact: Sharpe James's former chief of staff and his former police director have both been convicted on corruption-related charges.) And locals still harbor keen memories of the 1967 race riots that left 26 people dead, more than 1,000 injured and scars on the local landscape that remain visible to this day.
And there is one other obstacle, of course: to succeed on May 14, Booker will also have to persuade Newark's residents to dump Sharpe James, a politician who represents everything he is not. James, 66, is part of a slowly vanishing but still powerful breed of mayor -- radically different from the one Booker proposes to become. A slick politician who favors silk ties, monogrammed shirts and big cuff links, he is respected and feared in town for the way he distributes patronage and punishes opponents. As Prof. Dennis E. Gale of Rutgers explains, James came to power as part of a generation of activist black mayors that included Coleman Young in Detroit, Louis Stokes in Cleveland and Andrew Young in Atlanta, a group that "fought the good fight against the prevailing white establishment and showed that, yes, indeed, minorities could run City Hall at least as effectively as their predecessors." But as Clement A. Price, a Rutgers historian, argues, while mayors like James may have managed to break into the white power structure in racially divided cities, they often then ended up replicating, rather than reforming, the machine politics of their predecessors. James represents, Price says, the "old political style that was successful getting blacks elected but not, according to critics, as good at addressing the problems at the urban core."
For the time being, however, this style remains potent. James has already been endorsed by virtually every elected politician in New Jersey, including the Democratic governor, the state's two Democratic senators and eight of Newark's nine City Council members. He is widely credited with the city's rebirth: under his tenure, crime has dropped and a number of glittering new developments (including a performing-arts center and a minor-league baseball stadium) have come to town. Many locals seem happy to forgive his brash and combative tactics out of gratitude for his role in Newark's renewal. Whether they are willing to abandon him for a much younger, radically different alternative, therefore, remains very much to be seen.
Just how radically different that alternative is became clear to me an hour after the Casa Israel event, when Booker, over lunch, started quoting Golda Meir. Seated at a diner in Newark's Ironbound district -- home to the city's substantial Portuguese-speaking population -- Booker held forth over an omelet and home fries, breaking off the conversation every now and then to call out greetings in Greek or Spanish.
All politicians, of course, try to be all things to all people, and even Sharpe James has offered a shalom or two at one of Newark's few remaining synagogues. But Booker at points seemed to know more about my Jewish culture than I did. He is not just open to unconventional, at times contradictory, politics. He also seems committed to a far-reaching ethnic universalism, which was on marked display at lunch that day. 
A churchgoing Baptist, Booker also professes an interest in Buddhism and says that he meditates once or twice a day. He is a lifelong teetotaler, and he became a vegetarian in England after reading Gandhi. "He said, 'You have to be the change,"' Booker explained to me. "That's radical, to say you can live your life fully consistent with your beliefs." 
Booker's intense interest in other cultures feels like more than glib politics; it is a theme that quickly emerges in conversation with anyone who has known him over the years. Booker's Jewish connection dates back to Oxford, where one night during his first year there he was invited by a friend to a dinner held by a Jewish group on campus called the L'Chaim Society. Booker remembers showing up, he says, "though I couldn't even pronounce the name. I entered this room full of Orthodox Jews and was like, 'O.K., I'm in the wrong place.' It was like that commercial where you walk into a room and the music stops and everyone turns to stare."
Booker's friend didn't show, but just as Booker was turning to leave, the wife of the rabbi who ran the group asked him to stay anyway and join them for dinner. Booker and the rabbi -- a former Lubavitcher named Shmuley Boteach, who has gone on to become famous in his own right for publishing books like "Kosher Sex" -- were soon deep in discussion. In the weeks that followed, they started trading books. "I would give him Baldwin and DuBois," Booker says, "and he would give me Hillel."
The next year, Booker, at Boteach's urging, became president of L'Chaim -- its first (and only) non-Jewish, nonwhite student leader. Boteach has since moved back to New Jersey and has persuaded a few of his high-profile friends -- including Barbra Streisand and Michael Jackson -- to support Booker politically.
Booker's cultural ecumenism has, on one level, been very helpful in his current campaign, as have his centrist politics and his Ivy League connections. Unable to raise much money in Newark, where most donations go to the mayor, Booker has held fund-raising events in New York, Washington and the Jersey suburbs, many of these with Jewish donors. And the money is flowing in: he has already raised more than $2 million and says he hopes to hit $3 million by Election Day (and this in a town where only 40,000 people voted in the last election). The mayor has reportedly raised about the same.
Booker's charisma and comfort with sometimes sticky issues of race was on display at one recent fund-raiser at a Midtown Manhattan asset-management firm. Before a talk that would combine references to Martin Luther King with Wall Street vernacular (he would ask for help "leveraging Newark's core competencies"), Booker told the conservatively dressed, almost entirely white crowd a story from his football days at Stanford. It fell flat. Smiling, Booker confessed that he was used to a bit more of a response from the folks he talks to in Newark. "Come on," he said, ribbing his audience, "I want you to do like you've seen on BET." It didn't look as if there were many viewers of Black Entertainment Television in the room, but Booker pressed on. "I know you've seen it. Let me hear you shout out! Testify!" There were a few chuckles. Booker launched into his idealistic campaign speech, asking for help "to fight to change history in our city," and a half-hour later, his listeners were writing checks.
This kind of performance has helped Booker attract an impressive campaign staff -- a "best and the brightest" crowd made up in large part of high-achieving friends from Oxford, Yale and Stanford. Inside the "Bat Cave," as staff members call his South Street campaign headquarters, the bright-eyed young team includes a former Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker, a number of Capitol Hill veterans, former high-powered lawyers, an Indian-American investment banker and a public-relations consultant, Jennifer Bluestein, who helped run Betsy Gotbaum's recent successful campaign for public advocate in New York.
And yet the critical question remains how well all of this will play where it matters most: inside Newark. Booker's obstinate insistence on being himself -- the vegetarian, postracial, postpartisan idealist -- may work well much of the time, but it can also occasionally come across as startlingly naive. Sharpe James has leapt at the opportunity to highlight the differences between Booker and his constituents. He has slammed the councilman for supporting vouchers and other ideas outside the Democratic mainstream and mocked Booker for referring to his sizable outside donations as "love money." 
The most interesting thing about James's attacks, however, apart from their vitriol, is the way they reflect an attempt not just to undermine Booker's authenticity as a Newarker and a Democrat but also as a black man. This strategy has sometimes been overt (as with the rumors that Booker is Jewish or Klan-backed) and sometimes coded (as with the mayor's new campaign slogan, "The Real Deal"). But they point to the way this battle between two black politicians has in some ways become a struggle over competing definitions of race. James wants, Price says, to "suggest that Cory represents a white ploy to wrest the city away from black leadership and turn it into a different kind of town."
Omar Wasow, a friend of Booker's from Stanford who is now the executive director of BlackPlanet.com, charges that "James is trying to take advantage of an old story in the black community -- that the kid who does well in school is acting 'white.' It is an incredible insult -- to suggest that if you're a well-educated, accomplished African-American you have to turn in your black membership card." There is no question that Booker provides a far more nuanced approach to skin color and ethnicity than the mayor does, but he bristles when I suggest that he is running a raceless campaign. "Look," Booker says, frowning, "I am a black man who takes a lot of pride in my heritage and my people. I'm out there talking about race, fighting for race all the time.
"I haven't divorced myself from the tradition of African-American politics, which has always involved innovation and using new tactics for new situations." He pauses. "But I don't want to be a great black politician; I want to be a great politician."
The decision that Newarkers make in May may revolve around which model of black politics they feel more comfortable with. The Harvard sociologist Orlando Patterson argues that James's attacks on Booker's legitimacy are an anachronistic throwback to the angry black politics of the 60's and 70's. Playing the "black chauvinist card" worked, Patterson says, "when blacks were still segregated and your back was against the wall," but should be less effective today, when many of the battles against the color barrier in American society have been fought and won. In Newark, though, James's attacks still resonate. This is a city where being a Rhodes scholar can be a liability as much as an asset. As one local activist told me, "We are clear about who Rhodes was -- a millionaire from South Africa who was responsible for apartheid." Booker has begun to establish his appeal to a national audience -- in the last year his list of supporters has come to include Bill Bradley, George Will, Jack Kemp and the New York rainmaker Michael Steinhardt, who recently declared Booker his "favorite politician" -- but until May 14, the only question that matters for Booker is whether he will be able to convince enough voters to join the growing crowd. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 28 about the mayoral election campaign in Newark between two black candidates, Sharpe James and Cory Booker, misstated the given name of a former Cleveland mayor who is part of James's generation of black activists. He is Carl Stokes, not Louis.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Booker in the hallway outside his apartment in the Brick Towers housing project.; The campaignmobile. (Michael Edwards for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: TEPPERMAN, JONATHAN D; BOOKER, CORY; JAMES, SHARPE (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



678 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: STREETSCAPES / THE BARTOW-PELL MANSION IN THE BRONX; 
1842 Home, Now a Museum, in City's Largest Park

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH it is operated by the International Garden Club, "the garden is not why you come here," said Mary Means Huber, the co-curator of the 1842 Bartow-Pell Mansion in Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx.
 But now that windows and original paint colors have been restored and period furniture has been added, the mansion, on Shore Road just beyond the Orchard Beach turnoff, is looking outside again, with plans for the entryway and the surrounding land. 
 The house is hidden by a thicket that has grown over the estate, but to those who discover it a visit is a New York treat.
Pelham Bay Park, at more than 2,700 acres, is the city's largest park, although it is only a tiny part of the vast tract purchased in 1653 by Thomas Pell, a Connecticut physician. In 1836 Robert Bartow, a printer and publisher, bought about 30 acres, and by 1842 he had built a wide, severe stone-front house with panoramic views out to Long Island Sound. The exterior of the mansion is so dour it almost has the character of a workhouse, especially without the shutters shown in late 19th century photographs. 
But the interior is a rich surprise of Greek Revival styling: mahogany doors with silver fittings, pilastered door surrounds, rich cornices and ceiling medallions in the double parlor. The reception hall has an unusual elliptical stairway positioned in one corner and running past the windows. It is as elegant as any Hudson River mansion. 
No early drawings or photographs of the grounds have yet surfaced, but other similar shorefront estates had sweeping lawns and open views to the water. A 1904 photograph shows just this, although the house and immediate garden are now hedged in by later growth. 
Robert Bartow died in 1868, as the waterfront around New York was being taken over by industry, and his family sold the house to the city in the 1880's for what soon became Pelham Bay Park. 
This left the mansion empty, and in 1915 a new organization, the International Garden Club, arranged to lease the mansion for its clubhouse. The club was organized in 1914 by Alice Martineau, an English gardener and writer, and Zelia Hoffman, a rich Manhattan socialite. A 1914 article in The New York Times said that the club was to be modeled after the Royal Horticultural Society of Britain. 
Somehow the group hit on the idea of using the old Bartow mansion, by then long out of the public eye, as its clubhouse, and it negotiated a lease with the city that permitted exclusive use of the house, as long as the gardens were improved the public was admitted. 
The new gardens were meant to be at a magnificent scale, on the order of Kew in England. There is an early drawing for a vast rose garden on the property, and in 1916 Mrs. Hoffman interviewed the Olmsted Brothers firm -- founded by sons of Frederick Law Olmsted, the co-designer of Central Park -- for an ambitious landscape project.
The firm's notes on the conversation run like this: "Mrs. Hoffman spoke of ideas of having experimental gardens, tennis courts, terrace garden, wild garden, trial gardens, hardy garden, spring garden, a bog garden, perhaps a greenhouse. Many ideas, nothing definite." 
Perhaps Mrs. Hoffman's ideas were too ambitious. The club completed only a renovation of the house, designed by Delano & Aldrich, and a suave but modest enclosed garden between the house and Long Island Sound. 
A description of the interior from Harpers Bazaar in 1915 details the furnishings of a typical private club: Chippendale sofas, Venetian chairs, Chinese porcelain, chintz, floral paintings and the like. 
In 1921 Mrs. Hoffman moved to Norfolk, England. She died in England in 1929, after an unsuccessful run for Parliament. But the International Garden Club continued to use the Bartow mansion as its clubhouse. 
In June 1936, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia took over the house as his "summer city hall" to be nearer his family in Westport, Conn. This sparked a protest in front of the downtown City Hall by 200 unemployed workers who complained about the move and sought to have welfare benefits increased. 
But Mayor LaGuardia persisted, saying it was 15 degrees cooler than in downtown Manhattan. An interview by Russell Owen in The New York Times Magazine captured the mayor's frenetic pace: "Here's a letter from a boy whose father was fired from one of the departments. We had to do it; it was necessary for the good of the service. But this lad wants a job to carry on the support of the family. Get him a job driving a truck or something. Gosh, how can you always be hard-boiled with people? I can't." 
"It's a pleasure up here," the mayor continued, "but the reason I came here was because I wanted to make New Yorkers realize that this is a big city, that it does not all center in Manhattan." 
In 1946 the club opened the house as a museum, and in 1959 it still had a substantial planting program: 37 perennials, as against only three or four in recent years. 
In the last five years the International Garden Club has repainted almost all the rooms their original colors -- including plum, pale blue, yellow and pale green -- and refined its collection of generally Empire style furniture, which includes an exuberant bed by Charles Honore Lannuier, with an elaborate canopy in orange and white. 
THE Bartow-Pell Mansion has just hired a new director, Robert Engel, who said that his goals in the next five years included opening up the land between the formal garden and the carriage house, removing the parking area from in front of the building and remaking the frontage near the entrance gate.
Access is a particular problem, at least for New Yorkers. On a recent weekend most of the visitors had driven in from Westchester or Connecticut. Carless New Yorkers need to take a No. 6 train to the end of the line, and then take a cab or a No. 45 bus, which does not run on Sundays. On May 20, the Historic House Trust, the group that oversees historic buildings in New York City parks, is giving an all-day bus tour of three houses: Bartow-Pell, the Morris-Jumel Mansion in Manhattan and the Van Cortlandt Mansion in the Bronx. The cost is $100. (Reservations: (212) 360-8737).
The Bartow-Pell garden is small -- the flower beds could fit inside one of the house's parlors -- but the mansion is set in the middle of a network of trails along the park's waterfront. Along the trails are the Pell family graveyard, a blanket of ground flowers, and banks of tall yellow marsh plants with tips like feather dusters.
The house is open from noon to 4 p.m. on Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, but the grounds are open more often, on a seasonal schedule. (Information: (718) 885-1461). Mr. Engel said that he hoped in the future to open the mansion to the public five days a week. On June 9 an annual fair will be held, with pony rides, demonstrations, and other events. 
Despite its ambitious name, the International Garden Club is relatively small, with about 350 members, said Nancy Wixom of Pawling, N.Y., the other co-curator. But even with modest attendance and a low admission price to the house -- $2.50 -- the group manages, with the help of contributions, to raise the $250,000 annual cost of maintaining the mansion.
"I'd rather do this than play tennis," said Ms. Huber, the co-curator.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The front of the Bartow-Pell Mansion, above (Archives of the Bartow-Pell Mansion), about 1880. Left, the garden side today. Mansion is run by the International Garden Club. (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GARDENING (78%); HORTICULTURE (73%); WRITERS (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%) BARTOW-PELL MANSION MUSEUM (NYC); MUSEUMS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL GARDEN CLUB 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%) PELHAM BAY PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



679 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-28-02: ECONOMICS OF: TRANSPORTATION; 
The Price of Going the Distance

BYLINE:  By Stephanie Mencimer 

 BODY:
Gas prices jumped 23 cents a gallon in March, the biggest one-month jump in a decade or more, and the Bush administration is nervous. After all, Americans are famously crotchety when it comes to paying another few cents a gallon. But this oversensitivity to gas prices seems misplaced. In fact, gas prices have remained remarkably low over the past 20 years, even with the recent spike. Had they kept pace with inflation since 1982, the price of a gallon of gas today would be about $2.45 -- about a dollar more than consumers now pay. 
 But despite bargain-basement gas prices, transportation costs have shot up more than 50 percent in some parts of the country over the past decade. According to a report by the Surface Transportation Policy Project, in a single year, Americans spend five times as much on transportation as the federal government spends on all road building and public transit. And in most parts of the country, people now spend more on transportation than on medical care, education, clothing and entertainment -- combined. In fact, in at least seven American metro areas, residents spend more on transportation than they do on housing, and the rest of the country is close behind. Take Houston, for instance, where the average resident drives 38 miles per day and devotes 21 percent of his household expenditures -- $9,722 annually -- to transportation. That's 32 percent more than he pays for shelter. And that's not because Houston's housing is cheap. It isn't; Houston residents spend 3 percent more than the national average on shelter. 
 Oddly enough, gasoline accounts for a mere 17 percent of these expenses. All the rest comes from the car itself: repairs, insurance, financing and so on. The average new car today has a price tag of $26,000. But the real culprit behind skyrocketing transportation costs is Americans' quest for cheaper housing. New suburban houses may look cheap on paper, but getting to them is not. A car is the price of admission to suburban life, which tends to offer few public-transit options. Teenagers with busy schedules can turn the driveway of a family of four into a facsimile of a Honda dealership.
Cars are proliferating so quickly in the suburbs that they now threaten the very lawns that make those areas so desirable. In places like Fairfax, Va., where both public transportation and affordable housing are nearly nonexistent, immigrant families have recently taken to paving over most of their yards to accommodate seven or eight vehicles. It's no wonder that when the cost of living gets to be too much, people talk about abandoning the house to take up residence in the backs of their station wagons. Without the car, there can be no house. Still, rarely do you catch people complaining about car payments. Instead, Americans are content to gripe about the only part of commuting that's still cheap: the gas. Stephanie Mencimer

GRAPHIC: Photo (Kevin Cooley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SUBURBS (88%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COST OF LIVING (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); FAMILY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOUSING 

PERSON: MENCIMER, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



680 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Record of Wretchedness From the Soviet Eden

BYLINE:  By VICKI GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
BORIS MIKHAILOV went into photography full time largely because the Soviet government did not approve of his photographs. He was an engineer who worked in a factory and took pictures in his spare time. The K.G.B., on one of its "checkups," found some photographs of nudes in his lab. He was fired. 
 After that, he worked unofficially and indeed illegally in what was known as the "shadow economy," where entrepreneurs practiced capitalism on a small scale. He enlarged and printed snapshots from people's family albums, which, as he has pointed out, gave him a vast knowledge of Soviet amateur photography. 
 He took another "forbidden" picture of a woman, this one fully clothed, that pleased him very much. She was holding a cigarette butt, which Soviet women didn't do in photographs because they were obliged to represent an ideal. Mr. Mikhailov decided that photography could be a means of self-expression that extended beyond the cramped limits of the Soviet rule book. 
His work became a private protest. He was not allowed to photograph and did not show in official exhibitions, but in the Soviet Union and the countries it dominated, unofficial shows were held in apartments, even in cafes and laundries, where people gathered to talk and exchange ideas. The arts might be muzzled, but they could still growl.
When Soviet communism tottered and fell, Mr. Mikhailov kept on protesting against the old mandates of moderation and the long tradition of hiding, denying or simply ignoring the truth. "Boris Mikhailov: The Insulted and the Injured" at Pace/MacGill tells some pretty grisly truths. It is his first major gallery show in the United States, though he has had solo shows in a number of European museums. His message is important and forcefully delivered when at its most immoderate. Mr. Mikhailov is at his best when he does his worst. He has an uncommonly powerful grasp of misery.
Content is everything here. He has picked up from the carelessly inclusive nature of amateur photography a knack for throwing in extraneous details that turn out to be what really matters. In the eight pictures from the "Salt Lake" series of 1986 (soon to be published by Steidl), people bathe and chat and have a fine old time in a Ukrainian lake. These pictures, color images made from toned black-and-white prints, have acquired an off-putting sepia cast. They describe a dreary spot, with low concrete buildings, a huge pipe that people cling to in the water and little islands of bubbles that float placidly among the bathers. In fact, the untreated factory effluent empties right here into the lake, but the bathers evidently do not care.
The rest of the show consists of 3 very large and 36 small (about 7-by-10-inch) color photographs from a series called "Case History," made in 1999. These portraits -- no, that's too kind a word -- these raw images of homeless people in Kharkov, Ukraine, Mr. Mikhailov's home town, are sometimes intensely painful. Outdoors in the snow, a woman who has pulled her panties to her knees holds her blouse above her breasts while a man with a woeful face holds her and cups one hand under the collapse of her scarred stomach. 
Another woman, who points laughingly at her man's exposed, not particularly amusing stomach, had a bandaged head and an extravagantly black eye. One of his eyes stares permanently at his nose. Elsewhere a woman squats to empty her bowels on a concrete floor. One entire image is a discolored breast with three large stitches and a dark blue blouse folded around it. 
"My aesthetic," Mr. Mikhailov told an interviewer two years ago, "talks mainly about the dissolution of beauty." Well, it has dissolved, along with a society. Mr. Mikhailov has borne witness to a social history that did not, could not, exist before. The Soviets would not have allowed these photographs, but, according to Mr. Mikhailov, in those days there were no homeless people in Kharkov. This account is a lesson in the formation of class distinctions, which communism was supposed to erase. Mr. Mikhailov's pictures might just prove Marx right: look what capitalism has produced. 
A gallery may not be the optimal place to see this work; its real force is better understood in a book titled "Case History" (Scalo, 1999). Though repeated assault has insulated and nearly bullet-proofed my visual responses, I find the book shocking. It's not just the poverty and hardship, not even the bodily erosion and stony sorrow, but the theatrical sense of intimacy that stings my eyes. People open up -- unzip their jackets and trousers, display wounds, tattoos, growths on their genitals, suffering, resignation, defiant dignity and seriousness that is alternately wan and fierce. Complaisantly or matter-of-factly they strip away layers of human protective disguise, whether of fabric or pretense. 
The pictures have a terrible cumulative power, and Mr. Mikhailov's use of sequential images illuminates both the way he works and his subjects' lives. He includes scenes of real affection, for the same or the opposite sex, one man for both a woman and a man. This man's male friend is fairly good looking until his mouth is forced open, exposing the few rotten teeth he has left. 
A couple of women remember that it is supposed to be sexy to exhibit your body. A few laugh. The kids have a great time and inhale something or other from pink plastic bags. Mostly this life is not a laughing matter. Mr. Mikhailov writes that generally people forced into homelessness died and that those who elected it survived. Other photographers, like Luc Delahaye and Gueorgui Pinkhassov, have pictured the failed territories of post-Soviet life, and gruesomely. Mr. Mikhailov's photographs convey an unnerving sense of penetrating skin to the bone or to despair. 
These photographs come smack up against the potential for exploitation so hotly debated in the criticism of documentary photography. He paid his subjects to pose -- he says it would have been immoral not to -- and often directed them, for instance, to take off their clothes. He writes that "manipulating with money is somehow a new way of legal relations" in the former U.S.S.R. and he wanted to show how openly people can be manipulated. His wife earned the trust of people who were afraid of everything, and he invited some of them to his home, let them take baths, gave them a drink and evidently food as well. 
He had the power of money and of the camera; they had none. They all agreed to have their pictures published in magazines so others would know how they lived. The imbalance of power inherent in photographing the poor remains disturbing.
He has written that the homeless are either totally ignored or randomly kicked or shoved into the street. One passer-by shouted at him for photographing a man on the ground then walked on when he asked her to help stand the man up and take him home. He asks whether it would be better to let him die than to publish the photo. "In general," he writes, "it is hard to speak about morality when one is wearing long fur coats."
And he says these photographs are his civic duty. There are no photographs of the 1930's famine in Ukraine, when millions died, no photographs of Soviet losses in World War II, an entire history either expunged from the visual record or glamorized. Something inside told him he was not allowed to let another era go undocumented. Like what he did or not, it is history, it's inflammatory -- and it scorches the soul.

Boris Mikhailov:
The Insulted and the Injured
Pace/MacGill Gallery.
32 East 57th Street.
Through May 11.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boris Mikhailov's squalid world: a homeless man, left, in Kharkov, Ukraine, from the series "Case History," 1999, and bathers at a fouled beach from "Salt Lake," 1986. (pg. 35); The Mikhailov series on the homeless is dry-eyed and blunt.; A study of the homeless from "Case History," 1999, by Boris Mikhailov. (Pace/MacGill Gallery)(pg. 37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); LAKES (84%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%) PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MIKHAILOV, BORIS; GOLDBERG, VICKI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



681 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: OPINION; 
Financial Neglect of Mental Illness

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL E. STOLTZ; Michael E. Stoltz, a Smithtown resident, is executive director of Clubhouse of Suffolk, a Ronkonkoma-based psychiatric rehabilitation agency.

 BODY:
ON March 12, a Texas jury chose to disregard Andrea Yates's assertion of the role of mental illness when she took the lives of her five children.
 That same day, the authorities say, the delusions of a Long Island man -- Peter Troy -- commanded him to commit two heinous murders in a Lynbrook church. 
 We have all talked to our friends and relatives about these tragic cases. We have struggled to learn lessons from these events. 
The media help us discern and interpret the personal and social forces that could have led to the horrifying tales of Mrs. Yates and Mr. Troy. Yet the picture remains incomplete. We keep asking ourselves what appropriate steps society can take to prevent such incidents?
There are answers. And there are also practical measures employers, insurance companies and policymakers can adopt to minimize the incidence of future Yates or Troy tragedies.
We first need to embrace the fact that people do recover from mental illnesses.
America needs to start thinking about mental illness the same way we think about such medical illnesses as cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and even severe physical injuries. Just like these conditions, mental illness requires good medical care, rehabilitation, the support and encouragement of others who have recovered and home care services.
John Nash's story in "A Beautiful Mind" reinforced the message that people with mental illnesses can lead productive, satisfying lives. Others include the actors Rod Steiger, Patty Duke and Margot Kidder, the writer Art Buchwald, the songwriter James Taylor and thousands more. On balance with the entire population, people with serious mental illnesses rarely commit violence against others.
But our willingness to pay to treat mental illness falls far short of our willingness to foot the bill to treat other diseases -- or to shell out higher payments when people with mental illnesses wind up in hospital emergency rooms, jails, emergency welfare housing and courtrooms. By and large, private and public insurers bear responsibility for this lack of parity.
Say you are affected by cancer. You go to your physician, who tells you, "We have treatment and rehabilitation that is 99 percent effective for your affliction, but we can only give you 50 percent of it." That's the way it is for people with mental illness.
Why the imbalance? Because employers, insurers and policymakers do not view psychiatric disorders as they do other medical conditions. So they refuse to invest in critical services.
America pays a big price for this lack of equity. In 1999, a surgeon general's report ranked mental illness as the second most costly in respect to impact on national productivity. Mental illness ranked only behind cardiovascular disease, but ahead of cancer and H.I.V./AIDS.
Long Island's public mental health system includes all the basic elements necessary to help prevent mental-health-related tragedies and restore people to lives of recovery and productivity. But the system is dangerously underfinanced and its infrastructure is crumbling. Community mental health services are now financed at 1993 rates. The cost of living has increased significantly since that time, yet payment rates for most services that could reach out aggressively to potential Yateses and Troys have increased only 1.25 percent.
Low pay makes hiring and retaining staff members difficult. Professionals with master's degrees sometimes start at the impossibly low salary of $28,000; college graduates less than $25,000. Health care help-wanted ads dramatize the desperation of agencies looking for staff members to serve people with psychiatric disabilities; operators of these agencies privately hope for an economic downturn so that they might obtain more employees.
Mental health advocates seek a 5 percent increase in the state budget allocation, a $41 million investment. In contrast, the recent pay agreement for the state's hospital and institution-based support staff -- which excluded mental health workers -- yielded a 13 percent increase costing taxpayers $850 million.
Fortunately, a bipartisan movement in Albany is breaking free of dangerous, outmoded thinking about mental health. In the Assembly, Fred Thiele of Southampton and Harvey Weisenberg of Long Beach deserve praise for pushing their colleagues to support multiyear increases in community services and insurance parity legislation. It is now time for Long Island's state senators and Governor Pataki to step forward and follow their lead.
The jarring events of March 12 drive home a critical message. Like other medical conditions, mental illness is treatable. We will all benefit when employers, insurers and policymakers begin to view it as such. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (68%); DIABETES (66%); WRITERS (65%); SONG WRITING (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS 

PERSON: YATES, ANDREA; TROY, PETER; STOLTZ, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



682 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2354 words

HEADLINE: City Limits 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
MICHELLE CAPUTO has visited New York City a half-dozen times in her 28 years, though when she travels for fun she prefers more tranquil locales, most recently Florida, Cancun and the Bahamas. 
 But Ms. Caputo has lived her entire life in Rutherford, a 15-minute drive from Midtown Manhattan. 
 She doesn't pop into Manhattan for a night out. For her, the city's bother -- traffic, crowds, expense, parking problems -- outweighs its benefits. 
"Honestly? It's just inconvenient," said Ms. Caputo, who is a billing auditor at a Paramus telecommunications company. "You have to deal with getting there and getting back. You're surrounded by people and you can't do anything. I hate standing in line. I don't want to wait a half-hour in a station for some train. Here, I can get into the car and go where I want in a half-hour, park right in front, and not deal with a million people."
Ms. Caputo is not alone. Sure, there are tourists who travel thousands of miles and spend thousands of dollars to visit New York City. There are young people in small towns all over America for whom New York is a mecca, whose fervent dream is to move to the city to live, to work, to reinvent themselves.
Yet many suburbanites with a clear view of the Manhattan skyline remain virtual strangers to the city, rarely venturing in. For many of them, New York City was a place to be dragged to as a child, going to see the holiday spectacular at Radio City Music Hall or taking out-of-town relatives to the Empire State Building. 
Easy access to Manhattan is something people pay dearly for. The city bestows upon its suburbs -- New Jersey, Long Island, Westchester and Connecticut -- some of the highest housing prices, taxes and costs of living in the world. And indeed, most suburbanites are on familiar terms with that place known to all simply as The City. Yet there are people who do not know the Bronx from the Battery and do not care to. There are plenty of suburbanites -- sane, sociable, sophisticated -- who will look you in the eye and tell you they simply do not see what the fuss is over Manhattan. 
Dan Rattiner, editor and publisher of Dan's Papers, a weekly newspaper distributed on the East End of Long Island, moved from Greenwich Village to the island in the 1980's and did not return for 10 years.
"I decided I didn't need to go back at all, I was so happy here," Mr. Rattiner recalled. "The closest I'd get was J.F.K. Airport. I traveled all over the world but never to New York. I would fantasize that it didn't exist at all, that it was just a big cardboard skyline." 
Mr. Rattiner said he now visited the city about every three weeks, but added, "I know people, adults, who've never been out of the Hamptons, much less to New York City." 
Avoiding Manhattan was understandable in the more dismal days, when its streets were dirty and crime-ridden, when driving through a tunnel meant fending off squeegee men, when the subways were covered with graffiti and the sidewalks were full of stereotypically rude, rushing New Yorkers.
The image of the pushy New Yorker may never change, but the city has. Manhattan is much safer and more visitor-friendly now. Since Sept. 11 many now regard the city with greater sympathy. But for many of those who shun or fear it, the disaster has reinforced their aversion to New York.
Many experts say a suburbanite tendency to avoid the city may be more pervasive than ever. Partly, it is a reflection of societal shifts over recent decades. As the city's economy has decentralized, more jobs have spread to the suburbs. Many services once considered the exclusive domain of Manhattan, including fine restaurants and shopping, cultural and fine arts offerings and state-of-the-art hospitals, are now suburban staples as well.
Certainly, many suburban families have tight schedules, and Manhattan winds up getting pre-empted by a regimented lineup of soccer games, karate practice and birthday parties. But avoiding New York City seems more to do with mind-set.

Strange People, Tall Buildings
Psychologists who practice in the suburbs say fear of New York is a common condition among their patients -- fears ranging from becoming lost or trapped or mugged in the city to being surrounded and suffocated by crowds of strange people and tall buildings. Some patients have been taught by their parents to be wary of the city, and speak of New York as a terrifying foreign land, said Peter S. Kanaris, a psychologist from Smithtown on Long Island who uses various techniques, including relaxation and meditative breathing, to help patients be able to travel into Manhattan.
"When you think of the city, you think of this great diversity of people," Mr. Kanaris said, adding that a typical patient's reaction to that is: "It's a place where I'm going to encounter many types of different people, and that feels dangerous to me." 
Nina K. Thomas, a clinical psychologist practicing in Morristown, said some suburbanites might become so cloistered that "traveling to Manhattan takes on the air of a major trip, as if to a foreign country."
This is the case for Victoria Linefsky, 44, who has avoided Manhattan since childhood and has not set foot in Queens or Brooklyn in 15 years. Mrs. Linefsky, who works in a law office and a preschool, lives in Massapequa on Long Island. The city is an hour's drive in light traffic, but it is worlds away for Ms. Linefsky, who said she had "no clue" how to navigate Manhattan, or even hail a cab.
"I don't know my way around," she said. "What's Uptown? Downtown? What's a good section?" Her three children, ages 18, 14 and 9, are Long Islanders, and she has no intention of making them New Yorkers. 
"My parents never raised me very culturally," she said. "I've never been to a play in the city. I've never been to Broadway."
Beth Wilson, 57, of Amityville, said she had visited the city about 10 times in the past 10 years. Each visit has caused panic attacks, she said, a vertigo be relieved only by staring at the pavement and running "in the direction of Long Island."
"It's a claustrophobic thing," said Mrs. Wilson, a program administrator for Cablevision in Bethpage and a lifelong Long Islander. "I feel like Superman when he has the Kryptonite." 
James R. Brown, sitting at the bar at the Ninth District Veterans Club in Glenville, Conn., said of New York City: "Why would you want to go down there? To pay $6.50 for a beer?" Mr. Brown, 55, known locally as J. B., is a maintenance worker for the town of Greenwich, but is out on disability. He lives in Byram, and his last visit to Manhattan was about 20 years ago, he said, and that was for his job.
The bartender, Joseph Salvatore, 61, of Greenwich, said he had only begun visiting the city again in recent years, to take his two young daughters who are learning about Manhattan in school. Mr. Salvatore, a local cemetery caretaker, said that before that, he had not been to the city in about 15 years, "and if I wasn't taking them, I wouldn't be going down there."

The Metropolis in the Backyard
Anti-urban sentiment is not new. After all, the suburbs sprang up largely as an alternative to city life, an escape from crowding, pollution and strangers. Immigrants who came to New York through Ellis Island worked their way from gritty urban tenements to modest, grassy plots in Hicksville or New Rochelle. Many of them, and the generations they begat, have never felt the need to look back. 
"I can't tell you how many students I've asked, 'When was the last time you were in the city?' and they've said, 'When I was 5,' " said Gail Satler, a sociology professor at Hofstra University who teaches urban planning and design. Most of Ms. Satler's students have grown up on Long Island within an hour of the city. But few students were even remotely familiar with New York City, so she began planning class trips into Manhattan to introduce them to the metropolis in their backyard.
"We were talking about it like it's so far away and it's not," she said. "Unless I make them go, most of them won't." 
In March, the class visited St. Patrick's Cathedral and Times Square. "Half of them had never seen Central Park," Ms. Satler said. "Some are embarrassed and some are proud. Their attitude is: They've never been in, and they don't have to be." 
For 20 years, Mineola High School has offered its seniors a one-semester class on New York City. The curriculum covers everything from night life to architecture. Students are taken on monthly trips into the city. Paul Pereira, a social studies teacher who teaches the class, understands the suburban mind-set from firsthand experience.
"The only time I went in as a kid is when I went in on a bus for a school trip," Mr. Pereira said. "Most of these kids think it's scary and dangerous and dirty like they see in the movies, and that's why we teach the course."
His own parents were from Portugal. "They were happier sending me in my teens the 3,000 miles to see Portugal than sending me 30 minutes on the train to the city," he said. "A lot of kids pick up stereotypes about the city from their parents who were born and bred here. For them the suburbs equals a better quality of life. But culture's not out in Mineola or Massapequa. It's just lawns and shopping malls and storefronts here. There's no character.
"They can't believe how safe it is, how clean it is and how much it has to offer," he said of his student's encounter with the city. "It's not what they perceived the city to be. They come in thinking the city's just dirty skyscrapers and homeless people and newspapers blowing in the wind and people walking with their heads down.
"I get parents coming up and asking, 'Do you offer this class for adults?' Even parents who work in Manhattan, a lot of them just go in and come right out again."

The Suburb-to-Suburb Commute
Over recent decades, the activity that was once the sole province of New York City has decentralized, allowing people to settle in the suburbs and shun the city, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. 
"The suburbs have become self-contained universes," Professor Hughes said. "There are very few unique things in the city now that suburban people feel they have to access on a regular basis."
He noted, for example, that in 1950, New York City had 3.4 million jobs and the state of New Jersey had 1.7 million. But in 2000, New Jersey had 4 million jobs compared with the city's 3.7 million. The trends were similar in Long Island, Westchester and lower Connecticut. 
The proliferation of suburban office parks in the 1980's allowed many commuters to the city to work in the suburbs instead. Mr. Hughes said New York's suburbs had the third-largest amount of office space in the country, behind New York City and Chicago.
"The suburbs have really evolved into horizontal cities, replicating the urban marketplace," Professor Hughes said.
Now most people, he continued, are commuting from one suburb to another. Most people now work in the county in which they live or in an adjacent one. In the region there are now about 50 large shopping malls outside Manhattan, accounting for roughly 50 million square feet of retail space. And many New York City dwellers travel to the suburbs to shop at the malls or big-box stores like Ikea in Elizabeth and Home Depot in Yonkers.

'Everything I Need Is Here'
Some simply stay in the suburbs because of the comforts: the grass, the trees, the space, the privacy -- and the familiarity. 
Patrick Driscoll, who lives in Short Hills with his pregnant wife, Amy, and two children is co-owner of a bicycle shop in Millburn, a half-hour from Manhattan. Apart from a few business obligations, he has hardly visited the city in the last five years.
"I really don't go in any more of my own accord," Mr. Driscoll said. "The city is just not something we really think about much. I'd rather not deal with that many people. I like a slower environment, and having a million people walking around you on the sidewalk, I'd rather be sitting in the backyard in a small town, relaxing." 
Suburbanites are used to the privacy of their cars, essential in suburbia but often an impediment to navigating Manhattan, where there are more-aggressive drivers and fewer parking spaces. But mass transit looms large as an obstacle to those who do not go regularly to the city. 
Taking the trains can be a deterrent, especially negotiating transfers. "It's not just the people you don't know," Mr. Driscoll said. "It's a whole system."
Burta E. Smith, 70, a retired accountant, lives in Fairfield, Conn., a 75-minute train ride to Grand Central Terminal. She is active (she baby-sits full time) and adventurous (last summer, she drove her car to Texas), but she has visited Manhattan about four times since she moved to the East Coast in 1991 from the Los Angeles area.
Once, she was "bribed" to visit the city with tickets to "Cats," she said, and the other times she agreed to accompany sightseeing relatives.
"I would never go into the city on my own, either by car or train," she said. "I'm really not a city girl. It's nothing personal. I just like my peace and quiet. I have pretty much everything I need here."
Those who do go into the city regularly, just because they want to, not because they work there, are sometimes met with surprise. Geoff Thompson of Briarcliff Manor is a co-owner of a public relations firm whose clients are almost exclusively other Westchester businesses.
Mr. Thompson said he traveled regularly into Manhattan to attend Rangers games, Broadway shows and films. It never fails to amaze the neighbors, he said. 
"When I tell them we went into the city, they say, 'Jeez, you did? We haven't gone in for years,' " he said. "I'm always astounded. There are many people who would drive to Cape Cod more readily than drive into the city and see a film. 
"You can see the Manhattan skyline from here, but for many people here, it might as well be the Land of Oz," he said. "It's funny, because so many people in Westchester originally came from New York City, and they talk about it like they moved to Vermont, instead of just Katonah."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The city is just not something we really think about much," said Patrick Driscoll, at home in Short Hills, left, with his wife, Amy, and daughters Kelly and Kerri. Geoff and Liz Thompson of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., do make it regularly to Manhattan for shows and Rangers games. "There are many people who would drive to Cape Cod more readily than drive into the city and see a film," he said.; Paul Pereira, right, with Dave Viegas, teaches a high school class on New York City, with field trips. Beth Wilson, above, of Long Island, says the city gives her panic attacks. (Phil Marino for The New York Times; Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) (pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (71%); REAL ESTATE (66%); PUBLISHING (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); HOME PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



683 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: REPORT ON MANHATTAN CONDOS; 
Prices Increase, But Sales Drop

 BODY:
Manhattan condominium prices during the last quarter of 2001 shrugged off any post-Sept. 11 jitters that might have been expected, with median prices in every category exceeding $550 a square foot, the Real Estate Board of New York reported. But sales volume slipped. 
"Manhattan condominiums continued to appreciate despite a historic trauma to our city and the nation, as well as a recession," said Deborah B. Beck, the executive vice president of the real estate board. 
 In the prewar category, condominiums sold for a median price of $601 a square foot in the fourth quarter, 15 percent higher than the $522 median in the fourth quarter of 2000. Apartments of 650 square feet or less in the prewar category gained the most, increasing by 16 percent to $587 a square foot from $507 the year before. 
 In the postwar category, the median price per square foot jumped from $556 to $593. Apartments of 650 square feet or less again led the way, rising by 14 percent, from $506 from $574. In 2000, Ms. Beck said, a typical one-bedroom postwar condo in the 725-square-foot category would have sold for $356,000, "while that same unit in 2001 sold for $404,000." That was $491 a square foot in 2000 and $557 a square foot in 2001.
Overall sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 slipped to 1,012, compared with 1,167 transactions in the fourth quarter of 2000, a 13.3 percent drop. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%) HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: REAL ESTATE BOARD OF NEW YORK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



684 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2415 words

HEADLINE: City Limits 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
MICHELLE CAPUTO, 28, has visited New York City a half-dozen times in her life. On its face, this would hardly seem unusual. She prefers to take getaway vacations to more tranquil locales, most recently to Florida, Cancun and the Bahamas. 
 But Ms. Caputo has lived her entire life in Rutherford, N.J., a 15-minute drive into Midtown Manhattan. 
 She doesn't even pop into Manhattan for a night out. For her, the city's bother -- traffic, crowds, expense, parking problems -- outweigh its benefits. 
"Honestly? It's just inconvenient," said Ms. Caputo, who is a billing auditor at a Paramus telecommunications company. "You have to deal with getting there and getting back. You're surrounded by people and you can't do anything. I hate standing in line. I don't want to wait a half-hour in a station for some train. Here, I can get into the car and go where I want in a half-hour, park right in front, and not deal with a million people."
Ms. Caputo is not alone. Sure, there are tourists who travel thousands of miles and spend thousands of dollars to visit New York City. There are young people in small towns all over America for whom New York is a mecca, whose fervent dream is to move to the city to live, to work, to reinvent themselves. Yet many suburbanites within clear view of the Manhattan skyline remain virtual strangers to the city, rarely venturing in. For many of them, visiting New York City was something you did as a child, going to see the Christmas show at Radio City Music Hall or taking out-of-town relatives to the Empire State Building. 
Easy access to Manhattan is something people pay dearly for. The city bestows upon its suburbs -- north in Westchester and Connecticut, east on Long Island, and north, west and south in New Jersey -- some of the highest housing prices, taxes and costs of living in the world. And indeed, most suburbanites are on familiar terms with that place known to all simply as the City. Yet there are people who do not know the Bronx from the Battery and do not care to. There are plenty of suburbanites, sane, sociable, sophisticated, who will look you in the eye and tell you they simply do not see what the fuss is over Manhattan. 
Burta E. Smith, 70, a retired accountant, lives in Fairfield, a 75-minute train ride to Grand Central Terminal. She is active (she baby-sits full time) and adventurous (last summer, she drove her car to Texas), but she has visited Manhattan only about four times since she moved to the East Coast in 1991 from the Los Angeles area.
Once, she was "bribed" to visit the city with tickets to "Cats," she said, and the other times she agreed to accompany sightseeing relatives.
"I would never go into the city on my own, either by car or train," she said. "I'm really not a city girl. It's nothing personal. I just like my peace and quiet. I have pretty much everything I need here."
Avoiding Manhattan was understandable during the city's more dismal days, when its streets were dirty and crime-ridden, when going through a tunnel meant fending off squeegee men, when the subway was scrawled with graffiti, and the sidewalks were full of stereotypically rude, rushing New Yorkers.
The image of the pushy New Yorker may never change, but the city has. Manhattan is much safer and visitor-friendly now. Since Sept. 11, many now regard the city with greater sympathy. But for many of those who once shunned or feared it, the disaster has reinforced their aversions to New York.
Many experts say a suburbanite tendency to avoid the city may be more pervasive than ever. Partly, it is a reflection of societal shifts over recent decades. As the city's economy has decentralized, more jobs have spread to the suburbs. It is no longer so necessary to commute to the city. Many services, once considered the exclusive domain of Manhattan, including fine restaurants and shopping, cultural and fine arts offerings and state of the art hospitals, are now suburban staples as well.
But avoiding New York City seems to have more to do with mindset. Those who shun the city offer various reasons: Some don't want to go; some don't need to; others are afraid to. Some lack the time, others the money. Some have been unnerved by bad city experiences or the terrorist attacks. Certainly, many suburban families have tight schedules, and Manhattan winds up getting pre-empted by a regimented lineup of children's soccer games, karate practice and birthday parties.

Strange People, Tall Buildings
Psychologists who practice in the suburbs say fear of New York is a common condition among their patients. Fears range from becoming lost or trapped or mugged in the city to being surrounded and suffocated by crowds of strange people and tall buildings. Some patients have been taught by their parents to be wary of the city, and speak of New York as a terrifying foreign land, said Peter S. Kanaris, a Smithtown, N.Y., psychologist who uses various techniques, including relaxation and meditative breathing, to get patients to be able to travel into Manhattan. "When you think of the city, you think of this great diversity of people," Mr. Kanaris said, adding that a typical patient's reaction to that is: "It's a place where I'm going to encounter many types of different people and that feels dangerous to me." 
Beth Wilson, 57, of Amityville, N.Y., said she has visited the city about 10 times in the past 10 years. Each visit has caused panic attacks, she said, a vertigo that can be relieved only by staring down at the pavement and running "in the direction of Long Island."
"It's a claustrophobic thing," said Mrs. Wilson, a program administrator for Cablevision in Bethpage and a lifelong Long Islander. "I feel like Superman when he has the Kryptonite." 
Nina K. Thomas, a clinical psychologist who practices in Morristown, N.J., said that some suburbanites may become so cloistered that "traveling to Manhattan takes on the air of a major trip, as if to a foreign country."
This is the case for Victoria Linefsky, 44, who has basically avoided New York City since childhood and has not set foot in Queens or Brooklyn in 15 years. Mrs. Linefsky, who works part time both in a law office and a preschool, lives in Massapequa, just west of Amityville. The city is an hour's drive to Manhattan in light traffic, but it is worlds away for Ms. Linefsky, who said she has "no clue" how to navigate Manhattan, or even hail a cab. "I don't know my way around," she said. "What's uptown? Downtown? What's a good section?" Her three children, ages 18, 14 and 9, are Long Islanders, and she has no intention of making them New Yorkers. 
"My parents never raised me very culturally," she said. "I've never been to a play in the city. I've never been to Broadway."
James R. Brown, sitting at the bar at the Ninth District Veterans Club in the Glenville section of Greenwich, said of New York City: "Why would you want to go down there? To pay $6.50 for a beer?" Mr. Brown, 55, known locally as J. B., is a maintenance worker for the town of Greenwich, but is out on disability. He lives in Byram and his last visit to Manhattan occurred about 20 years ago, he said, and that was for his job.
The bartender, Joseph Salvatore, 61, of Greenwich, said he has only begun visiting the city again in recent years, to take his two young daughters who are learning about Manhattan in school. Mr. Salvatore, a local cemetery caretaker, said before that, he had not been to the city in about 15 years, "and if I wasn't taking them, I wouldn't be going down there." 

The Metropolis in the Backyard
Anti-urban sentiment is not new. After all, the suburbs sprang up largely as an alternative to city life, an escape from crowding, pollution and strangers. Immigrants who came to New York through Ellis Island worked their way from gritty urban tenements to modest, grassy plots in Levittown or New Rochelle. Many of them, and the generations they begot, have never felt the need to look back. 
"I can't tell you how many students I've asked, 'When was the last time you were in the city?' and they've said, 'When I was 5,' " said Gail Satler, a sociology professor at Hofstra University who teaches urban planning and design. Most of Ms. Satler's students have grown up on Long Island within an hour of the city. But few students were even remotely familiar with New York City, so she began planning class trips into Manhattan to introduce them to the metropolis in their backyard. 
"We were talking about it like it's so far away and it's not," she said. "Unless I make them go, most of them won't." 
In March, the class visited St. Patrick's Cathedral and Times Square. "Half of them had never seen Central Park," Ms. Satler said. "Some are embarrassed and some are proud. Their attitude is: They've never been in, and they don't have to be."
For 20 years, Mineola High School in Nassau County, has offered its senior-year students a one-semester class on New York City. The curriculum covers everything from night life to architecture. Students are taken on monthly trips into the city. Paul Pereira, a social studies teacher who teaches the class, understands the suburban mindset from firsthand experience. "The only time I went in as a kid is when I went in on a bus for a school trip," he said. "Most of these kids think it's scary and dangerous and dirty like they see in the movies, and that's why we teach the course."
His own parents were from Portugal. "They were happier sending me in my teens the 3,000 miles to see Portugal than sending me 30 minutes on the train to the city," Mr. Pereira said."A lot of kids pick up stereotypes about the city from their parents who were born and bred here. For them the suburbs equal a better quality of life. But culture's not out in Mineola or Massapequa. It's just lawns and shopping malls and storefronts here. There's no character.
"I get parents coming up and asking, 'Do you offer this class for adults?' Even parents who work in Manhattan, a lot of them just go in and come right out again."

The Suburb to Suburb Commute
Over recent decades, the activity that was once the sole province of New York City has decentralized, allowing people to settle in the suburbs and shun the city, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. 
"The suburbs have become self-contained universes," he said. "There are very few unique things in the city now that suburban people feel they have to access on a regular basis." 
Professor Hughes noted, for example, that in 1950, New York City had 3.4 million jobs, and the state of New Jersey had 1.7 million. But in 2000, New Jersey had 4 million jobs compared to the city's 3.7 million. The trends were similar in Long Island, Westchester and lower Connecticut. 
The proliferation of suburban office parks in the 1980's allowed many commuters to the city to work in the suburbs instead. Mr. Hughes said that the network of office parks in New York's suburbs, including north-central New Jersey; Fairfield County, especially in Stamford, in Connecticut; the White Plains area in Westchester, and Route 110 on Long Island has the third largest amount of office space in the country, behind New York City and Chicago.
"The suburbs have really evolved into horizontal cities, replicating the urban market place," Professor Hughes said.
Now most people, he continued, are commuting from one suburb to another. Most people now work in the county in which they live or in an adjacent one. There are now about 50 large regional malls outside Manhattan, accounting for roughly 50 million square feet of retail space. And some New York City dwellers even travel to the suburbs to shop at big box stores like Ikea in Elizabeth, N.J., and Home Depot in Yonkers. 

'Everything I Need Is Here'
 Some simply stay in the suburbs because of the comforts: the grass, the trees, the space, the privacy -- and the familiarity. 
Patrick Driscoll lives in Millburn, N.J., a half-hour drive from Manhattan. Mr. Driscoll co-owns a bicycle shop in Millburn. His wife is pregnant with their third child. Apart from a few business obligations, he has hardly visited the city in the last five years. "I really don't go in any more of my own accord," he said. "The city is just not something we really think about much. I'd rather not deal with that many people. I like a slower environment and having a million people waking around you on the sidewalk, I'd rather be sitting in the backyard in a small town, relaxing." 
Taking the trains can be a deterrent, especially negotiating transfers. "It's not just the people you don't know," he said. "It's a whole system you don't know." 
Suburbanites are used to the privacy of their cars, essential in suburbia but often an impediment to navigating Manhattan, where there are more aggressive drivers and fewer parking spaces. 
Dan Rattiner, editor and publisher of Dan's Papers, a free weekly newspaper distributed on eastern Long Island and in parts of Manhattan, moved from Greenwich Village to eastern Long Island in the early 1980's and did not return to the city for 10 years. 
"I decided I didn't need to go back at all, I was so happy here," Mr. Rattiner recalled. "The closest I'd get was J.F.K. Airport. I traveled all over the world but never to New York. I would fantasize that it didn't exist at all, that it was just a big, cardboard skyline." 
Mr. Rattiner said he now visits the city about every three weeks, but added, "I know people, adults, who've never been out of the Hamptons, much less to New York City." 
Those who do go into the city regularly, just because they want to, not because they work there, are sometimes met with surprise. Geoff Thompson of Briarcliff Manor in Westchester co-owns a public relations firm there whose clients are almost exclusively Westchester businesses. 
Mr. Thompson said he travels regularly into Manhattan to attend New York Rangers games, Broadway shows and films. It never fails to amaze the neighbors, he said. "When I tell them we went into the city, they say, 'Jeez, you did? We haven't gone in for years,' " he said. "I'm always astounded. There are many people who would drive to Cape Cod more readily than drive into the city and see a film. 
"You can see the Manhattan skyline from here, but for many people here, it might as well be the Land of Oz," he said. "It's funny, because so many people in Westchester originally came from New York City, and they talk about it like they moved to Vermont, instead of just Katonah."

GRAPHIC: Photos: James R. Brown, left, of Greenwich, sitting at the bar at the Ninth District Veterans Club, hasn't been to Manhattan in 20 years. "Why would you want to go down there? To pay $6.50 for a beer?" Nancy Pryor, center, of Rye, N.Y., said she and her family occasionally visit the city. "It's not that we don't want to go in more, but we don't really have the time," she said. "We have four kids and we're involved in our community." Beth Wilson of Amityville, N.Y., bottom, said she often has panic attacks when she goes to the city. "I feel like Superman when he has the kryptonite," she said. (Illustration by Art Glazer; Art Glazer for The New York Times; Suzy Allman for The New York times; Phil Marino for The New York Times; Debbi Morello for The New York Times) (pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); TRAINS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); COST OF LIVING (70%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (68%); REAL ESTATE (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); HOME PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



685 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Out of Work, but Not Rushing to Return

BYLINE:  By MARCI ALBOHER NUSBAUM 

 BODY:
IN the spring of 2000, Ned Mansour resigned as president of Mattel after Jill E. Barad, the chief executive, was forced out. Unemployed for the first time in his 27-year corporate career, Mr. Mansour, then 51, started meeting with headhunters.
 Within a month, he changed course after learning that a friend and former colleague from Mattel, Joseph McKay, had terminal colon cancer. In fact, Mr. Mansour was the first person Mr. McKay told about his illness. "He was a very private guy," Mr. Mansour said. For six months, he put his job search aside to care for his dying friend. 
 As the economy has sputtered over the past couple of years, many senior managers have found themselves in Mr. Mansour's shoes, out of work for the first time. Most have rushed to find another job, but a surprising number have decided to use the reprieve to take stock of their lives. And, they say, they have come to appreciate the chance to spend more time with their families, return to neglected hobbies and rejuvenate their lives.
Many, of course, have the cash reserves to finance the time off, and most are optimistic about their chances of returning to high perches in business. Even so, a few have decided to abandon the corporate world for another vocation.
"There is a theme here," said Steven Lesser, a consultant in New York for Right Management Consultants. "These people are very sophisticated and have always made an impact. Now some are choosing to look at life differently and make an impact in different areas."
Mr. Mansour's support for his friend ranged from handling legal affairs to picking up groceries and even administering morphine when the pain became unbearable. "I was surprised by how attached and dedicated I became to Joe," he said.
Though Mr. Mansour had little trouble switching gears, experts say many hard-driving executives need prodding to slow their pace and to reconnect with other parts of their lives. Alexandra Duran, a career coach and the principal and founder of Career Transitioning, says that when unemployed clients panic, she encourages them to think hard about the future and not to latch onto the first opportunity that comes along. Some clients even take out loans or second mortgages to finance these periods of reflection. "I help them come to terms with the fact that reassessing one's life and career is, in fact, productive," she said.
Even people with no desire to move in a new direction often find that a healthy attitude is crucial to dealing with joblessness.
Consider Kenneth Brause, 37, whose job as head of investor relations at the American General Corporation was eliminated in January when his company merged with the American International Group.
Mr. Brause feels no shame about being out of work. He talks about his unemployed status with acquaintances, many of whom are in the same boat, and he believes that his openness will improve his chances of finding a new position.
He is enjoying the interruption of a 15-year career in which he often canceled vacations and had little time with his family. He treasures doing things he could not do when he had a rigid work schedule, like taking his son to school or his daughter to a play date. "I realize that I can't spend every hour of the day looking for work," he said.
Being out of work has had another benefit for him and his wife, he said. The extra time together as a family "has been good for the healing process," he said, after his wife's stepmother was killed in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
SOMETIMES, losing a job reignites old passions. For nearly five years, Brett Kopelan, 33, was working 75-hour weeks. Then, last year, he was laid off as director of business development at beMany.com, a failed Internet company.
Knowing his job was vulnerable, he had started a job search even before the layoff. Soon, he received several offers for jobs in marketing and business development. 
It was then that he realized he didn't want to keep working at the same pace. "I wanted to take some 'me time,' " he said, "to redevelop some skills I used to have, some things I felt I'd lost over the years."
For the next 15 months, Mr. Kopelan lived on savings and spent time advising a nonprofit group and pursuing hobbies he had long ignored. He played his guitar regularly, set up a digital recording studio in his apartment, returned to his interest in photography and got a dog.
Recently, Mr. Kopelan planned his next career move. In May, he will launch a recruiting firm that will specialize in health sciences. Though he knows that running his own business may mean even greater pressure than working for someone else, he says he is committed to retaining his quality of life. "I need to remember that work isn't life," he said. "It's only a way to have one."
Mr. Mansour, the former Mattel executive, has no plans to return to corporate life. After his friend died, he began writing a short story inspired by his experience of caring for him. It became a novel, "Divided Roads," about a jaded investment banker who has a spiritual awakening when he befriends a boy with a life-threatening illness. Mr. Mansour financed the book's publishing and says he will give the proceeds to charity.
"Had I never left Mattel, I would not have made the same choice," he said. "Even though I could have visited him in the evenings and mornings, I just wouldn't have." He was so focused on work, he said, that "everything else, including family and friends, took second place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ned Mansour at home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. For six months after leaving Mattel, he cared for a former colleague who was dying. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SECOND MORTGAGES (60%); COLORECTAL CANCER (56%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: AMERICAN GENERAL CORP (60%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MATTEL INC 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: MANSOUR, NED; NUSBAUM, MARCI ALBOHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



686 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2376 words

HEADLINE: City Limits 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
MICHELLE CAPUTO, 28, has visited New York City a half-dozen times in her life. When she travels for fun she prefers more tranquil locales, most recently Florida, Cancun and the Bahamas. 
 But Ms. Caputo is not from Dallas or Des Moines. She has lived her entire life in Rutherford, N.J., a 15-minute drive from Midtown Manhattan. 
 She doesn't pop into Manhattan for a night out. For her, the city's bother -- traffic, crowds, expense, parking problems -- outweighs its benefits. 
"Honestly? It's just inconvenient," said Ms. Caputo, who is a billing auditor at a Paramus telecommunications company. "You have to deal with getting there and getting back. You're surrounded by people and you can't do anything. I hate standing in line. I don't want to wait a half-hour in a station for some train. Here, I can get into the car and go where I want in a half-hour, park right in front, and not deal with a million people."
Ms. Caputo is not alone. Sure, there are tourists who travel thousands of miles and spend thousands of dollars to visit New York City. There are young people in small towns all over America for whom New York is a mecca, whose fervent dream is to move to the city to live, to work, to reinvent themselves. Yet many suburbanites with a clear view of the Manhattan skyline remain virtual strangers to the city, rarely venturing in. For many of them, New York City was a place to be dragged to as a child, going to see the holiday spectacular at Radio City Music Hall or taking out-of-town relatives to the Empire State Building.
Easy access to Manhattan is something people pay dearly for. The city bestows upon its suburbs -- Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey -- some of the highest housing prices, taxes and costs of living in the world. And indeed, most suburbanites are on familiar terms with that place known to all simply as the City. Yet there are people who do not know the Bronx from the Battery and do not care to. There are plenty of suburbanites, sane, sociable, sophisticated, who will look you in the eye and tell you they simply do not see what the fuss is over Manhattan. 
Dan Rattiner, editor and publisher of Dan's Papers, a weekly newspaper distributed on the East End, moved from Greenwich Village to East Hampton in the early 1980's and did not return to the city for 10 years.
"I decided I didn't need to go back at all, I was so happy here," Mr. Rattiner recalled. "The closest I'd get was J.F.K. Airport. I traveled all over the world but never to New York. I would fantasize that it didn't exist at all, that it was just a big cardboard skyline." 
Mr. Rattiner said he now visits the city about every three weeks, but added, "I know people, adults, who've never been out of the Hamptons, much less to New York City." 
Avoiding Manhattan was understandable during the city's more dismal days, when its streets were dirty and crime-ridden, when driving through a tunnel meant fending off squeegee men, when the subway was covered with graffiti and the sidewalks were full of stereotypically rude, rushing New Yorkers.
The image of the pushy New Yorker may never change, but the city has. Manhattan is much safer and visitor-friendly now. Since Sept. 11 many now regard the city with greater sympathy. But for many of those who shun or fear it, the disaster has reinforced their aversion to New York.
Many experts say a suburbanite tendency to avoid the city may be more pervasive than ever. Partly, it is a reflection of societal shifts over recent decades. As the city's economy has decentralized, more jobs have spread to the suburbs. It is no longer so necessary to commute to the city. Many services once considered the exclusive domain of Manhattan, including fine restaurants and shopping, cultural and fine arts offerings and state-of-the-art hospitals, are now suburban staples as well.
Certainly, many suburban families have tight schedules, and Manhattan winds up getting pre-empted by a regimented lineup of children's soccer games, karate practice and birthday parties. But avoiding New York City seems to have more to do with mindset.

Strangers and Tall Buildings
Psychologists who practice in the suburbs say fear of New York is a common condition among their patients. Fears range from becoming lost or trapped or mugged in the city to being surrounded and suffocated by crowds of strange people and tall buildings. Some patients have been taught by their parents to be wary of the city, and speak of New York as a terrifying foreign land, said Peter S. Kanaris, a Smithtown psychologist who uses various techniques, including relaxation and meditative breathing, to get patients to be able to travel into Manhattan. "When you think of the city, you think of this great diversity of people," Mr. Kanaris said, adding that a typical patient's reaction to that is: "It's a place where I'm going to encounter many types of different people and that feels dangerous to me." 
Beth Wilson, 57, of Amityville, said she has visited the city about 10 times in the past 10 years. Each visit has caused panic attacks, she said, a vertigo that can be relieved only by staring down at the pavement and running "in the direction of Long Island."
"It's a claustrophobic thing," said Mrs. Wilson, a program administrator for Cablevision in Bethpage and a lifelong Long Islander. "I feel like Superman when he has the Kryptonite."
Nina K. Thomas, a clinical psychologist who practices in Morristown, N.J., said some suburbanites may become so cloistered that "traveling to Manhattan takes on the air of a major trip, as if to a foreign country."
This is the case for Victoria Linefsky, 44, who has basically avoided Manhattan since childhood and has not set foot in Queens or Brooklyn in 15 years. Mrs. Linefsky, who works part time both in a law office and a preschool, lives in Massapequa. The city is an hour's drive to Manhattan in light traffic, but it is worlds away for Ms. Linefsky, who said she has "no clue" how to navigate Manhattan, or even hail a cab.
"I don't know my way around," she said. "What's Uptown? Downtown? What's a good section?" Her three children, ages 18, 14 and 9, are Long Islanders, and she has no intention of making them New Yorkers. 
"My parents never raised me very culturally," she said. "I've never been to a play in the city. I've never been to Broadway."
James R. Brown, sitting at the bar at the Ninth District Veterans Club in Glenville, Conn., said of New York City: "Why would you want to go down there? To pay $6.50 for a beer?" Mr. Brown, 55, known locally as J. B., is a maintenance worker for the town of Greenwich, but is out on disability. He lives in Byram, and his last visit to Manhattan was about 20 years ago, he said, and that was for his job.
The bartender, Joseph Salvatore, 61, of Greenwich, said he has only begun visiting the city again in recent years, to take his two young daughters who are learning about Manhattan in school. Mr. Salvatore, a local cemetery caretaker, said before that, he had not been to the city in about 15 years, "and if I wasn't taking them, I wouldn't be going down there."

The Backyard Metropolis
Anti-urban sentiment is not new. After all, the suburbs sprang up largely as an alternative to city life, an escape from crowding, pollution and strangers. Immigrants who came to New York through Ellis Island worked their way from gritty urban tenements to modest, grassy plots in Hicksville or New Rochelle. Many of them, and the generations they begat, have never felt the need to look back.
"I can't tell you how many students I've asked, 'When was the last time you were in the city?' and they've said, 'When I was 5,' " said Gail Satler, a sociology professor at Hofstra University who teaches urban planning and design. Most of Ms. Satler's students have grown up on Long Island within an hour of the city. But few students were even remotely familiar with New York City, so she began planning class trips into Manhattan to introduce them to the metropolis in their backyard.
"We were talking about it like it's so far away and it's not," she said. "Unless I make them go, most of them won't."
In March, the class visited St. Patrick's Cathedral and Times Square. "Half of them had never seen Central Park," Ms. Satler said. "Some are embarrassed and some are proud. Their attitude is: They've never been in, and they don't have to be."
For 20 years, Mineola High School has offered its seniors a one-semester class on New York City. The curriculum covers everything from night life to architecture. Students are taken on monthly trips into the city. Paul Pereira, a social studies teacher who teaches the class, understands the suburban mindset from first-hand experience. "The only time I went in as a kid is when I went in on a bus for a school trip," he said. "Most of these kids think it's scary and dangerous and dirty like they see in the movies, and that's why we teach the course."
His own parents were from Portugal. "They were happier sending me in my teens the 3,000 miles to see Portugal than sending me 30 minutes on the train to the city," Mr. Pereira said. "A lot of kids pick up stereotypes about the city from their parents who were born and bred here. For them the suburbs equals a better quality of life. But culture's not out in Mineola or Massapequa. It's just lawns and shopping malls and storefronts here. There's no character.
"They can't believe how safe it is, how clean it is and how much it has to offer," he said of his student's encounter with the city. "It's not what they perceived the city to be. They come in thinking the city's just dirty skyscrapers and homeless people and newspapers blowing in the wind and people walking with their heads down.
"I get parents coming up and asking, 'Do you offer this class for adults?' Even parents who work in Manhattan, a lot of them just go in and come right out again."

The Burb-to-Burb Commute
Over recent decades, the activity that was once the sole province of New York City has decentralized, allowing people to settle in the suburbs and shun the city, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. 
"The suburbs have become self-contained universes," he said. "There are very few unique things in the city now that suburban people feel they have to access on a regular basis."
Professor Hughes noted, for example, that in 1950, New York City had 3.4 million jobs and the state of New Jersey had 1.7 million. But in 2000, New Jersey had 4 million jobs compared to the city's 3.7 million. The trends were similar in Long Island, Westchester and lower Connecticut. 
The proliferation of suburban office parks in the 1980's allowed many commuters to the city to work in the suburbs instead. Mr. Hughes said New York's suburbs have the third largest amount of office space in the country, behind New York City and Chicago.
"The suburbs have really evolved into horizontal cities, replicating the urban marketplace," Professor Hughes said.
Now most people, he continued, are commuting from one suburb to another. Most people now work in the county in which they live or in an adjacent one. In the region there are now about 50 large shopping malls outside Manhattan, accounting for roughly 50 million square feet of retail space. And many New York City dwellers travel to the suburbs to shop at the malls or big-box stores like Ikea in Elizabeth and Home Depot in Yonkers.

'Everything I Need Is Here'
Some simply stay in the suburbs because of the comforts: the grass, the trees, the space, the privacy -- and the familiarity.
Patrick Driscoll lives in Millburn, N.J., a half-hour drive from Manhattan. Mr. Driscoll co-owns a bicycle shop in Millburn. His wife is pregnant with their third child. Apart from a few business obligations, he has hardly visited the city in the last five years.
"I really don't go in anymore of my own accord," he said. "The city is just not something we really think about much. I'd rather not deal with that many people. I like a slower environment, and having a million people walking around you on the sidewalk, I'd rather be sitting in the backyard in a small town, relaxing."
Suburbanites are used to the privacy of their cars, essential in suburbia but often an impediment to navigating Manhattan, where there are more aggressive drivers and fewer parking spaces. But mass transit looms large as an obstacle to those who don't go regularly to the city. 
Taking the trains can be a deterrent, especially negotiating transfers. "It's not just the people you don't know," Mr. Driscoll said. "It's a whole system you don't know."
Burta E. Smith, 70, a retired accountant, lives in Fairfield, Conn., a 75-minute train ride to Grand Central Terminal. She is active (she baby-sits full time) and adventurous (last summer, she drove her car to Texas), but she has visited Manhattan only about four times since she moved to the East Coast in 1991 from the Los Angeles area.
Once, she was "bribed" to visit the city with tickets to "Cats," she said, and the other times she agreed to accompany sightseeing relatives.
"I would never go into the city on my own, either by car or train," she said. "I'm really not a city girl. It's nothing personal. I just like my peace and quiet. I have pretty much everything I need here."
Those who do go into the city regularly, just because they want to, not because they work there, are sometimes met with surprise. Geoff Thompson of Briarcliff Manor co-owns a public relations firm whose clients are almost exclusively other Westchester businesses.
Mr. Thompson said he travels regularly into Manhattan to attend New York Rangers games, Broadway shows and films. It never fails to amaze the neighbors, he said.
"When I tell them we went into the city, they say, 'Jeez, you did? We haven't gone in for years,' " he said. "I'm always astounded. There are many people who would drive to Cape Cod more readily than drive into the city and see a film.
"You can see the Manhattan skyline from here, but for many people here, it might as well be the Land of Oz," he said. "It's funny, because so many people in Westchester originally came from New York City, and they talk about it like they moved to Vermont, instead of just Katonah." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: James R. Brown of Byram, Conn., says he visited Manhattan about 20 years ago and sees no reason for going back to where beer costs $6.50. (Debbi Morello for The New York Times); Beth Wilson, above, of Amityville says she has visited New York City about 10 times in the past decade. Dave Viegas, left, and Paul Pereira are Mineola High School teachers. Mr. Pereira takes students to the city on school trips. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (70%); REAL ESTATE (65%); PUBLISHING (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); HOME PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



687 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: IN THE REGION / CONNECTICUT; 
College to Move Into Historic G. Fox Site in Hartford

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
A HARTFORD department store, G. Fox, designed by Cass Gilbert and built in 1917, has been rescued from years of abandonment by a partnership of the state-owned Connecticut Community College System and Anthony Autorino, a private developer. 
 When renovations are completed, Capital Community College, the Hartford branch of the system, will occupy 304,000 square feet of the 11-story building, and 960 Main Street, Mr. Autorino's company, will develop 421,000 square feet as a separate office, retail and restaurant complex. Another 125,000 square feet in the building is occupied by basement, utility and management space. 
 It has been undergoing reconstruction for two years at an estimated cost of $121.5 million. The state provided $56.5 million through the issuance of general obligation bonds; the developer is spending $45 million; and about $20 million is to be contributed by the state and the two-year college's fund for new equipment and furnishings. 
Capital Community College is characterized by its president, Ira Rubenzahl, as "primarily a college for working adults." He added, "The average age is 31, but we have 18- and 19-year-olds, some of whom will transfer to four-year institutions." Its student population -- 3,100 credit-earning students and an additional 2,000 noncredit students -- is expected to increase in the new site. "It is being built for a 20 percent increase in enrollment," Dr. Rubenzahl said. 
When the building opens on Sept. 1, it will be the first major project to be completed in Gov. John G. Rowland's program to revive the downtown of Connecticut's capital city, decimated over the years by the flight of residents and businesses to the suburbs. Other major efforts include Adriaen's Landing, a massive development where site work has begun for a convention center, hotel, housing, retail shops and parking; an upgrade of the Civic Center and Riverfront Park; and construction of parking garages and downtown housing.
In its heyday -- from the end of World War I through the mid-1960's -- G. Fox was one of the six largest department stores in the country and was known for its twin marquees over two Main Street entrances. The college will use one entrance, while the offices will be accessed through the other, separated by a wall. Each entrance opens onto its own 45-foot-wide-by-135-foot-long lobby lined with shops. "The message is that everybody walks through the retail areas," said Mr. Autorino, who expects a positive response from "retail-starved Hartford." 
While the building's physical condition deteriorated in recent years, a treasury of Art Deco embellishments designed by Taussig-Flesch Associates of New York during an interior renovation in 1937 have been remarkably well preserved. The original marble on walls and columns and the gray-veined pink marble floors are being restored, along with banks of three to five elevators with burnished steel doors surrounded with brass-inlaid nickel decorations set in marble. Staircases leading to a mezzanine encircling the arcade have steel, nickel and brass railings fashioned in Art Deco patterns resembling those in soigne Hollywood movie sets of the 30's.
According to Susan Chandler of the Connecticut Historical Commission, "there are not many expressions of Art Deco in Connecticut; New York was a mecca for it," but Connecticut distanced itself from urban styles. Among the rare and daring examples for their time are the interior of the Bushnell, the state's prestigious auditorium; the interior and exterior of the Polish National Home, both built in Hartford in 1930, and the Warner Theater in Torrington, now being restored. 
The most spectacular element in the college renovation is the replacement of a section of the roof with a 22-foot-wide-by-58-foot-long peaked skylight. Directly below it, open space was created by cutting away 22-by-58-foot sections of Floors 8 through 11. Daylight now floods the seventh floor Info Cafe and media center, where students will be able to have lunch while reading their e-mail at computer-equipped tables. "It took two days to drop each of the floors down one level," said the project superintendent, Dan Smith. The process produced some of the 15 million pounds of debris generated by the renovation. 
To get even more light into the building, 95 windows, 6 feet wide by 10 feet high, that had been painted over -- a practice in many department stores, where windows are masked to focus attention on merchandise -- were removed and restored. 
Most daunting, said James McManus, one of the architects whose initials form the name of S/L/A/M Collaborative of Glastonbury, "was fitting 38 classrooms; 48 computer, math, science and health labs; music and art studios; and a 16,000-square-foot library into the college space." Rooms had to be created in the wide-open floors that distinguish department store architecture. Supporting columns were worked around and those that could be removed were, along with 24 space-consuming escalators. 
An auditorium with a 350-seat capacity, marred by a previous tenant with a lowered ceiling, several portable toilets and partitions, is being restored, and a day care center and an outdoor fenced playground on a second-floor deck to accommodate more than 30 children is being installed. It will double as a training center for child-care courses in the curriculum. 
Jeter, Cook & Jepson Architects Inc. designed the office and retail space for Mr. Autorino, with Siemens Building Technology handling the mechanical, electrical and plumbing elements. While work continues, Mr. Autorino has secured new 10-year leases with two existing tenants: the Hartford Board of Education, which has two floors, and AT&T, with three floors. He has negotiated 10-year leases with a number of new tenants, including a jeweler, a computer store and companies taking space in a food court. "We are 71 percent leased," he said. Office rentals range from $19.50 to $30 a square foot annually; retail rents are $25 to $30 a square foot. 
THE store originated when Gerson Fox, a German immigrant, established a small enterprise on the site in 1845. His son Moses built the existing store after the original was destroyed by fire, and Moses' daughter Beatrice Fox Auerbach took over as president from 1938 to 1965. Innovative and civic-minded she was highly regarded as a retailer, business executive and philanthropist. In 1965, three years before her death from cancer, she retired and sold the store to the May Company for $40 million, never having to witness the store's downfall in the city's real estate debacle of the 80's.
In 1985 the May Company sold off 30,000 square feet to the partnership of Ginsberg & Schwartz, whose two-year effort to renovate and rent the space as offices failed. Unable to sell the building or maintain it, the May Company gave it to the city along with about $3 million worth of delinquent taxes and maintenance bills. The department store closed in 1993. The vacant hulk became a pariah among its prestigious neighbors that include the Wadsworth Atheneum, America's oldest continuously operating art museum; the Hartford Stage regional theater; the historic Old State House; and other cultural venues. 
"While it lay empty, the city considered several scenarios, looking for anyone who could help develop it," said Matt Fleury, public information director for the Capital City Economic Development Authority. A merger of the state's community college and technical college systems provided the impetus for Capital Community College and Capital Technical College, located in two buildings three miles apart on Woodland Street and Flatbush Avenue, to seek a single location. 
In 1999 a deal was negotiated in which the city sold the Fox building in two parts. The state bought the college portion for about $1.75 million, and Mr. Autorino took the rest for $4.75 million.
Next door, on the Talcott Street side, a new 850,000-square-foot Morgan Street Garage, built and owned by the Hartford Parking Authority, opened in January of this year. "This was very important to commuter students," Dr. Rubenzahl said. The authority will turn over a minimum of 800 spaces in the 2,300-car, nine-story parking facility for students to use free of charge. The rest is open to the public. 
A striking departure from most parking garages, the structure has nine external elevator and stairway towers of blue-green glass thrust skyward, ending in turrets above the roofline. The building itself is precast concrete in two shades of tan, colored during the mix by controlling the amount of sand and stone. "We wanted something that wasn't going to look typical or obviously a garage," said Edward Witkofsky, the project architect at Amenta/Emma Architects P.C. of Hartford.
Capital Community College will at long last have a single custom designed building and ample parking, Dr. Rubenzahl said. "I think the school will be transformed because we will be in the most important location in Connecticut -- Main Street in the capital city."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 11-story former G. Fox department store on Main Street in Hartford will hold Capital Community College as well as a separate office, retail and restaurant complex covering 421,000 square feet. Map showing the location of Hartford, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); LOBBYING (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); BONDS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); SUBURBS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: CAPITAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD, CONN) 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; AUTORINO, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (98%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



688 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY / QUEENS; 
$82 Million Retail-Movie Center to Open in Jamaica

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
AFTER three decades and three unrealized development attempts, a two-acre city-owned site in central Jamaica, Queens, has been filled with a 411,000-square-foot entertainment and retail complex that will open next month. 
 The $82 million development, called Jamaica Center, has 135,000 square feet of retail space on its first two floors. Ten tenants have leased 80 percent of the space, including national retailers like the Gap and Walgreens. A 15-screen, 3,200-seat movie theater operated by National Amusements of Dedham, Mass., occupies the third floor, and there are two levels of underground parking for 400 cars. 
 The complex sits on a site, formerly used for parking, that is atop the Jamaica Center subway station at Parsons Boulevard and Archer Avenue. It is in the heart of the downtown shopping area -- along Jamaica Avenue -- which has struggled to rebound since the 1970's, when regional malls drained it of businesses and shoppers. 
Jamaica Center, which was developed by the Mattone Group of College Point, Queens, is the largest development financed mostly with private money in Jamaica in decades. Financing came from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Building Investment Trust and the developer's own equity, and another $14 million came from public sources.
Many local leaders hope the new stores and the return of movies to Jamaica after a 30-year absence will help the downtown to turn its fortunes around. 
"We have primed the pump with public investment since 1985," said F. Carlisle Towery, executive director of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, a nonprofit planning group. He pointed to the growth of York College on 50 acres south of the downtown and to the construction of two County Court buildings as well as of offices for the Social Security Administration and the Food and Drug Administration. 
Public investment continues in the form of a new terminal on Sutphin Boulevard at Jamaica Station for AirTrain, which is expected to start running next year. The light rail line, being built by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, will link Kennedy International Airport to bus and subway lines and the Long Island Rail Road. 
Still, public investment has not been enough to encourage the more than 250 stores that line the one-mile long shopping district to stay open after the work day ends. "Most owners see Jamaica Center as providing a shot in the arm and the movie theater as giving them the choice to stay open later," said Janet Barkan, executive director of the nonprofit Jamaica Center Improvement Association, which administers the downtown's special improvement district, including the new center. 
Now other privately financed developments are also in the works. For instance, one and half blocks from Jamaica Center, plans are advancing to fill a city-owned site with two eight-story buildings with a total of 180 market rate rental apartments -- the first housing of this type in downtown Jamaica since the 1960's.
Another project in the works is a 300,000-square-foot office building on a city-owned site at 94th Street and Sutphin Boulevard adjacent to the AirTrain terminal. Late last year LCOR, a development concern based in Berwyn, Pa., with offices in Manhattan, was selected to build the project, where the Long Island Rail Road is to consolidate its scattered offices to 100,000 square feet. 
Mr. Towery said the influence of Jamaica Center could extend beyond keeping the shops open later to take advantage of the moviegoing crowd. He said that the hope was to attract more national chains to the area, as well as more restaurants, and to have shops of a higher quality replace some of the low-end retailers. 
Ms. Barkan said that because the national tenants at Jamaica Center provide "the kind of stores people go to the nearby suburban malls to find," the new development would help to capture retail dollars that now flow out of the area.
The project is expected to create 350 new jobs and provide $46 million annually in direct and indirect economic benefits to the city, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which structured the deal with the Mattone Group. 
Other projects under way will also enhance the area's night life. They include the reuse of the empty city-owned First Reformed Church of Jamaica at 153-10 Jamaica Avenue into a 400-seat performing arts center and community space. An outdoor theater is being designed for on the grounds of the 1850's church, which is a city, state and national landmark, and construction is expected to begin in 2003. And the existing Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, also on the avenue, is being renovated, said Hazel Ephron, a partner at Wank Adams Slavin Associates, the Manhattan architectural firm working on both projects.
Lawrence V. Anderson, managing principal at Levin Realty Services of North Plainfield, N.J., who has brokered many deals in Queens, said that while it was possible Jamaica's turnaround would happen because all the ingredients from population to transportation and night-time activity are in place, success is not a sure thing. Other retail professionals said the perception of the area as being unsafe is a lingering challenge.
It has taken six years to make Jamaica Center a reality. In 1996 the city selected the Mattone Group to develop the site after the three earlier proposals, which focused mainly on offices, failed to move forward. The company spent four years securing financing, tenants and approvals for the project, which was redesigned to the current mix when a 100,000-square-foot office component was dropped. 
The deal was finally closed in 2000, and the Mattone Group is leasing the site from the city with an option to buy it after the fifth year.
"It took a lot of convincing to draw national retailers," said Joseph Mattone Sr., chairman of the Mattone Group. He said tenants were ultimately persuaded to sign on for space by "evidence that there were enough dual-income households" nearby to support the project. A market study done for the company found some 300,000 people with an average household income of $53,743 living within a two-mile radius of the site. 
Michael X. Mattone, Mr. Mattone's son and the company's chief financial officer, said the $14 million in public funds ($11 million in grants and $3 million in a low-interest loan) helped to keep rents competitive. In turn, he said, that helped the company to secure lease commitments from tenants for a significant amount of the retail space as well as from the theater and garage operator. Annual rents will average $30 to $50 a square foot, depending on the size and location of the store, he said, adding that a percentage of the project's rental stream goes to the city to pay back the loan.
WHAT also helped fill the project is that it is in a state Empire Zone, where commercial tenants pay no state sales tax on equipment. They can also take advantage of business tax breaks and other incentives, including a discount on utility bills and a $1,500 credit against their state income tax for each new full-time employee brought onto the tax rolls.
National Amusements signed on as a tenant in 1999 after the developer was unable to come to an agreement with Sony Theaters, which earlier had been negotiating to put in a Magic Johnson movie house in the theater space. This will be the 12th theater in New York City for National Amusements, which continues to expand while the industry over all deals with an overbuilding frenzy of the 1990's that resulted in a spate of theater closings and bankruptcy filings by some big chain operators.
"We see Jamaica as a great location, with a tremendous population and access to transportation, that has been underserved for some time,"said Jennifer Hanson, a spokeswoman for National Amusements. 
Mr. Towery of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation said that seven movie theaters once operated in downtown Jamaica, but they all went dark as the area declined, with the last one closing in the 1970's. With Jamaica Center, he said, the area not only will be able "to recapture the entertainment activity, but the retail sales and jobs Jamaica has lost to suburban malls over the decades."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jamaica Center will have a 15-screen movie theater seating 3,200 as well as 135,000 square feet of retail space. (Richard Lee for The New York Times) Map showing the location of Jamaica, Queens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); AIRPORTS (62%); PORT AUTHORITIES (62%) MOTION PICTURES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%) MATTONE GROUP (CO); JAMAICA CENTER (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



689 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Straight Talk, Straight Out of Newark 

BYLINE:  By LISA SUHAY 

DATELINE: VAUXHALL 

 BODY:
JACKIE HARDRICK came out of Newark to publish a book that has New Jersey teenagers and their teachers openly talking about sex, class struggles, racism, lies and consequences.
 "It's not a black thing, it's a young adult thing," Ms. Hardrick says of the topics tackled in her novel, "Imani in Young Love & Deception." "These issues are universal, but my race, African American that is, leads the nation in AIDS, high school dropouts, teen pregnancy, single-parent households and unemployment. So in that sense it does speak more to black teenagers." 
 Single and childless, in her early 30's, Ms. Hardrick now lives in Vauxhall, a well-tended North Jersey suburb, with her mother and a sister. She still gets to Newark frequently, where she lived until she graduated from college at age 25, visiting schools and libraries, running a sort of literary Scared Straight program for teenagers. 
"Now is my time to do this," she said. "I needed to take this risk and do this before I get married, have children."
Still, she says that not being a parent does not make her well of experience shallow. "All you have to do is look around, watch TV and have a background in the inner city to know what's out there," she said.
She apparently captured those surroundings skillfully, because her book has been praised by Ebony and Essence magazines. Indeed, she did so well that she left a job in human resources to lecture and lead discussions on the book and the subjects it raises.
Born in Newark, Ms. Hardrick was reared by strict Southern Baptist parents who had come North from Lumpkin, Ga. Her family rented one floor of a three-family house on Morris Avenue, next door to the Greater Bethel Baptist church, where her father, Eddie B. Hardrick, was a deacon. Though life was stable at home, the area was in what Ms. Hardrick called "a period of upheaval and decay," with high-rise housing projects being demolished and stores boarded up.
When her father wasn't at the church, he was working as a shoemaker in Edison. He died of complications from diabetes eight years ago, and the book is dedicated to him.
"I miss him," she said.
Her mother, Melba, now 67, worked in various factory jobs until her third child was born. Ms. Hardrick, the oldest child, has two brothers and two sisters, all of whom live in New Jersey.
Ms. Hardrick, a small, soft-spoken woman with short, straight hair and a slightly stiff bearing, seems more like a librarian of old than a cutting-edge novelist for the young. As she spoke to people lined up at her booth earlier this month at the New Jersey Library Association Conference at the Garden State Exhibit Center in Somerset, her shyness evaporated as her voice grew with emotion when she spoke about her race, the inner city and how "fast money and a fast life can lead to a quick death." 
Asked about where she finds inspiration she said: "I drive through Newark, I see a kid who should be in school, shuffling along. The same old winos on the corner that are the next generation of winos from when I lived there and I want to scream. I want to stop and tell them, 'Enough! God did not design you for this. You can be more.' "
There is a fire in the belly and preach in her speech. She is, after all, a deacon's daughter. Then she shrinks back into the unassuming author.
Ms. Hardrick attended Newton Street Elementary School and Central High School in Newark, where she began keeping a daily journal. She was the first in her family to graduate from college when she earned her bachelor's degree in business administration from Seton Hall University, in South Orange. She went to work as a department manager at a Macy's in Plainfield, a human resources supervisor for Anheuser Busch in Newark and then a buyer for Liz Claiborne in New York. 
Yet she was unsatisfied with the daily grind and feeling "like I wasn't contributing anything to the world." She began taking writing courses at a community college and attending writers' workshops where she was required to write short stories. " 'Imani' is the product of one of those short stories," she said.
She took a long look at society and found the materials bombarding the teenage population to be wanting and wanton. 
"Young adults, especially those of color, are drowning in negativism showered upon them by movies, media, lyrics," she said. "These vices are detours that are consuming young adult lives. Nobody is telling them to own up to responsibilities."
So, for two and a half years she spent her free time channeling her concerns and impressions into "Imani." Her manuscript was rejected by 10 literary agents before she decided to use her savings to publish 4,000 copies herself under the Enlighten Publications imprint in 1999. She then published a discussion guide as a companion for the book. The book, $14, is not sold in stores; it can be ordered at (866) 862-8626 or enlightenpub@yahoo.com
"I was no angel as a teen," Ms. Hardrick said. She did some stunts common to teenagers: swiping a cigarette that made her gag, club crawling, lifting candy from a grocery store. "But that didn't last. I was lucky because I had this grounding in the church and very strict parents who made our house like an oasis.
"I had a reference point growing up," she added. "I had two parents, which was rare even then. I had the church and chores and strict rules of conduct to follow." In the Hardrick household, children were in the house before dark "so nobody could get tempted into any kind of trouble."
That is not so in her book.
"Imani" follows the lives of a group of urban teenagers struggling into adulthood. They make the journey over hot coals like pregnancy, peer pressure, rich kid-poor kid dynamics, sexually transmitted diseases and drunk driving.
It is not a titillating romp, but a sober picture of truth and consequences. The book has spun off into a series of workshops called "Keeping it Real" for teenagers.
The sessions began in January with Herb Williams, programs and events coordinator for the Newark Public Library, who had the library buy 300 "Imani" books and distribute them throughout the high schools in Newark. 
He then created a series of book discussions on topics addressed in "Imani." Young actors were on hand to perform skits based on the book. The first event, Feb. 25, drew 300 youngsters. The next event at the library will take place 10 a.m. on May 6. Admission is free. Ms. Hardrick has visited perhaps a dozen schools in central and northern New Jersey, and as a result of her mentions in the magazines, she will be making presentations in Mississippi.
"This is no holds barred," Ms. Hardrick said of the discussions. "I take it as far as they want to take it. Yes, we do talk a lot about sex, but the book and my talks are pro-abstinence. I deglamorize sex. These kids get a lot of bad information on sex."
She also talks to youngsters about stereotyping by race and financial status. Ms. Hardrick views racial profiling by stores, employers and police as one more hurdle.
"Look, I was there," she said. "I worked in retail. I know that as a black woman walking into a store I am the first thing security zeroes in on."
Speaking of the program, Mr. Williams said: "I felt comfortable with it. Nothing went too far and I never felt embarrassed by anything discussed. We looked at issues and Jackie was very good at turning the discussion from sex to consequences and choices."
For her part Ms. Hardrick is jubilant about the sessions. "A girl wrote and said she didn't think she could read a whole book until 'Imani.' I think that's a step. Every teen I reach is a step up and over that barrier. I know I am succeeding when we do a session and the kids refuse to leave."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jackie Hardrick, brought up in Newark, has led discussions at the Newark Public Library, where she is seen, based on her "Imani in Young Love & Deception." (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SEX EDUCATION (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WRITERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%); DIABETES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BLACKS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: SUHAY, LISA; HARDRICK, JACKIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: IMANI IN YOUNG LOVE & DECEPTION 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



690 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2749 words

HEADLINE: There's No Place Like Home 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
MICHELLE CAPUTO, 28, has visited New York City a half-dozen times in her life. On its face, this would hardly seem unusual. She prefers to take getaway vacations to more tranquil locales, most recently to Florida, Cancun and the Bahamas. 
 But Ms. Caputo has lived her entire life in Rutherford, N.J., a 15-minute drive into Midtown Manhattan. 
 She doesn't even pop into Manhattan for a night out. For her, the city's bother -- traffic, crowds, expense, parking problems -- outweigh its benefits. 
"Honestly? It's just inconvenient," said Ms. Caputo, who is a billing auditor at a Paramus telecommunications company. "You have to deal with getting there and getting back. You're surrounded by people and you can't do anything. I hate standing in line. I don't want to wait a half-hour in a station for some train. Here, I can get into the car and go where I want in a half-hour, park right in front, and not deal with a million people."
Ms. Caputo is not alone. Sure, there are tourists who travel thousands of miles and spend thousands of dollars to visit New York City. There are young people in small towns all over America for whom New York is a mecca, whose fervent dream is to move to the city to live, to work, to reinvent themselves. Yet many suburbanites within clear view of the Manhattan skyline remain virtual strangers to the city, rarely venturing in. For many of them, visiting New York City was something you did as a child, going to see the Christmas spectacular at Radio City Music Hall or taking out-of-town relatives to the Empire State Building. 
Easy access to Manhattan is something people pay dearly for. The city bestows upon its suburbs -- north in Westchester and Connecticut, east on Long Island, and north, west and south in New Jersey -- some of the highest housing prices, taxes and costs of living in the world. And indeed, most suburbanites are on familiar terms with that place known to all simply as the City. Yet there are people who do not know the Bronx from the Battery and do not care to. There are plenty of suburbanites, sane, sociable, sophisticated, who will look you in the eye and tell you they simply do not see what the fuss is over Manhattan. 
Dan Rattiner, editor and publisher of Dan's Papers, a free weekly newspaper distributed on eastern Long Island and in parts of Manhattan, moved from Greenwich Village to eastern Long Island in the early 1980's and did not return to the city for 10 years. 
"I decided I didn't need to go back at all, I was so happy here," Mr. Rattiner recalled. "The closest I'd get was J.F.K. Airport. I traveled all over the world but never to New York. I would fantasize that it didn't exist at all, that it was just a big, cardboard skyline." 
Mr. Rattiner said that he now visits the city about every three weeks, but added, "I know people, adults, who've never been out of the Hamptons, much less to New York City." 
Avoiding Manhattan was understandable during the city's more dismal days, when its streets were dirty and crime-ridden, when arriving in Manhattan meant fending off squeegee men, when the subway was scrawled with graffiti, and the sidewalks were full of stereotypically rude, rushing New Yorkers.
The image of the pushy New Yorker may never change, but the city has. Manhattan is much safer and visitor-friendly now. Since Sept. 11 many now regard the city with greater sympathy. But for many of those who once shunned or feared it, the disaster has reinforced their aversions to New York.
Many experts say a suburbanite tendency to avoid the city may be more pervasive than ever. Partly, it is a reflection of societal shifts over recent decades. As the city's economy has decentralized, more jobs have spread to the suburbs. It is no longer so necessary to commute to the city. Many services, once considered the exclusive domain of Manhattan, including fine restaurants and shopping, cultural and fine arts offerings and state of the art hospitals, are now suburban staples as well.
But avoiding New York City seems to have more to do with mindset. Those who shun the city offer various reasons: Some don't want to go; some don't need to; others are afraid to. Some lack the time, others the money. Some have been unnerved by bad city experiences or the terrorist attacks. Certainly, many suburban families have tight schedules, and Manhattan winds up getting pre-empted by a regimented lineup of children's soccer games, karate practice and birthday parties.
This is the case with Nancy and Stephen Pryor who live in Rye with their four children, ages 5 through 13. Mrs. Pryor said that several times a year -- "when we want to do something special" -- the family piles into the S.U.V. (never the train) and takes the 40-minute drive into Midtown Manhattan. That includes the annual Thanksgiving Day parade with the family, and the annual night out for dinner and swing dancing.
Mr. Pryor, an accountant with a practice in Port Chester, grew up in Rye and Mrs. Pryor grew up in New Rochelle. Neither were ever big city people.
"It's not that we don't want to go in more, but we don't really have the time," said Mrs. Pryor. "We have four kids and we're involved in our community, so we tend to socialize around here."

Strange People, Tall Buildings
Psychologists who practice in the suburbs say fear of New York is a common condition among their patients. Fears range from becoming lost or trapped or mugged in the city to being surrounded and suffocated by crowds of strange people and tall buildings. Some patients have been taught by their parents to be wary of the city, and speak of New York as a terrifying foreign land, said Peter S. Kanaris, a Smithtown psychologist who uses various techniques, including relaxation and meditative breathing, to get patients to be able to travel into Manhattan. "When you think of the city, you think of this great diversity of people," Mr. Kanaris said, adding that a typical patient's reaction to that is: "It's a place where I'm going to encounter many types of different people and that feels dangerous to me." 
Beth Wilson, 57, of Amityville, said she has visited the city about 10 times in the past 10 years. Each visit has caused panic attacks, she said, a vertigo that can be relieved only by staring down at the pavement and running "in the direction of Long Island."
"It's a claustrophobic thing," said Mrs. Wilson, a program administrator for Cablevision in Bethpage and a lifelong Long Islander. "I feel like Superman when he has the Kryptonite." 
Nina K. Thomas, a clinical psychologist who practices in Morristown, N.J., said that some suburbanites may become so cloistered that "traveling to Manhattan takes on the air of a major trip, as if to a foreign country."
This is the case for Victoria Linefsky, 44, who has basically avoided New York City since childhood. Mrs. Linefsky, who works part time both in a law office and a preschool, lives in Massapequa, just west of Amityville. The city is an hour's drive to Manhattan in light traffic, but it is worlds away for Ms. Linefsky, who said she has "no clue" how to navigate Manhattan, or even hail a cab. "I don't know my way around," she said. "What's uptown? Downtown? What's a good section?" Her three children, ages 18, 14 and 9, are Long Islanders, and she has no intention of making them New Yorkers. 
"My parents never raised me very culturally," she said. "I've never been to a play in the city. I've never been to Broadway."
Glenville, Conn., said of New York City: "Why would you want to go down there? To pay $6.50 for a beer?" The club charges a decidedly less metropolitan price of $2.25 for a bottle of Budweiser. Mr. Brown, 55, known locally as J. B., is a maintenance worker for the town of Greenwich, but is out on disability. He lives in Byram, Conn., and his last visit to Manhattan occurred about 20 years ago, he said, and that was for his job. 
The bartender, Joseph Salvatore, 61, of Greenwich, said he has only begun visiting the city again in recent years, to take his two young daughters who are learning about Manhattan in school. Mr. Salvatore, a local cemetery caretaker, said before that, he had not been to the city in about 15 years, "and if I wasn't taking them, I wouldn't be going down there." 

The Metropolis in the Backyard
Anti-urban sentiment is not new. After all, the suburbs sprang up largely as an alternative to city life, an escape from crowding, pollution and strangers. Immigrants who came to New York through Ellis Island worked their way from gritty urban tenements to modest, grassy plots in Levittown or New Rochelle. Many of them, and the generations they begot, have never felt the need to look back. 
"I can't tell you how many students I've asked, 'When was the last time you were in the city?' and they've said, 'When I was 5,' " said Gail Satler, a sociology professor at Hofstra University who teaches urban planning and design.
Most of Ms. Satler's students have grown up on Long Island within an hour of the city. But few students were even remotely familiar with New York City, so she began planning class trips into Manhattan to introduce them to the metropolis in their backyard. 
"We were talking about it like it's so far away and it's not," she said. "Unless I make them go, most of them won't." 
In March, the class visited St. Patrick's Cathedral and Times Square.
"Half of them had never seen Central Park," Ms. Satler said. "Some are embarrassed and some are proud. Their attitude is: They've never been in, and they don't have to be." 
For 20 years, Mineola High School in Nassau County, has offered its senior-year students a one-semester class on New York City. The curriculum covers everything from night life to architecture. Students are taken on monthly trips into the city.
Paul Pereira, a social studies teacher, who teaches the class, understands the suburban mindset from firsthand experience. "The only time I went in as a kid is when I went in on a bus for a school trip," he said. "Most of these kids think it's scary and dangerous and dirty like they see in the movies, and that's why we teach the course."
His own parents were from Portugal. "They were happier sending me in my teens the 3,000 miles to see Portugal than sending me 30 minutes on the train to the city," Mr. Pereira said. "A lot of kids pick up stereotypes about the city from their parents who were born and bred here. For them the suburbs equals a better quality of life. But culture's not out in Mineola or Massapequa. It's just lawns and shopping malls and storefronts here. There's no character.
"I get parents coming up and asking, 'Do you offer this class for adults?' Even parents who work in Manhattan, a lot of them just go in and come right out again."

The Suburb to Suburb Commute
Over recent decades, the activity that was once the sole province of New York City has decentralized, allowing people to settle in the suburbs and shun the city, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. 
"The suburbs have become self-contained universes," he said. "There are very few unique things in the city now that suburban people feel they have to access on a regular basis." 
Professor Hughes noted, for example, that in 1950, New York City had 3.4 million jobs, and the state of New Jersey had 1.7 million. But in 2000, New Jersey had 4 million jobs compared to the city's 3.7 million. The trends were similar in Long Island, Westchester and lower Connecticut. 
The proliferation of suburban office parks in the 1980's allowed many commuters to the city to work in the suburbs instead. Mr. Hughes said that the network of office parks in New York's suburbs, including north-central New Jersey, Fairfield County and Stamford in Connecticut, the White Plains area in Westchester, and Route 110 on Long Island has the third largest amount of office space in the country, behind New York City and Chicago.
"The suburbs have really evolved into horizontal cities, replicating the urban market place," Professor Hughes said.
Now most people, he continued, are commuting from one suburb to another. Most people now work in the county in which they live or in an adjacent one. There are now about 50 large regional malls outside Manhattan, accounting for roughly 50 million square feet of retail space. And some New York City dwellers now even travel to the suburbs to shop at big box stores like Ikea in Elizabeth and Home Depot in Yonkers. 

'Everything I Need Is Here'
Some simply stay in the suburbs because of the comforts: the grass, the trees, the space, the privacy -- and the familiarity. 
Patrick Driscoll lives in Millburn, N.J., a half-hour drive from Manhattan. Mr. Driscoll co-owns a bicycle shop in Millburne. His wife, Amy, is pregnant with their third child. Apart from a few business obligations, he has hardly visited the city in the last five years. "I really don't go in any more of my own accord," he said. "The city is just not something we really think about much. I'd rather not deal with that many people. I like a slower environment and having a million people waking around you on the sidewalk, I'd rather be sitting in the backyard in a small town, relaxing." 
Taking the trains can be a deterrent, especially negotiating transfers. "It's not just the people you don't know," he said. "It's a whole system you don't know." 
Suburbanites are used to the privacy of their cars, essential in suburbia but often an impediment to navigating Manhattan, where there are more aggressive drivers and fewer parking spaces. But mass transit looms large as an obstacle to those who don't go regularly to the city. 
Dena Mosiello, 22, a student at Pace University who lives on campus, says she only goes into Manhattan about once a year because 'It's a great place, but there are so many obstacles that stop me from going.'
It is only an hour's drive into downtown Manhattan, she said, but there is often traffic, and she refuses to chance parking her 2002 Jeep Wrangler on most city streets.
"It's very difficult to get there and there's nowhere to park unless you have $30 for a garage," she said. "The last train at night leaves around 1, so you're trapped down there because I'm not leaving a club before 1 a.m."
Many Pace students are more likely to go to the nightclubs in New Rochelle or the bars in Pleasantville or White Plains, and the fear caused by the Sept. 11 attacks has meant even fewer venture into the city.
Ms. Mosiello's father, Alfred Mosiello, lives in Putnam Valley and is a lieutenant in the Pelham Manor Police Department. He goes into Manhattan maybe once a year.
"Manhattan is great if you're into the arts and museums," he said. "It's all down there. I happen to like the wide, open spaces."
"It's got to be in your life style," he said. "There are people living there who wouldn't go anywhere else either."
Burta E. Smith, 70, a retired accountant, lives in Fairfield, Conn., a 75-minute train ride to Grand Central Terminal. She is active (she baby-sits full time) and adventurous (last summer, she drove her car to Texas), but she has visited Manhattan only about four times since she moved to the East Coast in 1991 from the Los Angeles area. Once, she was "bribed" to visit the city with tickets to "Cats," she said, and the other times she agreed to accompany sightseeing relatives.
"I would never go into the city on my own, either by car or train," she said. "I'm really not a city girl. It's nothing personal. I just like my peace and quiet. I have pretty much everything I need here."
Those who do go into the city regularly, just because they want to, not because they work there, are sometimes met with surprise. Geoff Thompson of Briarcliff Manor in Westchester co-owns a public relations firm there whose clients are almost exclusively Westchester businesses. 
Mr. Thompson said he travels regularly into Manhattan to attend New York Rangers games, Broadway shows and films. It never fails to amaze the neighbors, he said. "When I tell them we went into the city, they say, 'Jeez, you did? We haven't gone in for years,' " he said. "I'm always astounded. There are many people who would drive to Cape Cod more readily than drive into the city and see a film. 
"You can see the Manhattan skyline from here, but for many people here, it might as well be the Land of Oz," he said. "It's funny, because so many people in Westchester originally came from New York City, and they talk about it like they moved to Vermont, instead of just Katonah."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Rye, Nancy Pryor and her daughter, Caitlin, above, load the S.U.V. with a delivery of Girl Scout cookies. Beth Wilson, left, does some gardening at her Amityville Home. She says she experiences panic attacks when visiting New York City. (Phil Marino for The New York Times; Suzy Allman for The New York Times) (pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (70%); REAL ESTATE (65%); PUBLISHING (63%); HOUSING MARKET (61%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); HOME PRICES (50%) SUBURBS; COMMUTING 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



691 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Briefing: Environment; 
DELAWARE DREDGING DELAYED

BYLINE:  By John Sullivan 

 BODY:
 The Army Corps of Engineers has delayed plans to deepen the Delaware River shipping channel because of questions raised about the $377 million project by Congressional investigators. 
The corps said last week that the project was being placed on hold until the questions could be answered. Both the corps and the General Accounting Office declined to disclose the issues that led to the delay, although Homer Perkins, a spokesman for the corps, said they involved "the economics that were used in our study." The corps had intended to deepen the Delaware's channel to 45 feet to accommodate larger ships. Critics have said the plan would cause irreparable environmental damage and little or no economic benefit. John Sullivan

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (82%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; DREDGES AND DREDGING 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS 

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (77%) SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) DELAWARE RIVER

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



692 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 48 words

HEADLINE: Briefing: Government; 
BOND RATING DIP

BYLINE:  By Jeremy Pearce 

 BODY:
 A Wall Street bond-rating agency, Fitch Ratings, last week slightly lowered the rating for general obligation bonds from double A-plus to double A. On other debts, the state's position fell from double A to double A-minus. The firm cited the state's budget shortfall. Jeremy Pearce

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); BUDGETS (84%) RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FITCH INVESTORS SERVICE INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: PEARCE, JEREMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



693 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: State Budget Increase Is Really Over 9 Percent 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Governor McGreevey wants to raise more taxes. He is putting the additional burden on business. He also wants to place additional taxes on small businesses operating as flow-through entities (for example, S corporations and limited liability companies). 
The owners of these entities are already paying very high taxes, as evidenced by increases in New Jersey personal income tax collections, which have tripled the rate of inflation over the past decade (92.5 percent compared with 27 percent).
 The governor claims that this year's budget increases spending a mere 1.5 percent by stating that spending for the 2002 fiscal year will end up at $23.32 billion dollars and that 2003 spending will be only $343 million higher at a mere $23.663 billion. That is not true. Included as a line item for Total Resources for 2002 is an item identified as "Lapses." Simply, that is money that is not going to be spent. Hence, at most, only $21.644 billion will be spent for 2002. Thus, the budgeted spending for 2003 is 9.2 percent higher then the amount being spent for this year. 
 Furthermore, even if 2002 is an aberration, the proposals for 2003 are more than 11 percent above the amount budgeted for the 2001 fiscal year, a pace more than double the inflation rate over the past two years. 
So, why does New Jersey need to increase spending nearly two and a half times faster then the rest of us? The answer is that it doesn't. Rather, Governor McGreevey should spend less.

E. MARTIN DAVIDOFF
East Brunswick

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INCOME TAX (56%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); DAVIDOFF, E MARTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



694 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Finally, A Good Year To Look Offshore

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE last decade has not been a terrific time to own foreign stocks. 
 From 1992 through 2001, there have been only three years in which foreign stock mutual funds, on average, outperformed diversified stock funds focusing on the United States, according to Morningstar Inc. The most recent was 1999. 
 But so far this year, most foreign markets are doing better than their American counterparts. 
David Bowers, chief global investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, talked last week about the wisdom of investing money offshore. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. In early March, you suggested that foreign stocks were worth a look. Why?

A. The most important reason was valuation. The U.S. looked very expensive. We look at a survey of Merrill Lynch fund managers every month, and in February 62 percent said the United States was the most overvalued equity market in the world.
Even with the drop in the market since then, and the rise overseas, the United States still looks expensive to foreign markets, especially emerging markets. 

Q. Are you worried about the United States market?

A. No, and that is why we did not go to an underweight position.
Until and unless you can make a long-term bear case for U.S. financial stocks relative to the rest of the world, and a bear case for consumer staples and health care, history would say you should not rush to go negative on America. And the performance of what is happening in the financial sector is very, very important. Over the last 25 years, whenever international stocks have done better than American stocks, international financial stocks have done better than U.S. financials. 

Q. What are the prospects for Japan?

A. People are shocked that Japan has outperformed the U.S. so far this year. It is a really interesting situation. We think there are medium-term risks in Japan, but in the short term, if there is any recovery internationally, Japan is a warrant on the synchronized global recovery. But that is a tactical call, not a strategic investment. You don't want to own Japan, you want to rent it.

Q. What are the prospects for Europe?

A. I can see how Europe might benefit as a default call: the United States is too expensive, Japan is too risky, emerging markets are too small. But I don't find it an interesting argument.
There may be some currency benefit, but Europe still has to go through corporate restructuring and other supply-side changes. With elections in France and Germany this year, it is hard to see how you are going to get radical change before those are over. 

Q. Why do you find emerging markets appealing?

A. Emerging markets are an alternative asset that is competing with technology stocks for risk capital. Very few people are making the direct comparison, but we think it is valid. In terms of risk and return, emerging markets and the Nasdaq are similar marketplaces. Ask anybody who has invested in Nasdaq over the last couple of years.
And emerging-market valuations are the most attractive out there. Emerging markets are still trading at only 11 times earnings, versus about 90 times for the Nasdaq composite index. 
What about currency risk? That is nothing compared to what has happened to technology stocks over the last two years. 
We think emerging markets offer opportunity in the short term and the long term: it could take three to four years before the valuation gap between emerging markets and the Nasdaq is substantially narrowed.

Q. Are we near the bottom of the cycle for technology stocks?

A. Our fear is that technology is a long workout. You may get some bounces, but it will be another two to four years before these problems are worked out.
This is the big talking point: How much damage has been done to balance sheets, and how much do I want to pay up for them? 
And you have to distinguish between earnings and profitability. You can get a rebound in technology earnings, but balance sheets take a long time to work out. Going forward, returns on capital are going to be quite low for technology stocks. 
Until we see some of those problems addressed, those who have been investing risk capital in the United States might think about diversifying elsewhere.

Q. What would make you feel better about the prospects for United States markets?

A. If valuations in the United States came down, if the capital spending cycle picked up again and if earnings picked up strongly.
The United States needs to prove that its economic miracle is working. There is still a lot of latent optimism about earnings growth in this country. That could be the case. But at these valuations, it has to be the case.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Bowers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MORNINGSTAR INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: BOWERS, DAVID (EXEC); GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



695 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
The Nanny Is Late. You Have a Speech. What Now?

BYLINE:  By JULIE HALPERT 

 BODY:
ALMOST every working parent has faced the task of finding emergency child care.
 Marcia C. Inhorn remembers all too vividly the quandary she faced six years ago, when her son, then 13 months old, came down with chickenpox. 
 Ms. Inhorn could not miss work but also could not send him to day care. So she toted the feverish toddler in a sling, nursing him as she taught a graduate class in anthropology at Emory University in Atlanta. "It caused a lot of discussion," she said. 
She is spared such problems these days. The University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, where she now teaches, provides backup care for all eligible employees and students. They call a toll-free number, and a child care worker comes to their home.
The university is among a growing number of employers nationwide to offer care, either at home or in centers, when families have emergencies. Some centers, however, do not offer care for sick children.
At least 15 percent of corporations now offer backup care as a perk, according to a recent study by Hewitt Associates. In fact, backup care is considered the fastest-growing part of the child care industry. 
The centers help employers reduce the work hours lost to family emergencies. According to the National Conference on State Legislatures, 80 percent of employees with children miss work at some point because of child care problems.
Law firms, which hate to lose billable hours, were the first to try the idea, and once they demonstrated the savings, other companies followed quickly. Now backup care is offered by all kinds of businesses, from banks to Wall Street firms to retailers. 
Backup centers that care for children up to the age of 12 are considered better investments for employers than full-time centers that care for only very young children, because they help far more employees, said Dr. Susan Ginsberg, who publishes Work and Family Life, a newsletter. In 1988, Dr. Ginsberg helped establish multiemployer backup care in New York City through a group called the Corporate Consortium for Emergency Child Care Services.
GOLDMAN SACHS, which started offering backup care in 1993, says it has seen the benefits. Its centers cost an average of $1 million to build and $720,000 annually to operate. But in 2001 alone, the firm said, the service saved more than 3,500 workdays, or more than $1.3 million.
For J. P. Morgan Chase, the payback comes in more than dollar savings, said Joy Bunson, a senior vice president for human resources. The company's backup program is extensive: it has 14 centers, with three others set to open by next year. In a survey last year, more than 90 percent of employees responding said the program had improved morale and productivity. 
"I'm able to go to work and not have to worry about how my son is doing," said Yolanda Lopez, of Missouri City, Tex., a Chase client-relationship manager who has often used the service for her 10-year-old son.
Corporations typically hire one of a few fast-growing child care companies to run their centers, which are usually at or near the work site. ChildrenFirst Inc. in Boston, for instance, has 250 clients, including Sony, Simon & Schuster, Citigroup, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Lifetime Television and the Massachusetts Medical Society.
Rosemary Jordano, founder of ChildrenFirst, a privately held company, sees a huge need for such services because 70 percent of families rely on care in their own homes or in those of the providers -- the types of care most likely to break down.
To use ChildrenFirst's centers, clients pay annual fees, which might range from $23,000 for a company with up to 100 employees to $264,000 for a 4,000-employee investment bank. For clients, Ms. Jordano said, that is more economical than building a center on site for full-time day care; such a center can cost $4 million to build.
Because backup care can improve productivity, the business is growing even as employers are otherwise cutting costs, said Deborah Dumont, vice president of Aramark Work/Life Partnerships in Philadelphia; it has 30 backup care clients. 
Cindy Lipton, senior vice president of Lipton Corporate Child Care Centers, a private company based in Washington with 250 clients, including The New York Times, said it and rival care providers, like ChildrenFirst and Bright Horizons Family Solutions, could have care centers near one another in New York and all thrive.
Some full-time care centers are also getting into the business. KinderCare, a public company, provides backup care to several clients, including U.S. Cellular, Prudential Insurance and Universal Studios, at 60 of its 1,200 full-time centers.
Bright Horizons, a public company based in Watertown, Mass., runs centers built by its clients. It now operates 33 backup centers, with four more scheduled to open this year, and 25 providing full-time and backup care.
One of its centers is Parke Place Family Center, in Ann Arbor, Mich., serving employees of Pfizer Global Research and Development. The center, designed by Pfizer, is a large, brightly colored space that also offers three playgrounds and provides full-time and backup services.
Most backup care companies lure and keep well-qualified workers with perks like stock options, health benefits, education compensation and profit sharing. Bright Horizons says it has an annual turnover rate of just 10 percent a year for its backup care staff, compared with about 30 to 40 percent in the child care industry. 
Most backup care providers say they aim to keep the ratio of care providers to children low. At ChildrenFirst, for example, there is one care provider for each infant, and ratios of one to four for toddlers, one to six for preschoolers and one to eight for school-age children. Those numbers helped sway Gail Dorn, vice president for community relations at the Target Corporation in Minneapolis, which has started backup care through ChildrenFirst. A mother of five, Ms. Dorn expects to use the service often. Backup care lets parents "relax and focus on their job," she said; the staff has even sent them e-mail photographs of their smiling children during the workday. 
While some centers care for sick children, many, like ChildrenFirst's, do not. Ms. Jordano said parents prefer to take personal days off when their children are ill.
Not everyone has that choice. "We are the option for when you have your back against the wall," said Gail Johnson, who runs Rainbow Station in Richmond, Va., one of many facilities that set aside areas for sick children, cared for by a pediatric nurse.
There are now roughly 350 centers for sick children, said Dr. Jacqueline Stewart, president of the National Association for Sick Child Day Care in Birmingham, Ala., up from 75 eight years ago.
Michele Silbert, a newly separated mother of two young girls in Richmond, was grateful that her new employer, St. Mary's Hospital in Richmond, provided care through Rainbow Station. In her first week on the job, both her children became ill. She dropped them off at Rainbow Station, where they were given medicine, watched videos, took naps and even had chicken soup.
But some employers say children prefer the comforts of home to an unfamiliar center. Harvard University uses Parents in a Pinch in Brookline, Mass. Barbara Marcus, the company's president, relies on part-time workers, including students who go to the employees' homes. Judy Walker, co-manager of work and family at Harvard, said the program had helped attract new faculty members and retain existing employees.
Unlike child care centers, agencies that provide care in a child's home do not require state licensing, according to Pauline D. Koch, executive director of the National Association for Regulatory Administration in St. Paul., so anyone choosing home care needs to be vigilant about qualifications, said Faith Wohl, president of the Child Care Action Campaign in New York, a nonprofit group. The biggest drawback to backup care, she said, is that there is not enough of it.
OTHERS say backup care is not always a perfect solution. Madeline Fried, a principal at Caliber Fried & Sher, a consulting firm in Fairfax, Va., who specializes in child care, said that for children under 4, adjusting to a new center can be "monumental." Ms. Fried says the best solution is a flexible benefits package that allows parents to stay home during child care emergencies. 
Karen Heying, a manager with Child Care Aware in Washington, a program financed by government agencies, said the need for care varies widely among families. The best answer, she said, is a range of options provided by employers.
Citigroup covers many bases, providing full-time and backup care, as well as a service that sends child-care workers to employees' homes. "We realize that one size won't fit all," said Sam Rubino, Citigroup's director of work-life programs. 
To Ms. Inhorn, at the University of Michigan, backup care is the most valuable service her employer could provide, allowing her to perform what she called a "delicate balancing act." "It's not fair to kids to be carried to a work site when they're not feeling well," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alison Hanno, a teacher at ChildrenFirst, a company that provides backup day care, watched children at a center in Minneapolis. (Steve Wewerka for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); LAW PRACTICE (72%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); WORKPLACE MORALE (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%) LABOR; CHILD CARE 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HALPERT, JULIE EDELSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%); GEORGIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



696 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB; 
The Work Is Temporary, the Memories Lasting

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
For bosses, temporary workers can be a boon or a burden. For temps themselves, their jobs can be a bother or a blessing, and even a movable feast.
 "The company I work for has had nothing but bad luck with temps for years," writes an administrative assistant for a civil engineering and surveying company in the Northeast. As an example, she recalls a temp hired last summer. 
 "We had a nice, personable young woman," she writes. "All she had to do for two weeks was answer the phone and type any simple items people gave her. When she left, we discovered some very interesting things about her.
"According to other employees, she had complained she was bored, but she never asked her supervisor for anything to do. She got annoyed when people asked her to do things because, apparently, they interfered with chatting online and over the phone with her friends. 
"Then we discovered she had been using the company e-mail to talk to her friends and hadn't deleted any of them. Her supervisor and I decided to read some of them. Were we in for a surprise!
"Not only did she have a bizarre, slightly chilling personal life, but, on more than one occasion, she told her friends she wanted to kill certain people in the office. Some of the e-mails were in a language neither I nor the supervisor know. It was a little frightening since we didn't know if she was capable of acting upon her comments (not to mention we didn't have a clue what she said in the foreign-language ones). The supervisor printed some of them and sent them to the temp agency.
"Obviously, we specifically asked that she not be sent to us again."
Until the early 1990's, Barrett Newman, now the assistant general manager of the Warner Theater in Washington, was what he calls a member of the legion of temps, specializing in short-term assignments and racking up more than 60 in just a couple of years. Either because of a desire to diet or a perpetual lack of money, he found himself going through his workdays without eating lunch or even leaving the building, which sometimes led to accolades for his businesslike work style.
But then he began to notice the free food at his various jobs. Cheap danish pastries brought in on Fridays. The occasional birthday cake. The tea. The hot chocolate. One large law firm kept an extensive stock of sodas, juices, soups and other food.
But weren't temps like Mr. Newman second-class citizens, not entitled to partake? He finally decided to seize the day. 
He had stumbled into what he described at the time as "a voraciously satisfying culinary experience." There was the going-away party for a longtime employee -- or maybe it was a return party or a maternity party -- that yielded pasta salads, ziti, a deli platter, assorted sides and desserts. Holidays brought wonderful buffets and edible "tokens of appreciation" that the secretarial corps was happy to devour. 
One company had an informal staff party on the first Friday of every month, with beer, wine, sandwich platters, chips and cookies. Mr. Newman became so experienced at blending into the background as a quiet temp that he returned to sample the feast even after his week-and-a-half assignment ended.
During this period of his life, he concluded his thoughts on the temp and free food by writing:
"Perhaps the free-food concept is turning into an obsession. I now subconsciously decide whether I like an assignment or not based on food quality and availability. Now, if I could only find a way to get free exercise club privileges."
"Several years ago, I had a very bright young man temping for me," writes Annmarie Bavosa, the director for contract purchasing and supplier diversity for Merck-Medco in Franklin Lakes, N.J. "However, each morning I would have to retrain him on the activities of the department.
"After a week or so, I said: 'Henry, you're such a smart guy. Why is it that you don't remember what we do from one day to the next'
"His reply: 'I'm a temp. I'm not paid to retain.' "
In the recession in the early 1990's, the company that for 14 years had employed Jerry Niemeier of Bayside, Queens, as manager of financial planning and analysis sold his division to another company. After the sale, Mr. Niemeier was told he was a permanent employee. 
"However, permanent lasted for only eight months," he writes. "As with a lot of people at the time, it was difficult to find a new job." 
As part of his efforts to find work, Mr. Niemeier registered with several temp agencies.
"What a shock to need to be tested after spending 14 years in corporate financial planning and analysis, four years with a major C.P.A. firm, which meant I had passed the C.P.A. exam," he writes.
"That was with the 'accounting' temp firms. I also registered with a 'technical' temp agency.
After three months, it was the technical agency that called to ask if he knew anything about forecasting and planning, because a company was looking for someone to help it in that area.
Mr. Niemeier went for the interview, thinking temp. But the interviewer began talking about benefits and vacation and Mr. Niemeier began pitching himself as a full-time employee.
He was hired as a temp, for six months. Several people worked for him. He provided guidance. He handed out raises. When the six months had passed, Mr. Niemeier was no longer a temp. He had become an employee.
He writes: "The lesson learned was, never treat an interview as a temp interview but look for the ultimate hiring as an employee.
"Today I am still with the company where I started as a temp and doing better than I would have been doing if I was retained by the old company."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%) LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



697 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Ronald Baron; 
Baron Growth Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
RONALD BARON pays little attention to brokerage firms' research when he picks stocks for his $948 million Baron Growth fund.
 "It doesn't make sense to invest money based on widely publicized recommendations of big investment firms that seem to arrive at the same conclusions at the same time based on the same information," Mr. Baron said from his office in Manhattan. 
 Such recommendations are often based on earnings reports that beat or missed analysts' estimates by a single penny in a calendar quarter, he said, or on estimates -- unknowable in his view -- of interest rates, inflation and economic growth. 
In choosing stocks, Mr. Baron estimates that he and the 14 analysts who work with him on the fund spend about 25 percent of their time traveling, to research potential purchases. "We try to understand the prospects for the business by talking to customers, competitors and suppliers," he said.
He has no patience for the complex accounting practices revealed in the recent collapse of Enron. He has a rule of thumb: "The more lengthy the required disclosures, the more difficult to understand, the less interesting the investment."
The fund returned 10.4 percent a year, on average, in the three years through Thursday, compared with an average of 7.9 percent for its group of funds that invest in small growth stocks and a loss of 10 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. It returned 21.6 percent in the last 12 months, versus a loss of 1.1 percent for its group and a 5.8 percent decline in the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Baron, 58, is the chief executive of Bamco Inc., the fund's adviser and a unit of the Baron Capital Group, which manages about $6.5 billion for institutions and individuals. He also runs the $3 billion Baron Asset fund.
He chooses the roughly 75 issues in Baron Growth among fast-growing, profitable American companies with market values of less than $1.5 billion at the time of purchase.
"We look for unique, well-managed businesses that have huge opportunities created by megatrends," he said. He defines these as long-term social and economic trends, including the growth of for-profit education and the aging of the American population.
When he finds companies positioned to benefit from long-term trends, he buys -- and then tends to hold on. The fund's annual turnover rate is just 20 percent, compared with 132 percent for all small growth funds, Morningstar said.
He tries to buy companies with a long-term competitive advantage -- ideally, one that lets the company double in size over the next three to five years. Because such advantages are rare among technology companies, he said, the fund owns no tech stocks.
To value companies, Mr. Baron takes into account their price-to-earnings multiples, using projected earnings over the next four or five years. His goal is to double his money over five years.
The fund's biggest holding is ChoicePoint, at 4.5 percent of total assets. The company, based in Alpharetta, Ga., provides identification and credential verification services for insurers and other companies; it has also been testing a way to prescreen frequent fliers to expedite their time at airports. 
The company will continue to benefit, he said, from businesses' need to screen potential employees and to identify other security risks, he said.
He started buying the stock in August 1997, and has paid an average of $19.65 a share, adjusted for splits. It now trades at $55.85. 
Mr. Baron began buying shares of University of Phoenix Online in September 2000. A division of the University of Phoenix, it offers 11 accredited degree programs in business, education, information technology and nursing for working adults. Enrollment has tripled, to 36,000, in the last two years, he said, and he expects it to exceed 100,000 in 2003.
He paid an average of $18.09 for the shares, adjusted for splits. The most recent occurred on Friday. The stock trades at $30.74.
AFTER Sept. 11, Mr. Baron added shares of Vail Resorts in Colorado and Sun International Hotels Ltd. in the Bahamas. The two resort operators were both adversely affected by the decline in travel after the terrorist attacks, he said, but he now expects them to benefit from an older, more affluent American population. Aside from its skiing business, he said, Vail is becoming popular as a summer resort. Sun International manages casinos as well as hotels. 
He originally bought Vail Resorts shares in February 1997, and has paid an average of $18.36 a share; the stock now trades at $19.60. He started buying Sun in February 1996. He has paid $24.69, on average; the stock closed on Friday at $28.33.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In buying stocks, Ronald Baron thinks long term. The turnover rate of his Baron Growth Fund is just 20 percent a year. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Baron Growth"Category: Small-cap growthNet assets: $948 millionInception: January 1995Manager: Ronald Baron since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,000 ($2,000 I.R.A.) Portfolio turnover: 20%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 10.4%Category average: 7.9% Sector breakdown Other -- 47%Financial services -- 8%Education -- 8%Business services -- 15%Stores and restaurants -- 14%Health care services -- 8% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.36% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TRENDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AGING TRENDS (69%); ACCOUNTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); BARON CAPITAL GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BARON ASSET MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RON BARON (94%) GOULD, CAROLE; BARON, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



698 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Find Home, Sweet Home, At the New Haute Gym 

BYLINE:  By GEORGE EPAMINONDAS 

 BODY:
ON a spring afternoon, Johnna Cummings was basking next to a gas-fired hearth at Clay, on West 14th Street in Manhattan, and leafing through The Face magazine. That Ms. Cummings, 32, a full-time student, chose a gym as a place to relax, drink espresso, watch CNN on a plasma screen television and answer e-mail messages is hardly surprising. Fitness clubs have morphed into ersatz homes, and their luxury services have become as much a selling point as their styles of yoga.
 "Clay is a place where you can work out and chill out," said Ms. Cummings, who spent four hours there that day, including the time she devoted to free weights and the treadmill. The former lead singer of a 90's pop group, Boy Krazy, Ms. Cummings has an Upper East Side apartment and a downtown pied-a-terre, but she prefers Clay. "It's intensely beautiful and aesthetically relaxing," she said. 
 A lifetime ago, gyms were the kind of spartan caves where Rocky Balboa would sweat it out with a punching bag. In the 1980's they became sleek health clubs populated with endless rows of Nautilus machines. In the 1990's, they added spas and juice bars. And now the newest sybaritic clubs are revved up with services such as dog walking, car washing, Botox injections and full-service restaurants. The add-ons will cost you, of course; most clubs bill extra for supplying the comforts of home away from home. 
Think of anything a luxury hotel will do, or a bevy of in-line servants, and a health club somewhere will offer the same. At the Sports Club/LA at Rockefeller Center, you can have your hair blown out ($65), your face treated with blue sea algae ($125), and then enjoy a "healing Thai chicken soup" ($8) at Pulse, the on-site Drew Nieporent restaurant.
Megagyms like the Sports Club/LA, a national chain, and Western Athletic Clubs, with branches in California and Washington, pull out all the stops. One locker-room attendant at the Sports Club/LA in Los Angeles remembers being handed a torn Tracey Feith skirt and being asked to mend it. (She did.) One woman stood naked in the locker room of the upscale East Bank Club in Chicago and asked the club's takeout restaurant to cater a dinner party for eight people. That night. (They did.)
The health club industry's research shows that members tend to work more overtime than average, which suggests why clubs offering overscheduled people one-stop shopping would have a strong appeal. At the tony Houstonian club in Houston, members can ask a travel agent to research a cycling trip to the Amalfi Coast while they're clocking miles on a stationary bike. At East Bank last month, Smashbox's spring make-up line was being showcased in the women's locker rooms, while the pro shop was staging a trunk show of vintage jewelry.
At most branches of the Sports Club/LA and Western Athletic clubs, it is now expected that cars will be washed and detailed by a valet while members work out. A cleaner will take care of laundry. And a concierge will snag tickets to a show.
Upping the ante, at Clay in New York, where orchids are deployed as though it were a Calvin Klein flagship store, a nutritionist will go to your home and replenish your pantry with healthy food, and a private chef will instruct you in the art of cooking an organic vindaloo. "I wanted to create a place where people can be nurtured," said Robin Brown, a co-founder of Clay. Ms. Brown even plans to give dinner parties for club members in her TriBeCa loft. 
Clay charges an initiation fee of $500 and monthly fees of $140 for basic services; spa, nutritional and concierge services are extra, billed to members' accounts. An executive membership at the Sports Club/LA, the top-of-the-line package, has a $1,575 joining fee and monthly charge of $265. The fee includes personalized laundry service and access to all of the gyms around the country.
Laura Aviva, 31, an events organizer who recently joined Clay, her first club, said, "I live in a tiny apartment, and the fact that they're trying to create a sense of community appealed to me." 
For years, health clubs have tantalized single people with the prospect that they might lock eyes across the rows of Stairmasters. Now they can pursue an entire courtship on premises. Jan Evans Richardson, 50, an advertising account executive and former actress, met her boyfriend, Danny Mulligan, 57, a real estate agent, by the Houstonian's pool. They followed with drinks at the Gazebo bar (at the club), dinner at the Center Court Cafe (also on premises), and soon enough, a love match was made. Now they play tennis together there and attend luncheon seminars organized by the club (Barbara Bush is the keynote speaker tomorrow). "Instead of going out on a date Saturday night we might sit by the pool, take a Jacuzzi and look up at the stars," Ms. Richardson said.
Hobnobbing is as important as crunching at the Pacific Athletic Club in Redwood City, Calif., too. It offers ski excursions to Lake Tahoe, wine trips to the Napa Valley and whale watching on Half Moon Bay. The club has a shuttle bus to ferry members on outings, and a 175-seat banquet room. Tom Cruise once staged a birthday party on the basketball court of the Sports Club/LA in Los Angeles.
Is there anything the club won't do in the name of indulgence? 
"Illegal things," said Nanette Pattee Francini, a co-founder of the Sports Club/LA. "And we don't bathe our members; they need to shower themselves."
Architecture and design are used as drawing cards, just as they are for the new Prada store or a boutique hotel. Dodd Mitchell, who designed the restaurants Balboa, Sushi Roku and Katana in Los Angeles, gave the Body and Soul gym there bamboo ceilings, calming water fountains and sleek stone showers. 
Stylistically, a schism exists between clubs that mine baroque themes (the kind of interiors that might be found on an Aristotle Onassis yacht) and those that evoke a downtown, pared-down aesthetic. In the latter camp is the new Equinox, which has touches like industrial plastic that resembles satin for the reception desk, brushed steel pendant lights and iridescent tiles by the pool. "We want to create locker rooms that are more beautiful than people's bathrooms at home, juice bars that are prettier than their kitchens, and spa services people even in the upper markets can't have in their apartments," said Paul Boardman, Equinox's executive vice president. The New York chain opened a gym in Pasadena, Calif., last year and has more planned, for Chicago and Los Angeles. 
Some people are as picky about gym decor as they are about their workout regimes. Alan Orenbuch, 47, a New York architect, switched from what he called ugly gyms to Clay -- based on the renderings alone. "Have you seen the sink details?" he asked. "They really know what they're doing."
For all their domestic flourishes, you still can't sleep in the clubs. But, guests at Ritz-Carlton or Four Seasons hotels in San Francisco, Washington and Boston have access to an adjacent Sports Club/LA. Conceivably, they could nap between hip-hop aerobics classes and an oxygen facial.
The list of added services is potentially as endless as the need to compete with one another. Might health clubs add dating services? Perhaps religious services so members can be married there too? 
The symbiosis between spas and gyms, already well-advanced in many cities, would suggest that comprehensive medical services are the next growth area. "You already have clubs delivering post-surgery rehab, cardiac rehabilitation and minor outpatient plastic surgery," said Bill Howland, research director for the International Health, Racquet and Sportsclub Association. Ahead of the trend, the Marsh, an integrated fitness center and medical clinic in Minnetonka, Minn., opened 17 years ago with an on-site cardiologist and acupuncturist. More recently, it has expanded to include pre- and post-operative rehabilitation, as well as consulting cardiologists, physiatrists and neurologists.
"People are tired of specialization," said Ruth Stricker, the founder of the Marsh. "They're looking more for a manager or somebody to listen and put it together."
Considering all the roles they play, it is perhaps not so astonishing to find that health club memberships are rarely the first thing to be dropped in unsettled economic times. For upwardly mobile types who could not get through a week without Power Pilates, forgoing exercise would be a sign of failure. "When we hit a recession, their membership isn't the first to go -- it's their house," said Ms. Francini of the Sports Club/LA.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TRANQUILLITY -- Members relax in front of a gas-fired hearth at Clay, in Manhattan, above. It is one of the sleek new gyms that provide a variety of luxury services. At the Sports Club/LA in Los Angeles, below, you can have your dog walked and your laundry done while you work out. (Roger Davies for The New York Times, above and bottom right); TO-DO LIST? WHAT TO-DO LIST? -- The valet at the Sports Club/LA washes members' cars, and there is a concierge to arrange for theater tickets. Below, one of the rooms members of Clay may relax in. Members can also have a nutritionist shop for healthy food and stock their pantry. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times, above and bottom left)(pg. 1); WHEN'S YOGA? -- On site at the Sports Club/LA in Rockefeller Center, Pulse, a Drew Nieporent restaurant. (James Estrin/The New York Times); A LITTLE INDULGENCE -- The showers at Clay, complete with orchid, left. At the Equinox, right, a Zen sense of calm and luxe prevails. (Photographs by Roger Davies for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FITNESS CENTERS (89%); YOGA (71%); POP & ROCK (69%); FAST FOOD (69%); DOGS (65%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (62%); CYCLING (60%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (57%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (54%) HEALTH CLUBS 

PERSON: EPAMINONDAS, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



699 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Road to Nevada 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Nuclear Waste on the Highways" (editorial, April 21):
 Let the country be forewarned: what awaits is a potential nightmare if we allow the Energy Department and the nuclear power industry to ship high-level nuclear waste to Yucca Mountain. 
 Over a 30-year period, we can expect and make emergency preparations for several hundred accidents in any of 43 states, at a cost to local and state governments of billions of dollars.
Worse yet, what if there is a terrorist strike? Our worst nuclear nightmares would be realized, creating an American Chernobyl.
A disaster could affect an area of about 40 square miles with contamination. Many would die. A local economy would be shattered. Cleanup in an urban area could cost $2 billion. Is it really worth it? 

OSCAR B. GOODMAN
Mayor
Las Vegas, April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (88%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GOODMAN, OSCAR B (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (68%) LAS VEGAS (NEV); YUCCA MOUNTAIN (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



700 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Where the Jobs Are 

BYLINE:  By JENNY LYN BADER; Jenny Lyn Bader is a playwright and essayist.

 BODY:
WHILE numbers may not lie, the people who crunch them sure do. It's harder than it looks. So one job sector keeps growing even as unemployment rises. In an age of accounting scandals, number-crunchers are needed more than ever. Just look at this sampling of recent classified ads: 
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. 
M.B.A., C.P.A. Must be able to report one earnings figure while simultaneously looking at another; massage numbers; lobby; move debt off books; rally stockholders; defer income to a later quarter till the end of time. Ability to name holding companies after birds of prey and action figures a plus. Should be on intimate terms with at least one cabinet member, reachable in one phone call or less and known to you as "sweetie." 5-10 yrs. experience in keeping two sets of books.
 OLYMPIC JUDGE. B.A., N.H.L.
Requires working knowledge of international relations and ice-skating contortions, ability to distinguish a triple axel from falling on the floor sideways, a firm grasp of the numbers 1 through 6. Demonstrated fluency in decimal system and in much higher math, where two gold medals can equal one. Fees and kickbacks negotiable.
CORPORATE SALES, TELECOMMUNICATIONS. B.A. in literature preferred. Creativity essential. Ability to book profits to invented companies, create swaps for imaginary services, hire fictional characters. Proficiency in arranging Illusory Public Offerings (I.P.O.'s) required.
PROFESSOR. University seeks Ph.D. aware of national grade inflation, able to give "C" paper an "A-" without grumbling. Compensation: educating new generation of number-crunchers.
ELECTION OFFICIAL. Why not use your counting talents where it counts? Background in voting booth arcana, indecipherable handwriting, mediation. In case of electoral dispute between two political candidates, official should be able to show in rigorous detail that either one was victorious, but not until months later.
FINANCIAL ANALYST. B.A. or B.S. Investment bank seeks individual able to perform business with a company in the morning, recommend said company's stock that afternoon and have a nice chat with New York's attorney general that evening.
CHILD MENSA PERFORMER.
Needed: High-I.Q. moppet to go on talk shows, attend graduate seminars and perform math tricks at parties. Child should appear utterly childlike, with wan expression and working knowledge of Fermat's theorem. Preferably conversant in Schopenhauer, with mussed hair and the vague light of genius in eyes. Parent should show that child scored 145 or higher on I.Q. test. Barring that, parent may add I.Q. scores of whole family and pretend that sum is child's I.Q. Mental health insurance not available for child or parent.
AUCTION HOUSE DIRECTOR. 
M.F.A. Should possess wide-ranging knowledge of paintings and antiquities, and of people at other auction houses. No ex-convicts please.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ACCOUNTING (77%); SCANDALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ICE HOCKEY (73%); ETHICS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); WINTER SPORTS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); ICE SKATING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); BIRDS (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS 

PERSON: BADER, JENNY LYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



701 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
For Real Estate, a Levitation Act

BYLINE:  By J. ALEX TARQUINIO 

 BODY:
INVESTORS who made big bets on real estate two years ago may be feeling smug these days. 
 Real estate investment trusts, known as REIT's, have risen more than 50 percent from their low point in March 2000, according to the Morgan Stanley REIT index. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down about 20 percent over the period. 
 While REIT's may not repeat such outperformance in the months ahead, they remain a good way to diversify a portfolio, many analysts say. REIT's own and operate income-producing real estate and must pay most of their earnings to shareholders, so they tend to distribute steady dividends. Because of that income stream, they should be considered as alternatives to bonds, according to Steve Sakwa, a senior real estate analyst at Merrill Lynch. 
"I think people that own bonds probably have to consider whether they want to own REIT's over the long term," he said. The group's current dividend yield is near 6.4 percent, according to Mr. Sakwa. By comparison, 10-year Treasury issues yielded 5.05 percent on Friday.
REIT shares trade like stocks but tend not to follow the market's path. They often outperform the market in tough times -- as they have recently -- but may decline when the stock market is strong. Like bonds, REIT's are sensitive to shifts in interest rates and may stumble when rates rise. 
Lee Rosenberg, a financial planner in Jericho, N.Y., said he expects REIT share prices to level off in coming months, "as they come closer to fair value," but he favors them for portfolio diversification. He said he was "cautiously" allocating about 5 percent of client portfolios to real estate, down from about 10 percent two years ago. 
Dee Lee, a financial planner in Harvard, Mass., said most people might be better off in real estate-focused mutual funds instead of individual REIT's, because the funds provide more diversification.
Investors who don't want to pay a manager to find the best choice, however, may begin by examining whether a particular REIT trades at a discount or premium to the value of the real estate it holds. After that, many real estate fund managers recommend examining whether the cash flow from its properties has increased over time. 
Many REIT's that own office properties trade at a 5 percent premium to net assets, said Douglas L. Barton, portfolio manager of the Franklin Real Estate Securities fund. That is half the premium for REIT's over all, including those that own shopping malls or apartment complexes, Mr. Barton said. 
He said the office sector would be in better shape coming out of this recession than it was after the downturn of the early 1990's because there is not as much oversupply this time. Nevertheless, he predicted that once the economy picked up, "it might take nine months to a year for existing office spaces to fill up with employees." 
The highest vacancy rates are in high-technology regions like Northern California, Seattle and suburban Boston, he said. 
HIS top pick is Midtown Manhattan, where the holdings of SL Green Realty, one of his favorites, are heavily concentrated. The company trades at about a 10 percent premium to net assets, he said, much higher than his estimate of 5 percent for office REIT's in general. But, he said, "we're looking for much higher growth rates from that company than from other office properties."
Mr. Barton estimated that cash flow from operations at SL Green would grow about 9 percent in both 2002 and 2003, compared with 5 percent to 6 percent for the overall office sector in 2002 and 6 percent to 7 percent in 2003. SL Green closed at $34.35 on Friday, up 11.9 percent this year.
Last month, SL Green sealed a deal to buy a Times Square building, 1515 Broadway, where Viacom is the major tenant. Stephen L. Green, SL Green's chairman, said he considered it a "core building" that would remain in the portfolio a long time.
The deal is notable because most REIT managers are delaying acquisitions until they gain confidence in the economic recovery, said Samuel Lieber, chief executive of Alpine Management and Research, which advises three real estate mutual funds. 
In the early 1990's, REIT managers gobbled up distressed properties dumped on the market by the ailing savings and loan industry, sometimes assuming heavy debt. After peaking in 1997 at premiums of 30 percent to 35 percent, shares in REIT's plunged in 1998 and spent two years in the doldrums. 
Mr. Lieber said he didn't expect a similar bust this time because premiums had not climbed as high. "I think REIT's will grow into their premiums," he said.
Vornado Realty Trust leads Mr. Lieber's list of office REIT's. Vornado operates in New York and Washington, both strong markets. Shares in Vornado closed at $43.78 on Friday, up 5.2 percent this year.
Other investors recommend Mack-Cali and Boston Properties, largely because of their concentration in the Northeast. Mack-Cali has office properties in New Jersey that benefited from the dislocation of New York companies after Sept. 11. Boston Properties is the nation's second-largest office REIT, after Equity Office Properties. Mack-Cali closed at $32.79 on Friday, up 5.7 percent this year. Boston Properties closed at $38.37 on Friday, up 1 percent this year.
SIZE does not necessarily confer advantages when the economy is struggling. The performance of Equity Office Properties, with 774 office properties in 23 states and the District of Columbia, has lagged behind that of its peer group since last fall, even though it became the first REIT to join the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, in October of last year. Two others have since been added. Inclusion in the index often bolsters a company's share price because many portfolios must invest in the index companies.
But the market has reacted negatively to the implications of the company's purchase of Spieker Properties, which has office properties in Silicon Valley, Seattle and Portland, Ore., all hurt by the tech decline.
In February 2001, Equity Office said it expected the Spieker acquisition to add 10 cents a share to its annual funds from operations, a common yardstick of REIT earnings. In response, Merrill Lynch increased its estimate for Equity Office's 2002 earnings by 10 cents a share, to $3.60. But Merrill now estimates that the REIT will earn $3.19 a share this year, including a nonrecurring 10 cents a share in the first quarter when Sun Microsystems paid a fee to break a lease. "Clearly, the Spieker acquisition created trouble for them in Northern California," Mr. Sakwa said.
Samuel Zell, Equity Office's chairman, said the deal would pay off in the long run.
Equity Office is undergoing a management shake-up. Mr. Zell assumed the added title of chief executive on April 19 after the departure of Timothy H. Callahan. In addition, the company does not have a full-time chief financial officer. 
Equity Office intends to fill both positions, and Mr. Zell says the company remains strong under his leadership. "I'm not exactly a rookie in this business," he said.
Last week, a REIT went public for the first time in three years. Shares of that REIT, Heritage Property Investment Trust, closed at $25 on Friday, the price set before trading began on Wednesday. "This is not a fabulously sexy company with great properties," Mr. Lieber said. "The fact that they were able to take it public, and even expand the size of the deal, is a positive sign for REIT's."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen L. Green, above, is chairman of SL Green Realty, a real estate investment trust. Last month, it signed a deal to acquire 1515 Broadway, on Times Square in Manhattan. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) Graph: "REIT's on the Rise"Real estate investment trusts, which trade like stocks and hold real property in their portfolios, have outperformed the stock market over the last two years. Graph tracks Morgan Stanley Reit Index, Russell 2000 and S & P 500 since 2000.(Source: FactSet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (95%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); RECESSION (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); RETAILERS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REIT); STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: TARQUINIO, J ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



702 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: BOOK VALUE; 
Talk in Your Sleep? Is the Radio Listening?

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN 

 BODY:
AT a time when headlines seem focused on pedophile priests, Enron and the economy, and terrorism and the Middle East, it would be easy to forget the technology revolution of the 1990's. Was it all a bizarre dream? 
 A new book by Richard Hunter, "World Without Secrets: Business, Crime and Privacy in the Age of Ubiquitous Computing" (Wiley, $27.95), is a sharp reminder that the technologies of the 90's are still being deployed rapidly. The collapse of dot-coms and the decline in high-technology stocks -- as well as all the other recent distractions -- have not halted a march toward a time when people are surrounded by computers, sensors, transmitters and cameras linked to extensive networks and databases. 
 Mr. Hunter, vice president and director of research for applications development at Gartner, a research group in Stamford, Conn., has a sweeping view of how this technology is unfolding, altering American society and playing out on the world stage. 
The book could have used more editing. Readers may grow weary of the italics (in some places, it seems that nearly every other word is italicized) and the repetition of material like "Hunter's Laws," a set of assertions by the author. How many times do we need reminders that "the network is an amplifier" and "when everything is known, no one knows everything"?
But the book is important -- it contains fresh thinking, a rarity these days. Imperfections in style can be forgiven.
The book offers many examples of how this new era is already invading our privacy, and in ways we haven't fully grasped. Amazon.com has altered its privacy policies to allow it to share information about customers with companies that want to sell goods and services to them. Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, did not start out doing business that way.
Using software from Visionics, the city of Tampa, Fla., has linked a database of photographs of suspected criminals with a network of cameras deployed in one nightlife district, invoking shades of Big Brother. When will the entire nation be rigged with tiny computer cameras scanning our faces?
On other fronts, Acme Rent-a-Car in New Haven equipped its vehicles with global positioning satellite systems and was able to monitor a customer as he exceeded the speed limit three times. Acme fined the customer, James Turner of New Haven, and drained the money from his credit cards before he knew what had happened. He went to court and won, but the episode showed how technology can be used for snooping in the home, the office and the automobile.
MR. HUNTER is right to argue that if Americans aren't involved in resolving these issues, the issues will be resolved without them. "The amount of electronically stored data about individuals is massive, detailed, and growing," the author writes. He adds: "We don't yet know how to manage a world in which everything can be linked to me, wherever I am."
Perhaps Mr. Hunter's most intriguing idea is that of the "network army." Such a group is similar to an old-fashioned grass-roots movement, he says, except that it is international (not limited by geography) and its members may have different agendas. Relying on the Internet, they come together to exert broad influence on a shared concern.
As explained by Mr. Hunter, this is a new kind of social, political and business structure. The world has already watched network armies on the attack at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle and the Group of Eight meeting in Genoa, Italy, and in the continuing fight by teenagers and college students against the music industry over the rights to recordings -- whether through Napster or somewhere elsewhere.
The network army examined in the most depth, however, is the Open Source movement, a loose coalition of 750,000 software programmers worldwide. Using the Internet, they contribute their software free to whoever wants it.
One significant product of the Open Source movement has been the Linux operating system, which is free and poses a challenge to Microsoft and other companies that sell software. Some Open Source programmers regard Microsoft as an evil empire.
Intriguingly, the army of the Open Source movement doesn't have a general. It has four important "influencers," like Linus Torvald, the developer of Linux, who may shape broad agendas but can't control people who aren't paid.
Below the influencers are six to eight distributors of the software and more than 200 project leaders, who manage the 750,000 true believers. "The ratio between leaders and followers is astronomically high by the standards of any business and is increasing rapidly," Mr. Hunter writes. "A key enabling factor is the use of Internet-based communications, which allows 'influencers' and other important members of the movement to transmit their messages accurately, with zero distortion, to a potentially infinite number of followers."
Microsoft drafted internal documents about how to deny the Open Source movement access to the market, Mr. Hunter writes. Microsoft's critics in the Open Source movement responded by accusing the company of attempting to choke them off, just as Microsoft had been accused of trying to kill Netscape in the Internet browser business. This time, Microsoft's power won't work as well, because the Open Source movement has few generals and few guns. There is no way to reason with it, no way to negotiate with it, and no way to take it to court, at least in the traditional sense. 
One conclusion: "Whatever you do, don't make yourself the cause that unites a network army," Mr. Hunter warns.
Just as Microsoft has a problem with a network army, so, too, does the United States. Mr. Hunter argues that Al Qaeda is an organism that the United States, an "engineered society," hasn't encountered in recent times. "Like the network army, their value systems are various, intersecting on one or more planes (for example, opposition to Israel or the United States) where they exercise significant power," the author writes. "They're international and are united by ideology, not geography."
HOW DOES authority respond to a new creature that operates by different values and systems? With its own network army, Mr. Hunter writes. He offers the example of the New York Electronic Crimes Task Force, created by the Secret Service. The Secret Service doesn't control or dominate the task force in a traditional bureaucratic sense, but rather tries to create a give-and-take among law enforcement agencies, telecommunications companies, academic experts and whoever else has expertise. Altogether, it has more than 150 members and operates as a network army combating perceived wrongdoers on several continents.
Such a task force also illustrates a major theme of the book: for the United States and other "engineered societies" to battle people using the newest technologies to pursue the oldest hatreds, they must redefine how institutions work together.
Mr. Hunter is sometimes irritating in his writing style. But he is always provocative. He gathers impressions and conversations from a surprisingly broad array of sources. He assembles this material into something approaching a coherent whole.
He mentions that "the medium is the message" without referring explicitly to Marshall McLuhan, who invented that concept. But Mr. Hunter is correct in saying that the Internet and associated technologies are a medium that is changing our world order. It is changing how people live and define their boundaries.
The availability of cheap, instantaneous and global communications is having an impact, for example, on mass opinion. Increasingly, Mr. Hunter contends, the world is seeing more fragmentation of viewpoint. Opinions are becoming deeper, narrower and more geographically distributed. Insights like that are well worth the price of admission to "World Without Secrets."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Surveillance technologies are becoming more pervasive, a new book says. Detective Bill Todd Jr., back, used a video system that monitors streets in a nightlife district of Tampa, Fla., an example in the book. (Jim Stern for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (74%); TERRORISM (73%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (67%); SPEED LIMITS (66%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PRIVACY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (53%) HUNTER, RICHARD; HOLSTEIN, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

TITLE: WORLD WITHOUT SECRETS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



703 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Why the Cardinals Kept Mum

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

 BODY:
IN 1963, Cardinal Bernard F. Law was a newly ordained priest in Jackson, Miss., denouncing segregation in the diocesan newspaper. Cardinal Roger M. Mahony was a parish priest in Fresno, Calif., serving mass at dawn to migrant farm workers. Cardinal William H. Keeler was a 32-year-old aide at the Second Vatican Council, helping to usher the Roman Catholic Church into modern times.
 The aging church leaders now trying to atone for their past handling of sex abuse cases were once bold and forward-thinking. They had entered the priesthood in the golden age of American Catholicism, a time when the church was at its most assimilated and respected. In those days, Catholic teaching on equality and social justice meshed with the conscience of the nation, and they, like many young priests, saw themselves as pioneers in a new age of idealism. 
 Their confidence was checked once the cultural revolution of 1968 began emptying seminaries and opening rifts over the church's teaching on sexuality and birth control. By then, Cardinal Law and his peers were on a management track -- and on the defensive. 
This could be another reason why so many church leaders ignored or concealed sexual abuse cases. They were so busy fending off hostile forces in society, that they neglected to root out the enemy within.
What happened to the Catholic Church in the late 60's was a bit like what the American military experienced when public opinion turned against the Vietnam War: its aura of unassailable authority crumbled. The cracks became obvious in 1968, when Pope Paul VI issued an encyclical, Humanae Vitae, reasserting the church's condemnation of contraceptives. It became a lightning rod for all the divisions simmering within the church -- separating papal loyalists from dissenting clergy, many ordinary Catholics and large segments of society.
Cardinal Law and others who became priests when the church was at the peak of its prestige suddenly felt under siege.
"There was this dream among many of us that we were going to be integral parts of a new society, that we were in the vanguard of social and economic justice," said the Rev. Frank P. Lane, 62, a vice rector of the Pontifical College Josephinum in Columbus, Ohio. "Then these other moral issues surfaced, abortion, divorce, sexual liberation, that brought back that old sense of separation."
As some of the best priests left the church to marry or explore other kinds of freedom, those who remained were charged with protecting the church, its moral teachings and its reputation. The most loyal defenders were rewarded with promotions. All 13 living American cardinals were appointed by John Paul II, and most of them also received their bishops' miters from this pope.
Like the generation of men who grew up with one expectation of a wife's role, only to be confounded by the women's movement, this generation of cardinals was prepared for a far more docile, supportive laity. Their shock when their flock grew defiant was compounded by the fact that they viewed their status as literally God-given.
The impulse to circle the wagons and fend off scrutiny, on the other hand, was all too human. "For that generation, the diocese is like a family business -- Uncle Charlie may be incompetent but you can't fire Uncle Charlie and you can't fire a priest," said Rev. Thomas J. Reese, editor of the Jesuit magazine America. "Somewhere along the line some of them forgot that parents and their kids are also part of the family."
They are the pre-Vatican II generation, born in the 1920's and 30's, when anti-Catholic prejudice was evident (the Ku Klux Klan rose up against Alfred E. Smith's 1928 presidential campaign), but also when a priest's authority was absolute in his community.
In a recent essay bemoaning laxity in the church, the Rev. James A. Kelly, 86, founder of the Fellowship of Catholic Scholars, recalled somewhat nostalgically what it was like to be a priest in America when he was young. "By World War I the Catholic pastor was the lord of his neighborhood with lifelong tenure," he wrote.
By the time Cardinal Law and his peers entered seminaries in the 1950's, the non-Catholic world was almost as deferential. Movies starring Bing Crosby, Spencer Tracy and Pat O'Brien as priests shaped popular culture. So did Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, whose TV show was one of the most popular of the 1950's, competing with Milton Berle.
Back then, priestly celibacy seemed admirable even to non-Catholics. "Celibacy for he-men like O'Brien and Tracy is clearly an act of massive self-discipline," Charles R. Morris wrote in his book "American Catholic: The Saints and Sinners who Built America's Most Powerful Church," "but one that confers an earned righteousness that sets them apart from other men."
Catholicism blended well with the anti-Communism and the churchgoing ethos of the Eisenhower era. Congress declared "In God we Trust" the national motto in 1956, the same year Cardinal Adam J. Maida was ordained a priest in Pittsburgh, Pa.
In 1960, President John F. Kennedy was elected. Catholics were almost as triumphant a few months later when John Courtney Murray, a Jesuit philosopher, was put on the cover of Time magazine. (He was considered more important than an exclusive piece on the making of the movie "Cleopatra" with Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, which ran inside.)
In 1962, the year Cardinal Mahony was ordained and Cardinal Edward M. Egan was studying in Rome, John XXIII summoned his bishops to the Vatican for the first such meeting since the Vatican Council of 1869, when Pius IX cemented papal infallibility into church doctrine.
"The Americans strode into the Vatican Council II like they owned the place -- they thought the American church was a model for Europe" said Francis Russell Hittinger, a professor of Catholic Studies at the University of Tulsa, explaining the confidence and moral certainty of those times. "The mindset of that generation was so optimistic, there was not a cloud in the sky."
CARDINAL Law and his colleagues had finished their studies for the priesthood long before the theological dissent and social change of the late 60's and 70's invaded the seminaries. When they studied for the priesthood, those topics were taboo.
"There was this unspoken fear of homosexuality," recalled Reverend Lane, who in 1961 entered a seminary that was later closed as vocations dwindled. "As a result, we were very controlled -- we were not allowed to visit each other's rooms, we were seldom allowed off campus, we couldn't go to movies or restaurants. The whole question of sexuality was repressed and denied."
Perhaps not surprisingly, the cardinals carried this tradition of silence with them as they rose in the hierarchy.
Catholics whose anger was not appeased by the expressions of regret in Rome can take some comfort that the cardinals are not going unpunished. Many will almost certainly be remembered best for their role in the worst scandal in the history of the American church.
As young men, they had seemed destined to make a mark -- only more gloriously. "Mississippi in the 1960's was all that one might imagine and more," Bernard Law wrote to his Harvard '53 classmates at their 25th reunion. "To have been part of that significant moment in our history is in itself a grace, a gift."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Swiss guard on duty at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. (Guglielmo de'Micheli) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); ETHICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FARM LABOR (73%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); CONTRACEPTION (67%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); MIGRANT WORKERS (57%) PRIESTS; SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; ETHICS; HOMOSEXUALITY 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: LAW, BERNARD (CARDINAL); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



704 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Scouting for Work, But Close to the Nest

BYLINE:  By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:
Are Americans shedding their peripatetic ways? In a recent survey, Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the job placement firm, found that just 14 percent of job seekers relocated for new jobs in the first quarter. That was the lowest level since Challenger began such tallies 16 years ago, and was down sharply from the 22 percent average of recent years. 
 There are two basic reasons for the change: choosy employers don't need to go far afield, and jumpy Americans don't want to. With more workers available, "employers cut back on sending recruiters to distant college campuses as well as the costs of flying candidates in for interviews," said John A. Challenger, chief executive of the firm. "Even when they found a desirable out-of-town candidate, they were less willing to cover his or her relocation expenses." 
 Some Americans wouldn't have moved anyway. With Sept. 11 still reverberating in their psyches, and the economy shaky, many people feel better just staying put. These days, "the last place you want to be if you lose your job is a strange new city," Mr. Challenger said.
What if people remain immovable once the economy rebounds? Mr. Challenger, for one, sees a return of 1990's-style job shortages and possibly "a repeat of the unfettered buildup of extraordinary perks, such as signing bonuses and expensive cars." Hubert B. Herring

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); EXECUTIVES (54%) LABOR; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



705 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Of College and Status 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Ivy League or Also-Ran? Does It Matter?" (Economic View, April 21), in which Tom Redburn described his teenage daughter's deliberations in deciding on a college:
 As a guidance counselor for 30 years in a highly competitive public high school that routinely sent more than 95 percent of its graduates to college, I was faced with parents who would not like my endorsement of their child's choice. 
"But that's not a good college," they would say. (Translation: That is not an Ivy League or otherwise prestigious school.) 
 Many parents were upset with me when I told their child that "it's not where you go to school; it's what you do with where you go." Mr. Redburn basically says the same thing when he writes, "It's the person, not the place, that matters."
I am glad to see the recent research showing that students who chose schools with lower admissions standards over more competitive schools make just as much money as those who attend the elite college. It proves that my thinking was in the right place 20 and 30 years ago. In fact, I can name students who attended state colleges who went on to become renowned experts in their fields. No, Harvard is not the best school for everyone.

NAOMI SCHLESSEL
Boynton Beach, Fla., April 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHILDREN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PARENTS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (57%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; SCHLESSEL, NAOMI 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



706 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Looking for Dinner in a Hurry

BYLINE:  By JULIA E. MEURLING 

 BODY:
 Overworked Americans have little time for cooking. Instead, they are choosing convenient, already prepared meals, which they eat at home. 
The average American ate 74 frozen meals last year, compared with 56 in 1992, a 33 percent increase, according to a survey on eating trends by NPD Foodworld. 
 Americans also rely heavily on restaurants for takeout meals, but the average number of takeout meals fell last year, to 70 from 72 the previous year. The decline, the first since the 1980's, was attributable in part to economic concerns, according to the survey. In the weakened economy, more people decided to forgo the convenience of takeout to save a few dollars. JULIA E. MEURLING

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Graphs track:FROZEN MEALS CONSUMED PER PERSON PER YEAR since 1993 TAKEOUT MEALS CONSUMED PER PERSON PER YEAR since 1993. RESTAURANT SALESYear-over-year change, weekly NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weekly FOOD PRICESMonthly change in consumer index PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weekly ONLINE SALESDollars in billions, weekly HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily (Sources: NPDFoodworld meal data and restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics transportation costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (88%); FROZEN FOODS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); TRENDS (87%) RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



707 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Street Fairs, Pre-empted By Sept. 11, Are Back 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
Hakim Muhammad says he does it to build experience and savings to open a restaurant or other business.
 Mike Dadaivd runs a gift shop already, but says he does it because "I have eight children, and I have to take care of them." 
 Joseph Okolie says he has never made a profit, but he does it once or twice a month to "expose Americans to African culture." 
Mr. Muhammad, with his fish and chips; Mr. Dadaivd, with his backpacks and belts; and Mr. Okolie, with his large woven baskets from his native Nigeria, were among nearly 150 vendors lining Second Avenue from 16th to 23rd Streets in Manhattan at a street fair last Sunday. 
It is once again street fair season in New York City. After an autumn in which all but 4 of the nearly 100 street fairs scheduled after Sept. 11 were canceled, New Yorkers are seeing the earliest of about 400 such events, ranging from a single block to more than 20, that are to be held through November. 
While New Yorkers are of two minds about the fairs -- some love them, others consider them a plague -- they are certainly a fixture of city life and a source of income for vendors, for the nonprofit groups that sponsor the events, for the city and for the handful of professional organizers that put fairs together.
"Most vendors are immigrants, and this is their livelihood," said Mort Berkowitz, president of Mort & Ray Productions, which organizes and runs fairs. "Very few travel to other cities."
Mr. Dadaivd, a Russian immigrant, said he works weekdays at a small gift shop he operates in Brooklyn, and then spends Saturdays and Sundays purveying his fair wares. "A good day is selling $1,000," he said as he minded his stand.
He said that he could not estimate the worth of his inventory, but that his expenses that day were the $350 fee for his spot and $155 for a rented truck to carry his goods from his father's warehouse. There are no labor costs; members of his large family work the fairs with him, he said.
He declined to discuss his revenues, but said that last year had been a losing one because the autumn season had been aborted. Previous years had allowed him to "make a living -- not save money in the bank, just a good living."
Mr. Berkowitz said that companies like his had significant losses when last season was cut short, though he declined to specify his losses. Todd Berman, president of Clearview Festival Productions, which ran the Second Avenue fair for the 13th Precinct Community Council, also would not give his losses, but said he had had to lay off his entire staff of seven full-time employees and as many as 20 part-time seasonal workers.
Others who lost money were the civic, political and charitable groups and local religious institutions that sponsor the fairs as fund-raisers. The 13th Precinct Community Council, made up of residents and businesses, took in $10,000 as its share of the proceeds from the similar fair it held last year, said Jeanne Tregre, the council's president.
She said she did not know how much this year's fair had raised. The council used last year's proceeds for expenses like a playground attendant and computer equipment for the 13th Precinct station house.
City records show that $10,000 was about one-third of the revenue from last year's fair, which came from the fees paid by the vendors. Mr. Berman said the rest of the proceeds went to expenses, including cleanup, promotion and Clearview's fee.
The city also lost money when the fall street fair season was cut short. The city gets 20 percent of the fees that a fair charges its vendors. Last year, the city's take fell to $1.4 million from $2.1 million in 2000, said Jonathan D. Greenspun, commissioner of the Mayor's Community Assistance Unit. 
The current street fair season began as scheduled last month because the police force was no longer consumed by the terrorist attack's aftermath, said Mildred Duran, an assistant commissioner.
But city residents are divided on the fairs, which have become so ubiquitous that as many as a dozen can be held on a single weekend.
Supporters call them colorful contributions to the city's street life and economy. They say the bazaars permit mom-and-pop businesses to operate with little overhead, and visitors to stumble onto that perfect piece of handcrafted jewelry or pottery, all while helping worthy groups raise money.
Critics say the fairs have lost their early charm as occasional events dominated in most cases by homemade food and crafts. Today, they assert, the fairs are mostly a traffic-disrupting glut of cookie-cutter commerce heavy with tube socks, sunglasses and other mass-produced mundanities.
In 1995, the city limited the street fairs to 400 annually, the number reached that year, Ms. Duran said.
Such matters were not the focus of Mr. Okolie and Mr. Muhammad as they offered their wares at the fair on Second Avenue, under heavily overcast skies that Mr. Berman said had kept the crowds smaller than expected.
Mr. Okolie, 36, an employee of a health club chain, said profit was not the reason he attended fairs to sell his large Nigerian baskets, which he said helped people appreciate the work of other cultures.
"It's always been a loss," he said. By late afternoon he had sold fewer than five baskets, which were priced at up to $20. His fee for his street space was $160.
Mr. Muhammad, 38, a Brooklynite, said that this was his third year doing street events during the outdoor season. He works indoor fairs in the winter. He said he was able to offset some of his losses from last year's aborted season by obtaining help from a program for businesses whose losses could be attributed to the Sept. 11 attack. 
Mr. Muhammad would not discuss his vending income, but said his costs for his fish-and-chips stand last Sunday were $200 to $300 for the food, about $225 for his space and $80 to truck in his operation. Since he was charging $4 an order, he had to sell 125 to 150 orders to break even.
Whatever the outcome, he said, he would stick with vending at fairs because it was "more satisfying" than the messenger, security and other jobs he had held in the past. And, he said, it was a "step in the direction" of opening a restaurant or store.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Dadaivd, a vendor, at a street fair on Second Avenue last week. "A good day is selling $1,000," he said. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (74%); CITIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); TERRORISM (68%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%) STREET FAIRS AND FESTIVALS; TERRORISM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



708 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS; 
Trout Are Endangered Because of the Drought

BYLINE:  By Pete Bodo 

DATELINE: HANCOCK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
As New York's drought emergency continues unabated, and the prospect of a long, hot summer continues to morph into that of an infernal, bone-dry one, trout anglers are facing a variation on that most famous of Shakespearean, existential questions: to fish or not to fish.
 With the upstate reservoirs that supply New York City only about half full (customarily, the large impoundments on the East and West branches of the Delaware River are so full at this time of year that water is spilling over their dams), city officials loathe as ever to release any more cold water than they must, and no state regulations in place to protect trout at times when they are thermally stressed, the stage is set for an ecological catastrophe. 
As disaster scenarios go, this one is pretty simple. When New York City planners had the foresight -- and imperial moxie -- to buy up vast tracts of water-rich Catskill land and create a reservoir system for the growing metropolis, they conquered and radically transformed the ecology of large river systems like those of the two waterways that meet at Hancock, N.Y., to create the Delaware River -- the East and West branches. 
Now those watersheds, which have become premier flyfishing destinations and significant contributors to the struggling upstate economy, are utterly dependent on cold-water releases from the large dams that block the rivers. The less water the rivers get, the more quickly and severely they become thermally inhospitable to the creatures that have flourished there since the dams were built.
This past week, the West Branch at Hale Eddy a few miles below Cannonsville Reservoir was flowing at 142 cubic feet a second, when the 80-year mean for this time of year is about 1,210 c.f.s. As of last week, water managers were releasing just 23 c.f.s. from Cannonsville, the minimum required during drought emergency. The irony is that the unseasonably dry weather and unusually low and warm water have created excellent early-season flyfishing, with fly hatches well ahead of schedule. But only a myopic angler would fail to recognize the alarming signals in those unusual conditions.
"If the city continues to release the minimum amount of water and forecasts for a hot and dry summer prove out, there's a real threat of a severe fish kill as early as May," said Nat Gillespie, Catskills coordinator for Trout Unlimited. "That big kill-off could be avoidable if New York City and and the D.R.B.C." -- the Delaware River Basin Commission, representing the interests of the four Delaware-river user states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware -- "can be convinced to release more cold water."
The battle between conservationists and other user groups and the Delaware water managers, principally those for New York City, has been lengthy, acrimonious and perhaps needless. After all, the city even has the vast reserves of the upper Hudson river right on its doorstep. That New Yorkers are profligate with water is clear: according to statistics compiled by Trout Unlimited, the per capita consumption in New York City is 160 gallons a person per day -- almost three times that of a resident of Boston, and about five times that of a European.
As Jim Serio, executive director of the Delaware River Foundation, said: "Normally, upstate New York gets about 45 inches of rain per year. The bottom line is that there's plenty of water for everyone, including trout."
In fact, the shortcomings and the conflicts bred by the current water management system are such that the Delaware commission has been ordered to create a new, comprehensive management plan. But that does not help the Delaware River trout in the projected drought-plagued short term. In order to survive this summer, the fish will need cold water, and they may need compassion not just of water managers but anglers too -- particularly catch-and-release flyfishers. For there is little point in releasing a fish that is going to die because it has been caught.
Trout are cold-blooded creatures that function most efficiently in water temperatures in the high 50's to upper 60's. When the temperature hits 70 degrees, rainbow and brown trout begin to suffer the effects of thermal stress, and as it rises above that critical number, their bodily functions begin to shut down. Gillespie said that studies have shown that brown trout simply cannot eat enough to sustain their body weight once the water temperature reaches 72 degrees.
Left to their own devices, trout might be able to survive such high temperatures by conserving their energy and seeking refuge in deep, shaded pools or riverbed spring seepages. But the additional stress they experience by being caught can be, and often is, lethal. This, incidentally, is why many Canadian Atlantic salmon rivers routinely are shut down when the water becomes dangerously low and warm. Although state trout managers in the United States avoid such closures, an increasing number of flyfishers voluntarily desist from fishing when the water temperature reaches 70.
You may see them next month, standing in the river holding up thermometers like Hamlet once held the skull of poor Yoric, asking themselves the question that all flyfishers now more than ever before should address.

For More Information
Some pertinent organizations that will provide up-to-date stream-flow conditions and other relevant data pertaining to the Delaware (and other rivers in New York State) are: 
Delaware River Basin Commission (http://www.drbc.net)
United States Geological Survey
(http://waterdata.usgs.gov)
Delaware River Foundation (http://www.delawareriverfoundation.com).

GRAPHIC: Photo: The upper West Branch of the Delaware near Stilesville, N.Y., showing a release of 10 percent of normal flow. (Delaware River Foundation) Map of New York highlighting Hancock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (91%); SPORT FISHING (90%); RIVERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; DROUGHT; TROUT; WEATHER 

PERSON: BODO, PETE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; DELAWARE RIVER

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



709 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Migrants Feel Chill in a Testy Europe 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: PARIS, April 27 

 BODY:
When he strolls the boulevards of his adoptive French city with his 9-year-old daughter, Belkacem Djedid senses in her a kind of loss, or maybe just a notion that she is different from the people around her. "I see it in her eyes, in the sadness there," said Mr. Djedid, an Algerian. 
 Maybe, he said, speaking by telephone from Lyon, it is the fact that her clothes are Red Cross hand-me-downs, or that he cannot afford the fancy trainers and toys that betoken Europe's prosperity, or the vacations that her classmates enjoy. "Sometimes she says, 'Why am I not like them?' " Mr. Djedid said, speaking of her classmates. "And I say that, one day, the time will come and you will be like them." 
 What basically makes the Djedid family different, though, is that they are asylum seekers, hoping to qualify as refugees. That status means that they and hundreds of thousands of others like them across Europe are denied normal lives because of a web of bureaucratic constraints and ambiguities sometimes worthy of Kafka. Now, more than ever, as it seeks to expand its own membership, the 15-nation European Union confronts a crucial decision on whether to embrace outsiders as the United States does, or reject them as intruders. 
But with rightist forces gaining ground, people like Mr. Djedid and his daughter are also the subject of a rising resentment, like that preached by the archrightist Jean-Marie Le Pen, who shocked France last weekend by earning a place in the second round of national elections for president.
The issue is a sore point not just in France. The emotive debate over asylum and immigration have led to rightist political advances in Austria and Denmark, Italy and the usually liberal Netherlands. Britain is concerned that voter apathy in forthcoming local elections will give an advantage to the xenophobic British National Party.
Last year alone about 350,000 people from such faraway places as India and Congo openly sought refugee status in Western Europe, according to United Nations figures.
Many claim instant rights to housing, education, health care and welfare checks, yet they are denied the up-by-the-bootstraps right to work that, by contrast, has always underpinned the immigrant's hope for access to the American dream. 
That flow adds to the untold millions settling in Europe illegally and legally, going back to the 1960's and 1970's when people from Pakistan or Turkey or North Africa were embraced as cheap labor only to outstay their welcome.
European nations generally limit or even outlaw the kind of immigration that once attracted waves of Irish or Italians to the United States, so people wanting to escape to a new life in Europe cast themselves as asylum seekers instead. 
In Britain and Germany, new legislation is under debate to regulate the inflow. 
On Thursday, the European Union tried to draw up a code harmonizing the way Europe copes with the situation, which a British minister referred to as the "swamping" by outsiders, while liberalizing some of the myriad laws ensnaring asylum seekers.
But after Mr. Le Pen's first-round upset, said Kay Hailbronner, an expert on immigration at Konstanz University in Germany, any moves to liberalize European practices seem to be subject now to "more restrictive tendencies."
In some ways, Europe's practices have contributed to the reaction. Mr. Djedid, for instance, cannot legally work while his application for political asylum is being processed. For many asylum seekers, that means a life of idleness, perceived by right-wing Europeans as evidence that foreigners are leeching onto their welfare systems. 
In Britain, tabloid newspapers routinely inveigh against "bogus" asylum seekers out to bilk the social systems and gain unearned prosperity.
Yet conversations in recent days with asylum seekers and experts in France, Germany, Switzerland and Britain suggest that asylum seekers do not have it easy in a continent that has progressively reduced their right of access.
"There's no soft touch," said Neil Amos, a spokesman for a British group that helps asylum seekers find work. Voters for Mr. Le Pen obviously disagree. 
Variations abound in how European countries treat asylum seekers. In relatively poor Greece, for instance, asylum seekers may work as soon as they apply for recognition as refugees, but they receive no welfare checks. 
In prosperous France, Britain and Germany, where unemployment is high, fugitives receive benefits, but their path to a job is littered with restrictions, some of the bizarre. 
For example, Erik Muradian, now 18, moved with his family in 1993 from Armenia to Frankfurt to escape the wreckage of the former Soviet Union. He was refused refugee status and is now applying for residence rights on humanitarian grounds. 
His mother and father both may work, although their jobs in Germany are not highly paid; back at home, by contrast, she taught music and he worked as an engineer. By contrast, Mr. Muradian and his sister Ella, 17, may not work.
Frankfurt's social affairs office, where Mr. Muradian picks up a $200 welfare check every month, keeps telling him to find a job. But the office that deals with foreigners tells him he is not permitted to work, he said. 
So he spends his days playing soccer as a midfielder with a local team and hanging out with other foreigners. "I want to work as a salesman in an office, but I'm not allowed to," he said.
Ursula Sinderman, an adviser at a charity called Workers Well-Being, said, young men like Mr. Muradian are caught "in a devil's circle." Particularly in what was once East Germany, she said, where asylum seekers tend to live in segregated homes, "people can see they are unemployed and say, 'Look at them taking everything from us. They come here to our social state just to cash in.'
 "But these are people who are motivated to find a new life but the law condemns them to inactivity," she said. 
Differences in the way that the various countries of Europe handle the right of asylum seekers to work fuel "asylum shopping" where fugitives look for the best place to settle. For many, that place is apparently Britain.
It allows asylum seekers to work after only six months, a luxury unheard of for people like Mr. Djedid and Mr. Muradian. That is evidently one reason so many asylum seekers try to spirit themselves into Britain through the Channel Tunnel on a perilous, high-speed journey as stowaways on passenger and freight trains.
Mr. Djedid in Lyon wants to put down his roots in France. He came to France, he said, as the director of an Algerian cultural institute in 1998, and simply stayed on, not wanting to return to the war in Algeria that has raged between secular authorities and militant Islamic foes.
Every two weeks, he said, he gets about $140 to feed his wife and daughter, who live with him in a small, two-room apartment in a refugee center in Lyon. They share a kitchen with a Sudanese family. 
He does not pay for the apartment, or for full-coverage, state-provided health care or for schooling for his daughter, Hadjar. 
Neither, he said, does he work illegally, as many asylum seekers do, in menial jobs like dishwashing in restaurants.
"I don't want any trouble," said Mr. Djedid, 37. "I don't want anything to influence my application for asylum. But it's very, very difficult. If my wife needs something or my daughter needs something, I cannot give it to them."
Another case is that of Hadas Woldeghiorgis, a onetime guerrilla fighter who fled Eritrea in 1990, helped by smugglers in Sudan who gave her false papers that got her as far as Frankfurt, where foreigners make up a quarter or more of the population.
But since then her application for asylum has gone unresolved. While she has been allowed to find some work under laws permitting asylum seekers to work after one year, she must seek the permission of the authorities for every job she takes to ensure that she does not take work from a German or from a foreigner with greater rights.
She has not been permitted to leave Frankfurt without permission. "We have been here for 12 years," said Hani, her 18-year-old son. 
He is a high school student who has grown up with the same aspirations as his well-heeled German classmates. "All my friends go on vacation," he said. "They can go anywhere. I can't." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Erik Muradian, who moved from Armenia to Frankfurt in 1993, is still not allowed to work. (Alan Cowell/The New York Times); Belkacem Djedid left Algeria for France, where he and his daughter, Hadjar, 9, now face rising xenophobia. (Guillaume Atger/Editing, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); POLITICS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ASYLUM (POLITICAL); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISCRIMINATION; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (58%) COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LYON, FRANCE (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); DENMARK (90%); AUSTRIA (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) EUROPE; ITALY; AUSTRIA; DENMARK; NETHERLANDS; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; INDIA; CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



710 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Recovery? It's Here Somewhere; 
Economists Look for Signs in Storefronts and Even Bars

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
If you think the weather has been wacky this spring, consider the economy. One week it seems to be rebounding, the next week the signals are dismal. Manufacturing is up. No, it's down. Housing is strong. No, it's weak this month, but was even stronger last month than anyone thought.
 Economists, who have a lot in common with weather forecasters, are either cheery or dreary; often they alternate between the two moods day by day, or even minute by minute. They do seem to agree that New York City has not yet emerged from the recession. But when it will recover remains a matter for dispute (and economists love disputes). 
 As they wait and debate, they are keeping their eyes on some crucial sectors and early warning signals that you may be hearing a lot about in the months ahead. These are the places where you might see signs of recovery first and areas that must rebound if the city's economy is to bounce back. 
For starters, Wall Street: its revenues, deals, trading volumes and stock prices. Advertising in general, help-wanted ads in particular. Temporary employment agencies.
Tourism-related indicators, like hotel occupancy (back up) and room rates (still down). Retail sales (mixed). The moods of consumers and executives, as measured by confidence surveys.
Real estate -- including office buildings, co-ops and apartments for rent -- is being watched, as is the city budget.
And, of course, there are the hard-to-measure but easy-to-spot economic indicators, like empty storefronts on Fifth Avenue or the bar scene on the Upper West Side.
Average people and economists can probably agree on the most important measure of economic health: jobs. If you feel that you could find a new job tomorrow, the economy is booming. If you are worried about spending months out of work, the economy is bad.
The problem with focusing only on employment is that, for the most part, it is a lagging indicator. Companies are slow to lay people off when the economy turns down, and slow to hire them again even after business picks up. 
One exception is the market for temporary jobs, which are leading indicators on the way down and on the way up. "We're usually three months ahead of the curve," said James A. Essey, president of the TemPositions Group of Companies. There are no signs of a surge yet, he said, "but it's not getting worse."
Help-wanted ads are sending a similar signal; they have basically been flat since November, according to the Conference Board, a business research group. Over all, advertising remains weak, as reflected in the poor earnings of publishing companies.
Employment in New York City peaked last spring and has been declining ever since; about 135,000 jobs have disappeared, at least some because of the aftershocks of Sept. 11. Still, the losses slowed in March and the total drop is just 3.6 percent, because the city has more than 3.5 million jobs.
On a historical basis, even a year of declining employment is a mere blip. During the bleak years of the 1970's, employment in the city dropped for seven years, as more than 650,000 jobs disappeared -- about 17 percent of the employment base. Similarly, between the end of 1988 and early 1993, employment dropped by about 442,000, or 12 percent.
Then there is the dreaded "double dip," which occurred in the early 1960's in New York. After a bad year for jobs, 1962 showed improvement, all of which was wiped out in 1963 as the economy sputtered again.
Some economists worry that could be happening again. One of them is Frank Fernandez, chief economist for the Securities Industry Association, Wall Street's trade group. "This is one of those times I want to be wrong," he said last week.
Wall Street itself is not in great shape, and that is bad in a city where financial services and real estate generate about 30 percent of all yearly income, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The stock market, which had seemed to be rebounding earlier in the year, has been falling for five weeks. Companies are not selling much stock, or hiring investment bankers to help with mergers.
Individual investors, already shell-shocked by the two-year stock market meltdown, are now further discouraged by revelations that the game was rigged against them by companies like Enron and by "analysts" who were really just shills for their firms' corporate clients.
The securities firms are surviving because they have cut costs -- employment on Wall Street is down by at least 20,000 since August. "We think we bottomed in the first quarter," Mr. Fernandez said, but signs of recovery are "very spotty."
The data he is watching most closely are Wall Street revenues, because if those pick up, it will mean business is improving. So far this year, however, revenues have continued last year's pattern of decline.
Part of Mr. Fernandez's gloom stems from the city's budgetary problems, which he and others fear will lead to a sharp erosion in New Yorkers' quality of life. "The sad part is that businesses and individuals don't really need much encouragement to leave New York City at this point," he said. "Things don't look too good; we're west of a rock and east of a hard place."
One way to figure out if people are abandoning the city is to look at real estate. A new report prepared by Miller Samuel Inc., the appraisal firm, for Insignia Douglas Elliman, found that the average price of an apartment in Manhattan edged up 1 percent in the first quarter of 2002, and remained 10 percent below last year's (very high) levels. Sales sped up. Meanwhile, rents fell by 10 percent to 20 percent.
Interpreting the housing market can be tough, especially in New York City, where relatively few people own their own home.
"The fact that New York is getting price increases while the economy is down suggests the glass is half-full," said Jason Bram, an economist at the New York Fed. "A pessimist would look at it and say housing's a lagging indicator." Still another way to look at it is to note the disparity between rents and prices, which suggests that people are still willing to make long-term commitments to the city, he said.
The office market is a different story. Vacancies, which are much higher than last year, jumped in February but only edged up in March, according to Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist for The New York Stat, a newsletter on the local economy.
Consumers have continued to spend, which economists contend has helped keep the downturn relatively mild. In New York, especially, consumer confidence plunged after Sept. 11, but seemed to rebound as the most dire predictions about the future failed to come true.
But on Friday, a national survey found that consumers were becoming more pessimistic again. On the other hand, the federal government announced that the national economy fared better in the first quarter than most analysts had expected.
The good news/bad news syndrome may well continue for a while; economists did not become confident that the 1991 recession had ended (in March of that year) until December 1992. 
Meanwhile, like most of us, economists have their own informal ways of gauging the economy, like counting the empty storefronts in their neighborhoods. Ken Goldstein, the chief economist at the Conference Board, suggested watching apartment rents -- and bars -- on the Upper West Side. "If they are selling more beer out of bars on Amsterdam Avenue," he said, "things must be starting to pick up."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Kolomatsky/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (87%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (87%); WEATHER (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); RETAIL SALES (51%); PUBLISHING (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: TEMPOSITIONS GROUP OF COS (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, FRANK; EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



711 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: If This Is the Swap Meet, Then It Must Be Monday 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: HANFORD, Calif. 

 BODY:
The spring-green almond and pistachio trees in this Central Valley town about 35 miles southwest of Fresno are bursting with new life. So is the swap meet.
 Spring is the time when the marquetita -- otherwise known as el swap meet -- is in bloom, displaying the breadth of human creativity in a staggering array of inexpensive goods. From Visalia, Porterville, Selma and dozens of other communities they come, seeking caps, sandpaper, Mexican soccer socks, Pink Miracle tennis shoe cleaner, tropical love birds (four for $100) and cockfighting videos. 
 Every Monday, rain or shine, the former site of stockyards outside town is transformed into an instant city, where aluminum taco carts become sidewalk cafes and table-soccer games become ad hoc amusement parks. 
"It's a tradition -- you go to church on Sundays and the flea market on Mondays," said Luis Ramos, 30, whose four Foosball tables are a major draw. "The guys come to meet girls and basically gather. It's like the plaza."
The country's roughly 2,500 swap meets -- including flea markets, as they are known in the East -- are like fingerprints, with slight variations. The character of el swap meet is distinctly Mexican. 
Reymond Morales, 64, a janitor from Visalia, was strolling down an avenue of wedding dresses and cowboy hats the other day. In his hand was a fruit cup brimming with watermelon, cucumber, jicama and cantaloupe sprinkled with chile powder. 
"You can't get this there," Mr. Morales said, referring to the mall. "This is real Mexican."
While swap meets are flourishing all over, they take on special significance in places like Hanford, population 45,000. Here in Kings County, farm laborers make up roughly a quarter of the work force and the unemployment rate hovers at 16 percent, with Spanish spoken in well over half the households. A quarter to a half of the 200 to 300 vendors feature Mexican goods.
"Migrant workers often don't have telephones, or subscribe to newspapers, and many do not have cars," said Carol Whiteside, president of the Great Valley Center, a policy group in Modesto. "At the swap meet, they come together and network." 
The Hanford meet will grow even larger next month, as goods emerge from post-spring-cleaning garage sales and migrants begin working the fields after a winter lull.
"You see everyone at the remate, especially on a holiday," said Dolores Gallegos, a Hanford City Council member, using a Spanish term for swap meet. "The superintendent of schools, the prison warden, the teachers. The youth are always there, buying CD's."
On a recent morning Vanessa Vega, 18, was with her mother, Candelaria, eyeing Mexican coconut candy. Marisol Urbina was sizing up a skinny denim skirt. Maria Peres, 32, was shopping with her cousin Lupe Peres, 23, from Sacramento, stocking up on limes, tomatoes and nopales -- fresh cactus paddles, a springtime delicacy. Maria Peres is a fruit sorter who moved to the Central Valley from Guanajuato three years ago. 
"We come here to walk," she said, clutching a plastic bag plump with produce. "It's the same as home."
To Michael Peter Smith, a professor of community studies and development at the University of California at Davis, swap meets like the one in Hanford represent "a new kind of public space, a grass-roots form of urban revitalization." In agricultural communities they become town squares, American zocalos, where violet lingerie might share space with an '83 pickup truck alternator or a bouquet of silk roses.
"It's not just about buying and selling," Professor Smith said. "It's the sounds, the smell, the vitality of street life and the sentient memory of place."
The swap meet also represents a parallel economy. Though California requires vendors to buy resale licenses and pay sales tax, the lack of overhead and the ability to bargain can result in cheaper merchandise. The Hanford vendors pay $6 for a space, $7 for a covered one, for the day. 
"It's a large part of the local economy that doesn't get reflected in employment statistics," said Ted Bradshaw, an associate professor of community studies at the University of California at Davis. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Louis prepares nopales -- fresh cactus paddles -- for sale at a swap meet in Hanford, Calif.; Marisol Urbina and her sister Ali check out clothing at the swap meet, known as the marquetita or remate, which is held every Monday. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (88%); RETAILERS (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); CITIES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); SOCCER (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); FARM LABOR (70%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (68%); LABOR FORCE (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (61%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (60%); PRISONS (50%) FLEA MARKETS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) HANFORD (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



712 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: South Koreans Invest In Propping Up the North 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DORASAN, South Korea 

 BODY:
With barbed wire blocking railroad tracks here, most tourists on the "Security Tourism Train" see this brand new station as the end of the line.
 But South Korean officials now plan to help North Korea remove land mines and lay tracks across the Demilitarized Zone this summer. Under this new construction plan, freight trains will rumble through here to North Korea this fall, the first inter-Korean rail traffic since the Korean War, half a century ago. 
 While Bush administration officials make little secret of their wish to see North Korea's repressive government collapse, South Korea is taking a different tack. Seoul is pushing joint business and infrastructure ventures, hoping that economic engagement will moderate North Korea's behavior, build economic dependency between the Koreas and make life easier for North Korea's largely destitute population. 
In early April, South Korean companies opened North Korea's first car assembly factory and North Korea's first Internet lottery game. In May, representatives of five South Korean communications companies plan to visit North Korea to compete for a half-billion-dollar cellphone project. This fall, a South Korean sports entrepreneur plans to start flying hundreds of South Koreans to North Korea's capital, Pyongyang, to play at North Korea's only 18-hole golf course.
As smaller companies weave links with North Korea, inter-Korean trade rose 15 percent during the first quarter of this year over the same period the year before. Last year, South Korean companies sent 203 technicians north to work on joint-venture projects, more than double the previous year's level. In addition to 450,000 South Koreans who have visited North Korea's Mount Kumgang resort since 1999, about 6,200 South Koreans are visiting North Korea yearly. Only 270 visited yearly in the decade before 1998, the year South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, adopted a "sunshine policy" toward North Korea.
"The main objective for us is to make sure North Korea does not collapse," Han Duk Soo, the main economic adviser to President Kim, said in an interview here. "If they collapse, we know it will mean a huge cost to South Korea."
To revive North Korea's economy, Jeong Se Hyun, South Korea's unification minister, recently proposed that South Korea "should transfer industrial technologies to the North without royalties."
To help prop up its northern neighbor, which has a population of 23 million, South Korea recently shipped north 100,000 tons of corn. In May, it expects to complete shipment of 200,000 tons of free fertilizer and to start sending 300,000 tons of rice. In March, South Korea's government agreed to pay a monthly subsidy of $1.4 million to keep alive the tourism project at Mount Kumgang, a major foreign exchange earner for the North.
On Sunday, after an 18-month hiatus, Mount Kumgang is to be the site of a fourth round of reunions of family members separated by the Korean War. Courting South Korean public opinion, North Korea is allowing the reunions to be televised live for the first time.
On May 7, economic delegates from both Koreas are to meet in Seoul to negotiate the opening of railroad and road connections, including a road to the Mount Kumgang resort. With the two Koreas technically still at war, land links would be a major breakthrough for the peninsula.
This sudden thawing of inter-Korean relations comes after North Korea responded with alarm to American battlefield successes in Afghanistan and President Bush's subsequent listing of North Korea, Iran and Iraq as an "axis of evil."
"North Korean people are starving and hopeless," President Bush told South Korea's state-run KBS television before coming here in February. Mr. Bush added that he doubted that Kim Jong Il, who inherited leadership of the Communist nation from his father, "represents the will of the North Korean people."
In one of a series of harsh reactions, North Korean radio said: "For the Bush gang to dare talk about changing our system is intolerable."
Some people here believe that Washington's tough talk has pushed North Korea to restart overtures to the South, hoping to defuse American confrontation with a new show of moderation.
"North Korea likes strong talk," said Son Man Bong, a South Korean Army veteran, on a recent visit to this town where he was wounded during the 1950-53 Korean War. Then, with a giggle, he made his hands quiver as he added, "But out of sight, they are scared."
For its part, South Korea is not putting all its eggs in an economic harmony basket. With an eye to North Korea's one-million-strong military force, South Korea recently decided to spend $4.5 billion to buy 40 F-15K fighter jets, enough air power to knock out North Korea's rusty Soviet-era air force in the course of an afternoon.
Despite this expensive military insurance policy, South Korea is perhaps North Korea's best benefactor, economic partner and business promoter. When North Korea held its First International Computer Software Expo in Beijing in mid-April, the South Korean government sent a seven-member mission to explore areas of joint cooperation.
Constantly trying to draw North Korea out of isolation, South Korea wants to invite North Korean athletes to the Asian Games in Pusan in September and to the Asian Development Bank annual assembly in Shanghai in May. The United States opposes North Korea's participation as an observer in the bank meeting, charging that North Korea still supports terrorism.
With the path to economic cooperation littered with unfulfilled promises by North Korea, the most striking recent development was the April 5 opening in the North Korean port of Nampo of a $55 million car assembly plant by a group of investors associated with the Unification Church of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon. Pyeonghwa Motors Corporation, in a joint venture with a North Korean company, opened the plant, which is capable of a yearly production of 20,000 Siena cars, a compact designed by Fiat Spa.
There are only about 3,000 passenger cars in North Korea, compared with about 9 million in South Korea, which has roughly twice the population of the North. Pyeonghwa, which means peace in Korean, plans to build three gas stations and North Korea's first car dealership.
"This country was so closed that nobody, not God, not Buddha, could get in in the last 50 years without a visa," Park Sang Kwon, president of Pyeonghwa, told reporters in Seoul, where the company has its headquarters. "Nobody, even in my own company, believed it was possible to build an automobile in North Korea. Only I believed.
"We are bound to succeed," continued Mr. Park. "There are no unions, low labor costs. The workers are very clever, very quick to learn, and they are harshly controlled by their superiors."
Such joint ventures signal a departure from North Korea's ruling philosophy of juche, or self-reliance. In an important policy speech in March, North Korea's prime minister, Hong Song Nam, said that his country needed to "improve trade and economic cooperation and widely conduct joint ventures and collaboration with different countries and international organizations."
From Seoul, Dr. Han, the economic adviser, said: "I think they are very much interested in promoting investment from the South. As we move along with these seemingly small projects, confidence can be built."
The biggest economic investment with a realistic chance for success is the North-South railroad. Russia, in pressuring North Korea to restore rail links to the South, hopes to make the Trans-Siberian Railroad a money maker by shipping goods from South Korea to Europe. Korean authorities estimate that shipping containers by rail from South Korea to Europe would be twice as fast and one-quarter the cost of shipping by boat.
Last winter, a team of about 200 Russian railroad experts surveyed the state of North Korea's rail network. Simply to rebuild the railroad on North Korea's east side, which links directly to Russia, would cost $2.2 billion. With South Korea and Russia expected eventually to finance rail rebuilding through North Korea, the three countries are planning a railroad conference in the Russian Far East in September.
With work now completed to the Demilitarized Zone on the west coast here, South Korean authorities have decided to start a seven-year, $1 billion project this summer to build 80 miles of railroad on the eastern side of South Korea to the Demilitarized Zone.
After meetings in Pyongyang with Kim Jong Il in early April, a South Korean negotiator reported that North Korea's leader said the western rail link, connecting with this station, would be ready by October and that an eastern rail link should also be re-established. Mr. Kim also said a road should be opened across the Demilitarized Zone to Mount Kumgang, a link that could help make tourism there profitable.
Mr. Jeong, the unification minister, predicted that rail and road work could start within the Demilitarized Zone as soon as May.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dorasan station may not be the end of the line for long under plans to lay track in the Demilitarized Zone. (Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times) Map of Korea highlighting Dorasan: South Korea's northbouund railway line stops at Dorasan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (78%); TRAINS (78%); ROYALTIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); KOREAN WAR (72%); LANDMINES (72%); TRENDS (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); LOTTERIES (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); POLITICS (67%); GOLF (65%); MOUNTAINS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



713 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-17

Arabs in Disguise Kill 4 In West Bank Settlement
Three Palestinian gunmen dressed as Israeli soldiers cut through the fence of an Israeli settlement in the West Bank and attacked residents, killing four, including a 5-year-old girl, the Israeli Army said. 1

After Israel's biggest military offensive since 1967 in the West Bank, settlers seem to have the upper hand. Some have fled, but as their numbers grow, many Israelis, afraid of suicide attacks, identify with them. 1

Rampage Killings Stun Germans
People across Germany struggled to comprehend a murderous schoolyard rampage of the type that many believed occurred only in the United States. Confounding the country's reputation for having some of the toughest gun restrictions in the world, police said that the attacker had acquired his weapons legally. 13

British Hobbyists Convicted
Eight members of a group of British tourists pursuing their hobby of plane-spotting were convicted in a Greek court on charges of spying and obtaining national secrets. 4

Musharraf Vote Allowed
Pakistan's Supreme Court ruled that a referendum to extend the presidency of President Pervez Musharraf is constitutional and can proceed. 8

South Korean Candidate
Roh Moo Hyun, once a dissident, was nominated presidential candidate of South Korea's governing party. 15

NATION CHALLENGED 18-19

U.S. Weighs Blueprint For Toppling Hussein
The Bush Administration, developing a potential approach for toppling Saddam Hussein, is contemplating an air campaign and ground invasion of Iraq, with estimates of 70,000 to 250,000 troops needed. Any offensive probably would be delayed until early next year, in order to create the right military, economic and diplomatic conditions, officials said. 1

Senior Taliban Leader Sought
Officials and tribal elders in Pakistan said that Americans had joined Pakistani troops in raids on their tribal areas to kill or capture Jalaluddin Haqqani, a senior Taliban military leader. The reports came a day after Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said the United States military would not allow fighters from Al Qaeda and the Taliban to take cover across Afghanistan's borders. 18

The Taliban and Al Qaeda are long gone from northern Afghanistan, but the factions of the Northern Alliance that are now in charge still have not quite buried their differences. 18

NATIONAL 22-39

American Catholics See Turning Point for Church
Roman Catholics around the country say they have a sense that the sexual abuse scandals involving clergy members are a moment of irrevocable change, either personally or for the church at large. 1

Pope John Paul II's denunciation of sexual abuse of youths as a crime and a sin is said to have warned bishops worldwide to tighten procedures. 47

Changes in Student Loans
The Bush administration is seeking to ease its budget shortfalls by squeezing $1.3 billion from a federal student loan program. 22

Casino Brawl Turns Deadly
Four people were found shot to death after fighting erupted between motorcycle gangs at a casino in Nevada. 24

E.P.A. Plan Rebuffed
In developing President Bush's proposal to reduce air pollution, the White House rejected a more stringent alternative from the E.P.A. 26

OBITUARIES 50

EDUCATION

Mayor to Donate His Papers
Columbia University will announce that David N. Dinkins, former mayor of New York, will give his official and personal papers to the university. 48

NEW YORK/REGION 41-48

Mentally Ill Face Neglect
Many privately run homes for the mentally ill in New York City are places of misery and neglect, like the state institutions they replaced. 1

Election Strategy in New York
Democrats seeking control of the House have focused on three Republican freshmen in the New York metropolitan area. 42

Chess 49
Weather 51
Cong. Vote 42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (84%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GUN CONTROL (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); AL-QAEDA (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); SEX SCANDALS (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (66%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



714 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL: JETS NOTEBOOK; 
Puzzle Is Completed With Webster Signing

BYLINE:  By JUDY BATTISTA 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., April 27 

 BODY:
The Jets filled the final hole in their defense today when defensive tackle Larry Webster agreed to a one-year contract for $675,000.
 Webster, who was a backup with Baltimore last season, chose the Jets over Washington and could start next to Jason Ferguson. 
 Webster, 33, had 17 tackles in 15 games last season. He has started 36 games in his 11-season career and has been suspended three times for violations of the N.F.L.'s substance-abuse policy. 
Webster will almost certainly represent the final significant move in the Jets' extraordinary reshaping of their defense. They have now signed seven defensive free agents, five of whom are likely to start next season.

A Son, but No Extension
There is little to trouble Wayne Chrebet now, not when he passes around a photo of his 5-month-old son, Lukas, not even when he discusses his intriguing contract situation. Chrebet, who is entering his eighth season with the Jets, will be in the final year of his contract and will count $4.4 million against the salary cap. That would seem to scream out for an extension, but there have been no negotiations and no indication from the Jets about their plans. 
Chrebet said he hoped to play out his career with the Jets, but he was untroubled by the lack of talks.
"I signed a four-year extension, and in my mind I plan on playing the four years," Chrebet said. "I'd like to have the security of knowing I'll have a job here for the next five years. I know they had other pressing issues. I'll wait my turn. I don't think there's a rush. I'm not threatening to hold out. I don't blame them. It's not like I'm not going to make a good living this year."
The obvious question is whether the Jets think Chrebet, who is coming off what he termed a disappointing season, is a correct fit. Until the final quarter of last season, Chrebet was nearly invisible in the version of the West Coast offense devised by Paul Hackett, the offensive coordinator. Chrebet's 56 catches were the fewest he has had except for the 1999 season, when he missed five games because of injury.
Chrebet said that because the Jets did not significantly change their offense through free agency and the draft, that indicated they were generally content with their personnel. Chrebet said that while he would prefer to get a contract done before the season so that he was not distracted by negotiations, he could also envision playing out his deal. He said he would like to learn what other teams thought of him by testing free agency.
"That might hurt them," Chrebet said. "I might have a career year. Other people appreciate my play in the league. What are you going to do? My obvious first choice is playing here."
Chrebet, who grew up in New Jersey as a Giants fan, jokes that he and his friend Michael Strahan, a defensive end for the Giants, have often talked of playing together. But Chrebet also said he felt particularly settled now, with the birth of his son.
"I'm just so happy all the time," Chrebet said. "My life is set -- I've got a great job, got a great wife, I have an adorable son."
The Jets have several big decisions to make this season. Center Kevin Mawae and guard Randy Thomas are entering the final years of their contracts, and Curtis Martin has two years remaining. Enormous cap numbers are involved in the contracts. Coach Herman Edwards said he did not worry about contracts, but immediately after the draft he and General Manager Terry Bradway said they would discuss their course of action in coming meetings. 
"The feeling of the organization is we want Wayne to be here, and we're going try to do everything to keep him here," Edwards said. "There is no timeline for the organization. I expect it will get done. I hope he has a great year. Who says it's not going to get done before the season?" 

Fabini Goes to His Right
Offensive tackle Jason Fabini received a new contract this year. Now he has a new position, too. Fabini, who has played left tackle for the last two seasons, is playing right tackle. The second-year player Kareem McKenzie will play left tackle.
Fabini, who did not object to the move and said he had no problem with it, played right tackle as a rookie. The Jets consider him their best run blocker. Because the Jets frequently run to the right, they feel Fabini is best used on the right side.
That is quite a move, considering the Jets gave Fabini a five-year, $17.5 million contract with a $6.5 million signing bonus, the kind of money usually reserved for the guy who has to protect the quarterback's blind side. Instead, McKenzie, a third-round selection, will be trusted with Vinny Testaverde's back. It is the latest shake-up on a line that allowed just 19 sacks last season but lost its coach, Bill Muir, and left guard, Kerry Jenkins, in the off-season. 
"If we can't stop the guys from sacking the quarterback, we'll go back," Coach Herman Edwards said. 

Hello, Manhattan
The Jets, who used to stay at a hotel in New Jersey the night before home games, will stay at the Marriott Financial Center in Lower Manhattan next season. The owner, Robert Wood Johnson IV, had the idea to move the team back to the city to show the organization's commitment to helping the local economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (66%); TERRORISM (59%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (56%) FOOTBALL; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%) NEW YORK JETS 

PERSON: BATTISTA, JUDY; WEBSTER, LARRY; CHREBET, WAYNE; FABINI, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



715 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: A Fitting Tribute to the Victims 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A United Way report showing that indirect victims of Sept. 11 are struggling to obtain services because of narrow eligibility requirements confirms the tragedy's widespread impact (news article, April 23). 
 Settlement houses and other community organizations have seen people all over the city in distress. 
Counselors report steep increases in teenage pregnancy; children acting out; adults with sleep and eating disorders; and apprehension due to economic hardships from job loss and reduced work hours. Organizations that have served communities report unprecedented signs of anxiety.
The mayor's proposed budget cuts would shrink the safety net that was in place on Sept. 11 to help people cope. The mayor and the City Council should use all revenues like those identified by the Independent Budget Office to ensure continuity of services.

EMILY MENLO MARKS
Executive Director
United Neighborhood Houses
New York, April 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MAYORS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); CHILDREN (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); CITIES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGET CUTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); EATING DISORDERS (55%) TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) MARKS, EMILY MENLO; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



716 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
GETNICK, IRVING M.

 BODY:
 GETNICK-Irving M. Of Freeport, New York, passed away at the Jewish Home and Hospital in New York City on April 26, 2002. He was the loving and beloved husband of Zita, who passed away on April 30, 1993, after fifty-four years of marriage. Mr. Getnick completed his undergraduate education at the City College of the City University of New York, graduating with honors in government and law. He was a graduate of Harvard University Law School and admitted to the New York Bar in 1937. An early leader of the political reform movement in New York City, he helped build and was president of the largest Liberal Party Club in Brooklyn, New York. A strong believer and advocate for pro bono service, Mr. Getnick taught business law and was pro bono counsel to a minority business development organization in New York City. Mr Getnick had a longtime involvement in synagogue affairs, having served on the Board of Trustees and as president of the Men's Club of the Baldwin Jewish Center, Baldwin, New York. An avid reader, his favorite book was his family bible. He was honored by the Baldwin Jewish Center for his leadership by example. An active trial lawyer, he developed a broad practice, and in 1983 was joined by his son, Neil, in establishing the firm, Getnick and Getnick, currently with offices in Manhattan. His son, Michael, a lawyer in Utica, New York, is counsel to the firm. 
His high abilities in the practice of law were matched by his love and devotion to the profession he so respected. He is survived by his sister and brother-inlaw, Ethel and Irving Minsky. His brother, George, and sister, Sylvia, predeceased him. He has an adoring family of three children: daughter, Stefanie Getnick; son and daughter-in-law, Michael and Susan Getnick; son and daughterin-law, Neil Getnick and Margaret Finerty; four grandchildren, Brian and Kevin Getnick, Courtney and Katherine Finerty, and many nieces and nephews. The bonds and devotion he shared with his parents, Hyman and Becky Getnick; brother and sisters; his special relationship with his motherin-law, Clara Ellman; sister-in-law, Connie Hoffman and brother-inlaw and sister-in-law, Julius and June Ellman have enriched the lives of everyone in the Getnick and Ellman families. "To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your G-d." His life inspires and guides us. His favorite saying was: "It is one thing to be blessed, but another to know you have been blessed." All of his family, loved ones and friends know they have been blessed by his life. A funeral service will be held at Gutterman's Funeral Home at 175 Long Beach Road in Rockville Centre, New York, at 12 noon, on Sunday, April 28, 2002. Memorial contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York City, New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIGION (78%); FAMILY (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PRO BONO LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (76%); LAWYERS (76%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); CANCER (50%) 

PERSON: GETNICK, IRVING M. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



717 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadow of Indian Point 

BYLINE:  By ALICE KENNY 

 BODY:
THE newlyweds worked two, sometimes three jobs, piecing together a down payment to buy a home in the village where they grew up. Finally last month, cash in hand, the couple, Johnna and Martin Foster, made an offer on a sturdy brick ranch but lost the house to a higher bid. So when they found a two-bedroom cape a few blocks away, they offered the full asking price, $265,900. Another bidding war. But this time they won. 
 While bidding wars have become typical in pricey Westchester County, what is surprising is that the Fosters' competition took place in Buchanan, home to Entergy Corporation's Indian Point nuclear power complex. Buchanan, a one-and-a-half-square-mile village in the town of Cortlandt, whose borders push into the Hudson River, gained national prominence Sept. 11 when an American Airlines jet passed over the power plant following the river's dark outline en route to the World Trade Center. 
 Most people living within 10 miles of the plant worry about a terrorist attack, and believe they would be unable to evacuate, according to a poll taken last month by the Riverkeeper environmental group. Residents, however, are staying put and outsiders seem to view the area as an attractive place to live. Demand for real estate outpaces availability. Patriotism, fatalism and market forces appear responsible. 
The same forces fueling the hot Westchester housing market affect the market around Buchanan. The search by New York City residents for more affordable housing puts pressure on Westchester. Low interest rates -- a little more than 7 percent for a 30-year mortgage -- also spur buyers' interest. And the lack of land to develop in Westchester creates a market where the demand for housing, any housing, far exceeds supply.
"Everybody thinks Buchanan's going to slow down and it hasn't," said Carole Kope, president of the Westchester Board of Realtors and the Fosters' sales agent at Coldwell Banker in Yorktown Heights. "Houses come on and they're gone." 
Valerie Leis, an associate broker at Coldwell Banker Perry Kennedy in Croton-on-Hudson, said: "It used to be that people would say, 'I like the house but not the kitchen, let's keep looking.' Now they say, 'It's got four walls and a roof, let's buy it before someone else does.' " 
For Mrs. Foster, 32, having a family and lifetime friends just down the road outweighed her fears about Indian Point. "Yes, it poses a danger but that's not something that's going to steer us away from staying here," she said. "This is our home. We don't want to be pushed out."
While Buchanan's relatively affordable housing allowed Mrs. Foster to stay in her hometown, New York City's robust real estate market continues to push city dwellers into the suburbs, depleting Westchester's inventory. Last month the average home for sale in Manhattan cost $920,000 compared with $760,000 the year before, according to Rismedia in Manhattan. The average single-family Westchester house sold for around $470,000, according to Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service figures. In Buchanan, single-family houses sold for an average of $205,000, according to the service.
Moving from Manhattan began as an economic decision for Justin Edelson, 26, and his fiancee, Elizabeth Hires, 27. Tired of paying $2,010 per month for their cramped Chelsea one-bedroom apartment, the couple began house hunting. Two weeks before the terrorist attacks, they found a $375,000 three-bedroom colonial house on an acre of land in Crompond, a hamlet in the town of Cortlandt, roughly five miles from Indian Point. The couple closed the deal in November, ignoring warnings from friends and families about the house's proximity to the power plant.
"I felt it was important to remain committed to the greater New York area," Mr. Edelson said. "I happen to believe that there is no place any more or less safe than any place else. Anything can happen at any time."
Steve Clausen, 33, a lifelong Buchanan resident, shares Mr. Edelson's point of view. He put his three-bedroom colonial house in Buchanan on the market in August and two months ago bought a lakefront property in the adjoining community of Verplanck. 
"Where else am I going to go?" Mr. Clausen asked. "I'm not going to pick up my family and move 2,000 miles away where it would be safe or 150 miles away and get nasty radiation burns and die of cancer. I'd rather die quick, I guess."
The terrorist attacks have not spurred an exodus from Buchanan and nearby communities. Nearly the same number of houses was up for sale in the area and took the same amount of time to sell last month as in March last year. Last year 111 houses in Buchanan, the surrounding town of Cortlandt, Peekskill and Yorktown were on the market, an average of 159 days. Last month 108 houses were for sale, staying on the market an average of 160 days.
At 11 one recent morning, Angela Lanni, a broker with the Jefferson Valley office of Houlihan/Lawrence, pushed an Open House sign into the lawn of a four-bedroom colonial in an upscale development in Cortlandt Manor. By 3:30 p.m. that day she received a full-price offer of $559,500. The next day another full-price offer came in. In 1994 when the sellers, Lori and Dominick Peraglia, bought the house they paid $289,000.
The Peraglias sold their house to buy a bigger one just down the road, not to escape the power plant situated less than five miles away. Before Sept. 11 they had planned to move across the county to Katonah. "Our commitment to staying is a direct result of Sept. 11," Mrs. Peraglia said. "It showed me what's really important, our wonderful friends and wonderful neighbors."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A house on McKinley Street in Cortlandt looks across Route 9 to the Indian Point nuclear power plant. Inset: A house on Gallagher Street in Buchanan. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); TERRORISM (73%); AIRLINES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ATOMIC ENERGY; TERRORISM; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY) 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: KENNY, ALICE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) BUCHANAN (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



718 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3225 words

HEADLINE: Big-City Paydays At 'Farmer Mac' 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN 

 BODY:
DURING one particularly nasty agricultural recession, as farmer after farmer was forced to abandon the land, Congress reached out to help, creating a company to offer them easier credit, the same way it had made mortgages cheaper and more plentiful for millions of homeowners.
 Fourteen years later, this obscure little company, which still depends on government guarantees, has turned into one sweet honey pot -- though not for the intended beneficiaries. What Congress publicly set up to help the country's farmers has quietly been used by its officers and directors to help themselves. 
 The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, traded on the New York Stock Exchange and known as Farmer Mac, barely makes the cut of the nation's largest 2,000 companies, ranked by market capitalization. It has all of 31 employees. Nonetheless, its chief executive, Henry D. Edelman, last year hauled home salary and stock options conservatively estimated at $1.8 million. Drawing increasingly lavish pay packages, Mr. Edelman, a former Wall Street investment banker, controls $27.6 million worth of Farmer Mac stock, even after selling $2.8 million worth since last summer. 
Farmer Mac's directors, entrusted to keep management in line, themselves got a piece of the action in 1997, when they began awarding themselves options. The 15 board members, all politically connected and including five presidential appointees, sit atop average holdings valued at $816,249. Nine have made millions more selling shares.
Without spending a dime buying stock, insiders now own 13 percent of the company -- all from stock option and restricted stock grants. An additional 2.63 million shares are available for grant, so insiders could end up with 35 percent without further authorization.
That's not all. Farmer Mac's health is somewhat dicey, and it operates with the barest of financial cushions beyond standards set by regulators.
"When I hear stories like this, I wonder how many more of these there are," said Charles Lewis, executive director of the Center for Public Integrity in Washington. "This is why you have such skepticism about government, that you can create something like this and allow it to run rampant, something with $4 billion in obligations and $15 million in reserves."
Mr. Edelman does not see it that way. "I always thought Farmer Mac was a great story," he said. If he and other executives are making money, he said, "it's a result of the way management has guided the company." 
Farmer Mac is the country cousin of two much better-known government-sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Always far bigger, and growing by the day, they have spawned a cottage industry of critics who deride them as costly examples of government do-goodism that could backfire on taxpayers if their implied government guarantees were ever tested.
Just last week, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned of systemic risks posed when the public sector underwrites business activities that mainly benefit the private sector -- especially if investors, creditors and others who do business with them fail to scrutinize transactions because they assume that the government will step in should the deals misfire. Government-sponsored enterprise debt, including guarantees on mortgage-backed securities, now exceeds the size of the Treasury market, government statistics show.
But almost none of that furious debate ever centers on little Farmer Mac, whose ambitions are just as big and business practices even more troubling. Many sophisticated people have never heard of it.
"It is under most people's radar," said W. David Hemingway, a Farmer Mac director.
The company seems to like it that way. Jerome G. Oslick, the $1-million-a-year general counsel for Farmer Mac, agreed to answer only questions submitted in writing. After many requests, Mr. Edelman granted a phone interview and then cut it short. And when Mr. Oslick was asked to deal with queries Mr. Edelman could not get to, he snapped, "I've worked four 10-hour days this week and I'm not sticking around." He later sent written replies.
Mr. Edelman initially agreed to be photographed, saying he'd "be flattered," but his office later reported that he was too booked.
Farmer Mac was born in 1988, part of a larger bailout for the farm industry. The nation's farmers were reeling from years of double-digit interest rates that had cost many their farms. They wanted the government to help them obtain long-term, fixed-rate agricultural loans.
The loans didn't come directly from the government. Instead, Farmer Mac bought agricultural loans made by lenders and repackaged them into tradable securities. Just as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac helped to increase the supply of low-priced mortgages by giving lenders a quick way to move them off their books, Farmer Mac's job was to build up the secondary market for agricultural loans. 
Back then, Mr. Edelman was a 39-year-old investment banker at Paine Webber whose firm was being paid $66,000 a month by Farmer Mac's board to help get the concept up and running. A lifelong New Yorker and lawyer by training, he had never spent much time on a farm. But by April 1989, the board had settled on him as Farmer Mac's president.
"Henry has received quite an education," said Stan Forbes, a retired peanut farmer who was part of Farmer Mac's first management team. "He's learned not to wear hiking books with deep cleats on livestock farms." He and his colleagues recall vividly how on one fact-finding trip to a dairy farm, Mr. Edelman insisted on helping with the artificial insemination of a cow. When he next saw the director who owned the cow, he asked about her, and the director, Bill Mainer, could not resist kidding Mr. Edelman that the cow had died, felled by the Rolex watch an autopsy discovered inside her.
UNDER its original charter, Farmer Mac handled only the safest loans, mortgages issued by banks that agreed to retain the riskiest 10 percent; it was a sleepy, money-losing business.
So, in 1996, amid talk that Washington might pull the plug, Farmer Mac instead persuaded Congress to loosen some rules that were keeping it from growing. It also talked Congress into delaying new risk-based capital requirements that had been in the works since 1991. The repeatedly delayed rules will take effect only next month.
In the meantime, Farmer Mac made the most of its freedom.
It reported its first profit in 1996 and has improved earnings every year since. Wall Street analysts pitch the stock as a "toddler" Fannie or Freddie, invoking two names that have made fortunes for investors. 
Farmer Mac does enjoy many of the same perks. It is exempt from most state and local taxes. Most of all, it pays just over half a percentage point more than the United States Treasury when it borrows.
But all that was not enough to ensure success. Initially, the company strove to issue a new bundle of standardized farm loans every 60 days. But unlike residential mortgages, farm loans are idiosyncratic. And when they trickled in too slowly to meet the goal, the company embarked on a high-wire strategy of borrowing first, lending later. The better its name recognition, Farmer Mac figured, the lower its cost of capital would be.
AT first, according to public filings, Farmer Mac plowed the extra cash into the highest-grade short-term investments, so it could shift money into farm loans as opportunities arose. But each year, Farmer Mac has assumed more risk in its investments. For instance, a footnote to the 2001 financial statements shows $166 million of preferred stock lodged in assets. Even a mere 5 percent drop in the value of those holdings could dent the scant $15 million equity cushion the company has before it would have to invade its minimum capital mandated by regulation.
This borrow-big "Field of Dreams" strategy has often prompted Farmer Mac to stray from its mission. In 1998, when two-thirds of its assets had drifted into preferred stocks, bonds and other nonfarm investments, mostly securities, the General Accounting Office criticized Farmer Mac in a report to Congress. Since then, Farmer Mac has lowered the figure to 45 percent, though it is still far higher than both Fannie's and Freddie's.
To increase returns, the company also finances many of its long-term obligations with cheaper short-term funds -- never a stable situation.
These days, nearly 70 percent of its debt financing comes from roughly $2.3 billion worth of commercial paper that rolls over every eight days, on average. To minimize risk, the maturity and yield of assets and liabilities should generally match. But most of Farmer Mac's assets are illiquid multiyear mortgages. Farmer Mac has no bank lines to draw down if the commercial paper market were to grow skittish. And by Farmer Mac's own acknowledgment, its prized government guarantee would be of no use in a squeeze.
If Farmer Mac had created a thriving secondary market for agricultural loans, none of this might matter. But that dream is still elusive. 
Even critics allow that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have created some value for homeowners by buying loans from banks, repackaging them into securities and selling them to investors, a process known as securitization. Long-term money flows from public investors to homeowners, and institutions in the middle can keep making fresh loans.
Farmer Mac started securitizing loans in earnest in 1996. But since 1998, when the collapse of a hedge fund called Long-Term Capital Management unnerved the markets, making investors extremely choosy, Farmer Mac has held more securities than it has sold. The situation was supposed to be temporary, according to Farmer Mac's 1998 annual report, but $1.6 billion of securitized loans, representing 82 percent of Farmer Mac's outstanding mortgage-backed securities, are still on its books. 
In fact, of the fee income generated by its guarantees that Farmer Mac reported as earnings, a substantial portion was money it paid itself -- 25 percent in 1999 and 19 percent in 2000 -- ostensibly to guarantee loans that never left its possession. The company would not disclose the comparable figure for 2001.
Farmer Mac has done well on Wall Street, which prefers earnings derived from fee income to those derived from more volatile interest-rate spreads. On Friday, its stock closed at $43.99, nearly 27 times trailing earnings.
But Fannie Mae, which has also had to eat its own baking on occasion, has fared even better. It has always applied conservative accounting practices, never describing as fee income the portion of income it receives for guaranteeing the securitized loans on its books. As of April 2001, when new accounting rules took effect, Farmer Mac has had to adjust to the same standard.
FARMER MAC has also diversified. When investor demand for its securitized loans cooled, it offered loans to hobbyists and part-time farmers. And it unveiled a popular product that extends a guarantee to banks on loans that never leave their books. Banks love it. For a maximum half-percentage-point annual fee, and one-fifth the regulatory capital they would otherwise need, they have no downside and keep all the profit on the loans.
These liabilities, delicately described in Farmer Mac's public filings as "long-term standby protection commitments," are off-balance-sheet obligations, and Farmer Mac now has $2.1 billion of them. They could just as easily be called "put options," because they give Farmer Mac's customers the right to "put back" bad loans to Farmer Mac.
Some of the biggest customers for these promises are lenders affiliated with Farmer Mac's directors. John Dan Raines, one of four members of Farmer Mac's audit committee, is a director of AgFirst, which received $213.3 million of these commitments last year. Paul DeBriyn, another audit committee member, is chief executive of AgStar, which received $94,700. Under stock exchange rules, audit committees must have at least three directors who have no business ties to the company unless the board deems the link immaterial. In its written response, Farmer Mac minimized the conflict.
For all the risky business practices, Farmer Mac has remained fairly immune to the few voices in Congress and the executive branch that have found fault with it over the years.
Its most stubborn critic has been Representative Richard H. Baker, a Louisiana Republican who heads a House subcommittee charged with overseeing government-sponsored enterprises, the so-called G.S.E.'s. Having seen the damage done to his home state when savings and loan institutions used government-insured deposits to venture into risky businesses, he has sought to rein in Farmer Mac and the other G.S.E.'s, without much encouragement from others on the House Financial Services and House Agriculture Committees. 
In 2000, after Mr. Baker proposed overhauling government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac swamped Congress with donations. He soon lost every one of his co-sponsors, according to an aide, and could not get legislation out of his subcommittee.
Farmer Mac's spending on political gifts and lobbyists pales next to that of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. But Farmer Mac found ways to play ball besides calling on friends in the farm belt. In 1989, it hired Thomas R. Clark to handle government and public relations. Mr. Clark had been an aide to Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who was, and still is, a powerful member of the Agriculture Committee.
That relationship came in handy in 1995, when Farmer Mac's relief package died and Senator Lugar salvaged it by tacking it onto other legislation. 
In December, Mr. Clark retired from Farmer Mac a rich man. He has made $5.2 million just cashing in most of his options.
Individual shareholders, confined to the "C" class of stock, have no say in the company's affairs. Voting power is held entirely by the financial institutions that own "A" and "B" shares. 
Of those, the biggest is Zions Bancorporation of Salt Lake City, which sells more loans to Farmer Mac than any other lender and has entered into interest-rate swaps with Farmer Mac that, at current rates, favor Zions. Despite those and other financial entanglements, Mr. Hemingway, as executive vice president of Zions, serves on Farmer Mac's compensation committee -- though the proxy notes that he deliberated but "did not vote upon management compensation decisions." 
Because the company ends its fiscal year in May and because the options it grants executives vest quickly, much of what shareholders glean from the proxy is too late to be of much use. Proxies arrive in April in time for annual meetings in June. By then, two-thirds of all the options listed in the proxy have already vested. 
And when these options are described, Farmer Mac suggests a very conservative value for them, assuming that they will have an expected life of five years, when executives have 10 years to use them, understating their probable value by at least 25 percent.
Farmer Mac has always been a good directorial gig. It is part time; it is a chance to serve the president without having to move to Washington, and, unlike most presidential honors, it pays. Of the five presidential appointees, whose average age is 70, four were chosen by Bill Clinton and one by Ronald Reagan. All are described in the proxy as farmers, but other credentials probably had more to do with their ascension to the board. 
One director, C. Eugene Branstool, as chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, delivered the votes that put Bill Clinton over the top at the 1992 convention. Another, Lowell L. Junkins, managed his winning campaign in Illinois the same year. 
A third, Clyde A. Wheeler, is described in the proxy as a public affairs consultant. His former employer, the Sun Company, once described him as one of the oil industry's "most effective" lobbyists. According to Mr. Clark, Mr. Wheeler won a slot on the Farmer Mac board in 1994 after Bob Dole, the Senate majority leader at the time, told the Clinton White House that none of its other nominations would budge until Mr. Wheeler, a Republican, was added to the list.
LAST summer, President Bush got around to naming two of his candidates, Grace Trujillo Daniel and Fred L. Dailey. Their appointments are awaiting Senate confirmation. Ms. Daniel was chief deputy appointments secretary to Pete Wilson, the former governor of California. Mr. Dailey, Ohio's agricultural director, was pushed by Gov. Bob Taft in recognition of the fact that Ohio was the most populous state that President Bush carried in 2000, after Texas and Florida. 
Farmer Mac has been benefiting from low interest rates and a stable farm sector. But should the business environment change, it is hard to know how much of Farmer Mac's many guarantees, on and off the books, might turn into i.o.u.'s.
As of the latest quarter, the percentage of delinquent loans was 2.3 percent, just shy of the high of 2.6 percent reported a year earlier. But the company's definition of "delinquent" has shifted often. For instance, in late 1998 the company volunteered that past-due loans that were "in the process of collection" were not counted as delinquent. Last year, the company's language in public filings implied that all past-due loans were delinquent. Mr. Oslick, Farmer Mac's general counsel, said "the substance" of the definition had not changed in recent years.
Expanding the business so rapidly may also be masking trouble in the loan portfolio, because loans usually take a few years to sour.
Reserves, which are supposed to cushion the company against future loan losses, were a mere $15.9 million at the end of 2001. That means that Farmer Mac will have to recover at least 73 percent of the $59.6 million of the loans that have already soured -- a tall order -- or it will not have anything left to deal with other problems that emerge in its $4.5 billion in outstanding obligations.
It could increase reserves. But as of now, Farmer Mac has only that $15.5 million equity cushion over its minimum capital set by regulators.
FARMER MAC says that its reserves are adequate, and that the long-awaited risk-based capital requirements will not materially affect it either. 
Mr. Edelman, who has been known to answer tough questions from investors by looking at his watch and announcing that he has another meeting to attend, said the government was adequately shielded from trouble in the portfolio by its $137 million net worth. "We already have a lot of private equity capital at risk and they lose all their money before the government loses a penny," Mr. Edelman said. 
But even John R. Dahl, a cattleman who was its first chairman, said Farmer Mac's reason for being just might be fading. "One of the reasons for Farmer Mac was double-digit interest rates," he said. "But interest rates came down." Besides, he added, "there are getting to be fewer and fewer people in agriculture."
Two investors who shared those doubts participated in the conference call Mr. Edelman had on April 19. They said they had repeatedly pressed "*1" on their phones and received confirmation that they were in the queue to put their questions to management.
Their turn never came. After entertaining a few questions from friendly stock analysts and investors, Mr. Edelman cut off the call moments after a woman intoned, "There are no other questions at this time, sir."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Money & Business section on Sunday about the business practices of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, also known as Farmer Mac, misstated the amount charged by Paine Webber to advise the company in 1988. The retainer guaranteed Paine Webber $200,000 for four months' work, not three, making the monthly payment $50,000, not $66,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry D. Edelman, chief executive of Farmer Mac, left Wall Street and joined the company in 1989, not long after it was created by Congress. (Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation)(pg. 10); (Photodisc)(pg. 1) Chart: "Treasury Rival"Debt issued or guarenteed by government sponsored housing entities now exceeds that of the U.S. Treasury. Treasury Debt (excludes debt held by Federal Reserve and nonmarketable securities): $2.4 Trillion Housing agency debt or guarentees Debt issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank: $1.9 Trillion Mortgage-backed securities guarenteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: $1.5 Trillion (Source: Treasury Department)(pg. 10) Chart: "A Boon or a Bane?"Many critics say these government-sponsored corporations, which indirectly subsidize mortgages, are unnecessary and may cost taxpayers plenty if their implied loan guarantees were tested. But they remain politicallly popular. THE BASICS: YEAR FOUNDEDFANNIE MAE: 1938FREDDIE MAC: 1970FARMER MAC: 1988 THE BASICS: CHIEF EXECUTIVEFANNIE MAE: Franklin D. RainesFREDDIE MAC: Leland C. BrendselFARMER MAC: Henry D. Edelman THE BASICS: EMPLOYEESFANNIE MAE: 4,500FREDDIE MAC: 3,500FARMER MAC: 31 THE BASICS: INITIAL SHARE PRICE with splitsFANNIE MAE: 96 cents (in 1970)FREDDIE MAC: $3.31 (in 1989)FARMER MAC: $1.50 (in 1993) THE BASICS: CURRENT SHARE PRICEFANNIE MAE: $79.00FREDDIE MAC: $65.20FARMER MAC: $43.99 THE BASICS: MARKET CAPITALIZATIONFANNIE MAE: $78.6 billionFREDDIE MAC: $45.4 billionFARMER MAC: $0.5 billion THE BASICS: SPREAD OF DEBT SECURITIES OVER 10-YEAR TREASURIESFANNIE MAE: 66 basis pointsFREDDIE MAC: 67 basis pointsFARMER MAC: 77 basis points THE BASICS: TOTAL GUARANTEES ON AND OFF BALANCE SHEETFANNIE MAE: $1.3 trillionFREDDIE MAC: $948.4 billionFARMER MAC: $4.2 billion THE BASICS: IMPLIED GOVERNMENT GUARANTEEFANNIE MAE: $2.25 billionFREDDIE MAC: $2.25 billionFARMER MAC: $1.5 billion THE BASICS: OPTION GRANTS AS PERCENT OF SHARES OUTSTANDINGFANNIE MAE: 2.6%FREDDIE MAC: 1.3%FARMER MAC: 12.0% THE BASICS: ASSETS AT YEAR-ENDFANNIE MAE: $800 billionFREDDIE MAC: $617 billionFARMER MAC: $3 billion THE BASICS: ASSETS IN AREAS NOT RELATED TO ITS MISSIONFANNIE MAE: 11%FREDDIE MAC: 20%FARMER MAC: 45% THE BASICS: SOURCE OF REVENUEFANNIE MAE: Guarantee fee income -- 15%; Interest income -- 85%FREDDIE MAC: Guarantee fee income -- 23%; Interest income -- 77%FARMER MAC: Guarantee fee income -- 37%; Interest income -- 63% ACCOUNTING: POLICY ON BOOKING GUARANTEE INCOME PAID TO ITSELF ON SECURITIES HELD ON ITS OWN BOOKSFANNIE MAE: Has not booked this income.FREDDIE MAC: Does book this income.FARMER MAC: Does book this income, but cannot on deals completed after April 2001 to comply with new accounting rules. ACCOUNTING: AUDITORFANNIE MAE: KPMGFREDDIE MAC: Was Arthur Andersen, now PriceWaterhouseCoopersFARMER MAC: Was Arthur Andersen, now Deloitte & Touche FINANCIAL SAFETY: RESERVES FOR BAD LOANS AS OF DEC. '01FANNIE MAE: $806 millionFREDDIE MAC: $801 millionFARMER MAC: $15.9 million FINANCIAL SAFETY: NONPERFORMING LOANS AS OF DEC. '01FANNIE MAE: $3.7 billionFREDDIE MAC: $7.2 billionFARMER MAC: $58.3 million FINANCIAL SAFETY: EQUITY CUSHION OVER MIN. REGULATORY CAPITALFANNIE MAE: $1 billionFREDDIE MAC: $821 millionFARMER MAC: $15.4 million FINANCIAL SAFETY: AVERAGE ROLLOVER TIME OF SHORT-TERM DEBTFANNIE MAE: 60 daysFREDDIE MAC: 39 daysFARMER MAC: 8 days FINANCIAL SAFETY: SHORT-TERM DEBT AS A SHARE OF TOTAL DEBTFANNIE MAE: 45%FREDDIE MAC: 45%FARMER MAC: 70% POLITICAL SPENDING: SPENDING ON LOBBYING 1997 THROUGH APRIL 2002FANNIE MAE: $30 millionFREDDIE MAC: $19 millionFARMER MAC: $400,000 POLITICAL SPENDING: SPENDING ON SOFT MONEY, GIFTS AND POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES, 1989 THROUGH APRIL 2002FANNIE MAE: $4 millionFREDDIE MAC: $6 millionFARMER MAC: $127,000 (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Center for Responsive Politics; Mercer Human Resource Consulting; Company filings)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BONDS (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); ETHICS (67%) WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (91%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%) FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP 

TICKER: AGM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%)

PERSON: JERRY LEWIS (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%) COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; EDELMAN, HENRY D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



719 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Antitrust Laws an Issue In Airline Alliances

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
IT is a curious paradox that the world's airlines, which are a primary enabler of the global economy, cannot become global companies themselves. Many are international, but they are not truly global. While most corporations are free to set up shop around the world, airlines are hobbled by regulations that restrict where they can fly.
 But with their customers continenthopping more often, the world's major airlines have moved to circumvent these restrictions by forming international alliances. Three groups -- Star, SkyTeam and Oneworld -- have carved up the globe, linking airlines in the United States, Europe and Asia into giant networks that can carry passengers from Alpina, Mich., to Brussels, or from Toulouse, France, to Savannah, Ga. 
 The alliances vary in size and degree of integration but nearly all are involved in code sharing -- offering seats on one another's flights -- and allow passengers to earn frequent flier points and elite status on their home carrier when flying with alliance members. Members also offer reciprocal access to their airport lounges and in many cases have moved their operations into the same terminals to ease connections. 
In January, after the Transportation Department demanded that they give up valuable landing and takeoff rights at Heathrow Airport outside London, American Airlines and British Airways, two founding members of Oneworld, abandoned their second attempt to win an exemption from U.S. antitrust laws so they could combine their operations across the Atlantic.
The two airlines and the six other Oneworld members, including Iberia, Cathay Pacific and Lan Chile, insist that they will increase their cooperation, but some analysts are skeptical. They think that American and British Airways will have no choice but to link up with new partners, which could break up Oneworld. Without the antitrust exemption, which the key members of Star and Skyteam have, American and British Airways cannot coordinate pricing and scheduling and combine reservations and ground operations -- cost-cutting measures that are the main attractions of an alliance to airlines.
As for customers, what they want in a global alliance, said Paul Matsen, senior vice president for alliances at Delta, is easy connection by linking schedules and lounges, and global passenger recognition. 
A report issued by the Transportation Department in October 2000 concluded that alliances have led to new passenger traffic and sharply lowered fares.
For example, traffic between Birmingham, Ala., and small cities in Europe nearly doubled between 1995 and 1999 and fares declined 34 percent. Traffic more than doubled between Portland, Ore., and Europe while fares fell 33 percent, the Transportation Department says. 
The alliances have also made it cost effective for airlines to fly new routes, or to expand service on existing routes. Delta and Alitalia, two members of the SkyTeam alliance, started code-sharing on a flight between Atlanta and Milan this month, a route neither airline considered popular enough to fly alone. 
The alliances began in the early 1990's, when Washington and the big domestic airlines wanted to liberalize the scores of bilateral agreements that restricted landing rights abroad. But most foreign governments feared that more competition would undermine their flag carriers.
Negotiations with the Netherlands produced a novel compromise. Washington agreed to exempt Northwest Airlines and KLM from antitrust laws, allowing them to combine their operations across the Atlantic, if the Dutch government would open its airports to any American airline.
The deal became the model for "open skies" agreements between Washington and more than 50 countries. Antitrust immunization has been granted to several carriers, including United Airlines and Lufthansa, which formed the Star Alliance with 13 other airlines, and Delta and Air France, which belong to the six-carrier SkyTeam. 
Antitrust exemption is now seen as crucial to the success of an international alliance because it allows the airlines to coordinate their schedules and fares, combine operations, pool revenue and offer volume discounts to corporations.
That is what American and British Airways now lack. But the airlines insist that Oneworld remains competitive. "From the service perspective, we feel we are fully competitive with the other alliances," said David Cush, vice president for alliances at American.
This month American began selling seats on flights operated by Swiss, the new airline that emerged from the bankruptcy of Swissair. Swiss will also sell seats on American flights and may soon join Oneworld.
Analysts say that airline partners will gradually become more deeply enmeshed, making it much harder to switch alliances.
"I don't think we have reached the point of no return," said Chris Tarry, an airline analyst with Commerzbank in London. "Until we do, anything can happen." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (56%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



720 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Fed Ponders What to Do If It Runs Out Of Bullets

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER spending 2001 confronting the first recession in a decade and the economic aftershocks of Sept. 11, Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve took some time a few months ago to ponder the possibility of another crisis.
 What options would be open to the Fed, they asked themselves at their meeting in January, if the economy suffered another blow at a time when the official interest rates controlled by the central bank were already approaching zero? 
 It was not an entirely academic question. Japan has been dealing with just such a situation for several years, with prices falling, the economy stalled and rates just a notch above nothing. 
The Fed itself has pushed official rates in the United States to their lowest level in four decades, with no assurance that the nascent recovery will continue -- and with any number of threats hanging over the outlook, including a spike in oil prices and the risk of further terrorist attacks.
If the worst happened, officials fear, the Fed would quickly run out of monetary policy ammunition, because it cannot push interest rates below zero, a self-evident limit known to economists as the "zero nominal bound." Should the economy become so weak that it experiences deflation -- a general decline in prices -- even holding interest rates steady amounts to tighter monetary policy.
To understand why, consider how economists look at interest rates during normal times. Right now, the Fed's benchmark federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks is 1.75 percent. That is what economists call the nominal rate. The inflation rate, depending on what measure is used, is somewhere in the same vicinity. 
Subtracting the inflation rate from the nominal rate yields the "real" interest rate, a better measure of the effect on the economy than the nominal rate. In this example, the real rate is around zero.
But what if prices are falling? In that case, inflation is, arithmetically speaking, negative. So if the nominal rate was 1 percent and the deflation rate was 1 percent, the real interest rate would be 2 percent.
In such a case, the economy could become prone to a deflationary spiral, in which a lack of demand, falling prices and paralysis in nominal interest rates lead to more restrictive financial conditions, weaker demand and further downward pressure on prices.
Senior Fed officials began looking in earnest at this dire, if remote, possibility at a conference in Woodstock, Vt., in October 1999. They decided to take it up again last fall, after Sept. 11, and they devoted much of the first day of their two-day meeting in late January to the topic.
They did not come to any firm conclusions on how to deal with such a situation. But they generally agreed that the best approach was to do everything possible to avoid letting the economy slip into a deflationary funk, even if that meant cutting rates more aggressively than usual as they approached zero.
In other words, the consensus was that the Fed would do better to shoot off whatever limited ammunition it had left if faced with an economic flameout, rather than to conserve its remaining rate cuts in case things became even worse later. That thinking even played a role in the Fed's decision in November to cut rates by half a percentage point rather than just a quarter of a point.
BUT what if aggressive easing does not work, and the economy is dead in the water with zero nominal interest rates? Could the Fed do anything to conduct monetary policy without cutting rates?
The minutes of the January meeting refer only to a discussion of "unconventional policy measures" whose "efficacy was uncertain." Those no doubt included trying to inject money into the financial system by buying long-term government or corporate bonds or even stocks and real estate -- steps that would be technically complex and politically explosive.
The good news is that such a crisis seems less likely now than it did a few months ago. The economy rebounded smartly in the first quarter, growing at a 5.8 percent annual rate, the government reported on Friday, and the Fed has continued to pump money into the economy, fueling concern among some analysts that the threat later this year will be of overheating.
There are even glimmers of hope from Japan, meanwhile, that it is at last pulling out of its slump, suggesting that a brush with the zero bound does not have to be terminal.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal funds target rate since 2001. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEFLATION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORISM (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



721 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: America's Restive Partners 

BYLINE:  By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
The news from Europe sounds grim. Synagogues have been fire-bombed; Jews have been assaulted; one in five French voters chose the far right candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in the first round of the country's elections. American observers have wondered whether these events presage a return to the murderous hatreds and anti-Semitism of Europe's dark past. Are things really that bad? Maybe not. Above all, they are not that simple.
 The ultranationalist, xenophobic right is manifestly on the rise, and not just in France. In the most recent national elections in Austria and Switzerland, anti-immigrant parties got 27 percent and 23 percent of the vote, respectively. In Antwerp, the hypernationalist Vlaams Blok won nearly 40 percent at the last local elections, in 2000. Last month one in three of the prosperous burghers of Rotterdam gave Pim Fortuyn, a flamboyant gay populist, their backing: half of all Dutch voters under 30 support his proposal to ban Muslim immigration and say they'll vote for him and his party in the country's national elections next month. 
 The antiforeigner Danish People's Party won 12 percent of the national vote last November. Even in Britain, there is similar sentiment. The anti-immigrant, ultranationalist British National Party scored an unprecedented 14 percent of the vote in some decaying industrial towns with large Asian populations.
These groups have in common three interlocking obsessions: crime, immigration and the loss of national "identity." The first issue is real: violent street crime is on the increase in Europe, and mainstream politicians who ignore it will be punished by voters. Everywhere the far right blames immigrants for crime. In France there are some five million Muslims, and they are Mr. Le Pen's primary target. In the Netherlands there are only 800,000 Muslims (5 percent of the population), but that is enough for Mr. Fortuyn to write a book called "Against the Islamization of Our Culture" and declare that his country is "full." In her best-known campaign poster, Pia Kjaersgaard, the leader of Denmark's People's Party, showed a pretty little blond child with the caption: "By the time you retire, Denmark will be a majority-Muslim nation." Yet in Denmark just 1 person in 15 is of foreign origin and most of these are thoroughly assimilated.
The extreme right abhors dark people and other newcomers; it always has. But the common thread in right-wing populism today is something new, what Mr. Le Pen astutely captures when he appeals to the "little people ruined by Euro-globalization." Many Europeans today, especially the citizens of small, unimportant states (the French are an exception here), feel bewildered and lost. Their countries and their institutions have lost their place in a globalizing world economy -- and above all in an institutionally homogenized European Union.
Just as Americans would be wrong to project Europe's morbid past onto its troubled present, so they perhaps take too seriously the rhetoric of European unity, writing of "the European project," "European attitudes," or even "European anti-Semitism." Tip O'Neill used to insist that in the United States all politics is local. In Europe today, all politics is national. Jean-Marie Le Pen is a French dilemma. There is no such thing as the "European" far right; there are only the French, Dutch, Danish, Austrian, Italian and other variants. They share certain dislikes, one of which is the idea of "Europe" itself. "France" or "Denmark" is a concept with which men and women can identify, for good and ill, and on whose behalf prejudices and fears may be mobilized. "Europe" is not.
The emphasis has changed, and the new sources of violence and xenophobia are not primarily rooted in traditional European anti-Semitism or the dark European past. Jews have been beaten in recent weeks, and synagogues attacked. But the perpetrators have often been those same young Muslims -- in France and elsewhere -- whom the far right itself excoriates. And though Europeans are typically more sympathetic to the Palestinian cause, to suggest, as some American commentators have done, that European guilt over the Holocaust is eased by the sight of Israeli violence -- and that Israel's behavior has released Europe's innate anti-Semitism -- is to simplify a complex situation. It is also a slander on people in countries like Sweden or Portugal who quite properly feel no such guilt.
The extreme right in Europe is nowhere on the verge of power. Mr. Le Pen has no hope of winning 30 percent of the electorate, much less becoming France's next president. But the European social crisis of which the far right is a pathological portent will not disappear, and on this score Americans have grounds for anxiety. It has for some time now been clear that Europe and America are drifting apart. On free trade, Iraq, the Middle East, international courts and many other post-cold war international issues, the Western allies are at odds. Yet the most important difference of all frequently passes unmentioned.
Europeans today are being forced to weigh the social costs of abandoning the postwar welfare state. The far right offers one solution -- close the borders against change and newcomers and confine state-provided social and welfare services to the "native" community. The left would retain the ideal of the social democratic state, at the expense of profit and efficiency if need be. And both sides juxtapose their European understanding of the good society, the cohesive community, to the American market-driven variant. This widely debated contrast is the common, binding thread at the heart of European anti-Americanism, and it is set to grow, not diminish.
In these circumstances it is reasonable to be anxious about the future of the Western alliance. In the arrogance of power, officials in Washington have taken to describing the Europeans as "our fair-weather friends," whose sensibilities can safely be ignored. The assumption is that the Europeans are bound to follow the American lead -- how else could it be? But this is imprudent. Fair-weather or not, the Europeans are our closest friends. But many Europeans see the world very differently, and it is a dangerous illusion to suppose that the logic of globalization must needs bring us together. Recent events in Europe suggest that the opposite may be happening. And that would be grim news indeed.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RELIGION (78%); REFUGEES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (89%) JUDT, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



722 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: Coup? Not His Style. But Power? Oh, Yes. 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
ONLY Gustavo A. Cisneros could have orchestrated such a scene: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and President Jiang Zemin of China joined Julio Iglesias in singing a few verses of "When I Left Cuba" during Mr. Jiang's visit here last year.
 Mr. Cisneros, a media tycoon and one of Latin America's most powerful figures, had discreetly arranged for Mr. Iglesias, a close friend, to smooth relations between the leaders. Mr. Jiang used the trip to announce investments by several Chinese companies in Venezuela's energy industry. 
 That was before Mr. Chavez, who once enjoyed Mr. Cisneros's support, was briefly ousted in an uprising this month that has this nation of 24 million swirling with theories about its conspirators. Much attention has been focused on Mr. Cisneros, who is 56. He owns one of the nation's most influential television networks as well as Venezuelan companies like Cerveceria Regional, a brewery, and Los Leones, a popular Caracas baseball team. 
Mr. Cisneros, a multibillionaire whose international conglomerate of 70 companies relies on unfettered access to high-ranking political and economic officials in nearly 40 countries, said in an interview on Wednesday that he had no involvement in the planning behind the president's 48-hour intermission from power. Some of Mr. Chavez's allies have also rejected speculation that Mr. Cisneros played such a role.
"I don't consider him a Venezuelan capable of adventures of that sort," said Jose Vicente Rangel, the defense minister.
Yet few people anywhere are capable of mixing adventures in the most rarefied of circles as extensively as Mr. Cisneros.
He draws much of his influence from his company's media properties. The Cisneros Group has the widest reach of any broadcaster in South America, and Cisneros-owned companies like Venevision produce and distribute more than 19,000 hours of programs in Spanish and Portuguese each year to 40 million households in 21 countries on three continents. It is the largest shareholder in Univision, a Spanish-language network that owns 18 stations in the United States -- six in California, five in Texas and others in New York, Florida, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Arizona and Connecticut.
In addition to his business interests, he and his wife, Patricia Phelps de Cisneros, have several homes outside Venezuela, in places like New York, Madrid and Aspen, Colo., where they are fixtures in an international social scene that combines finance, media, art collecting and philanthropy.
Mr. Cisneros's presence in this stratum of international business is a result of decisions he began to make in the 1980's, long before other prominent investors in Latin America were looking beyond their own backyard. By that time, Mr. Cisneros, together with his younger brother Ricardo, had taken control of a set of business holdings established by their father, Diego, an immigrant from Cuba who moved to Caracas to form a trucking company in the 1930's.
"Many wealthy people in Latin America are content to put their money in a bank in Switzerland and watch it grow," said Violy McCausland, an investment banker from neighboring Colombia who has advised Mr. Cisneros on several deals. "Gustavo's strong personality prevented him from taking such a boring route."
Mr. Cisneros's father had sought partnerships abroad early on, striking a deal in the 1940's to form an independent bottling operation for Pepsi-Cola, a relationship that persisted until the Cisneros Group switched to bottling Coca-Cola in 1996. The group also acquired interests in a variety of companies in Venezuela, in areas like supermarkets and mining, cementing their position near the pinnacle of the nation's economic elite.
(The family's position certainly did not hurt last year, when authorities shelved an investigation, involving Ricardo Cisneros, over the failure of Banco Latino in 1994. They said they could not place individual blame.)
In the 1980's, the Cisneros Group acquired controlling stakes in Spalding Sports Worldwide, the sporting goods manufacturer, and Evenflo, a maker of baby products, that it sold in 1996 for an estimated $1 billion to the leveraged buyout firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company. Around that time, Mr. Cisneros bought a town house on East 61st Street in Manhattan and turned it into an office where investment bankers scoured the United States and Latin America for opportunities.
This strategy produced one of the most internationalized media empires in Latin America. The Cisneros Group of companies includes interests as disparate as DirecTV satellite television operations in eight countries; Spanish-language television networks in Venezuela, Colombia, Chile and the United States; Internet access companies across the region through a partnership with America Online; and even the Miss Venezuela Pageant, which the Cisneros Group produces and which is broadcast in 20 countries.
THESE investments have allowed Mr. Cisneros to build one of Latin America's largest fortunes, estimated by Forbes magazine recently at $5.3 billion, second in the region only to the wealth of Carlos Slim Helu, the billionaire chairman of Telefonos de Mexico. The Cisneros Group, which is privately held by Mr. Cisneros and other members of the family, has annual sales of about $3.6 billion.
"The internationalization of the Cisneros Group has taken a lot of the volatility out of their operations," said Jose Gonzalo Maci, the chief executive of BBO Servicios Financieros, an investment banking firm here. "By limiting their exposure to Venezuela, they've actually been able to become more influential within the country."
When it became apparent in 1998 that Mr. Chavez, a populist politician who led a coup attempt as an army colonel in 1992, would be elected president, Mr. Cisneros and other influential businessmen in Venezuela supported him and sought to influence him. For years, members of Venezuela's elite have supported politicians of a variety of stripes to try to retain their influence in the economy, said Miguel R. Tinker Salas, a Venezuelan who directs the Latin American studies program at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif.
Their support for Mr. Chavez eroded, however, after the president made clear that he planned to pursue fundamental changes in Venezuela to try to redistribute wealth in the country, where 80 percent of the population lives in poverty. Mr. Chavez's speeches often had references to "squalid oligarchs" bent on preserving their upper-class privileges.
Oscar Garcia Mendoza, the president of Banco Venezolano de Credito, said in an interview that "Cisneros, like any businessman, would like to see Chavez go."
As Mr. Chavez's profile grew in recent years, so did Mr. Cisneros's. The Cisneros Group invested $300 million to increase sales of beer from his Regional brewery, reigniting competition with the Mendoza family, owner of Cerveceria Polar, Venezuela's largest brewer, and traditional rivals of the Cisneros family.
Mr. Cisneros also bought the Leones professional baseball team last year, a move that several analysts here compared with Ted Turner's purchase of the Atlanta Braves. Mr. Cisneros is a close friend of another baseball family, the Bushes of Texas, and he went fishing in Venezuela last year with the first President Bush.
Exceso, a Venezuelan magazine, this month went as far as to publish a cover article speculating that Mr. Cisneros had presidential aspirations. He said he was surprised by the article. "I have no such ambitions," Mr. Cisneros, smartly dressed in a tailored suit, said in an interview at his office in the sprawling Venevision television network complex here. "I hope I have a few years left to be mischievous in my business career."
As Mr. Chavez broadened his efforts to take greater control of the Venezuelan economy in recent years, Mr. Cisneros's luxurious villa in Caracas became a meeting point for people interested in discussing political alternatives, according to Juan Carlos Zapata, managing editor of Tal Cual, a newspaper.
"The entire counterrevolution could be found at his home at certain moments," said Mr. Zapata, who has written several books about Venezuela's business elite.
The presence at one recent reception of Luis Miquilena, a former Chavez ally who has had a falling out with the president, was cause for speculation here over the erosion of political support for the president.
But political opponents of Mr. Chavez are not the only guests at Mr. Cisneros's home. He has also held receptions for Charles Shapiro, the United States ambassador to Venezuela, and Donna Hrinak, the former ambassador in Caracas and currently the ambassador to Brazil.
Mr. Cisneros also remains a friend of Otto Reich, the under secretary of state for Latin American affairs and a former United States ambassador to Venezuela. Mr. Reich is believed to have called Mr. Cisneros several times during the frenetic 48 hours when Mr. Chavez was out of power to discuss the situation, people close to the Cisneros Group said.
Mr. Cisneros is not only an important go-between for officials in the United States and Venezuela. His behind-the-scenes diplomacy extends to Venezuela's relations with other countries in Latin America and with Spain, people close to the Cisneros Group said. Mr. Cisneros declined to comment on these ties.
For example, Mr. Cisneros had helped to arrange a series of meetings between the former president of the Dominican Republic, Leonel Fernandez, and officials in Venezuela, including Mr. Chavez, these people said.
Mr. Chavez is a friend of Mr. Fernandez, and Mr. Cisneros, who also has a home in the Dominican Republic, is believed to have thought it would be useful for the president to hear about Mr. Fernandez's recipe for bringing strong economic growth to his country. The meeting with Mr. Chavez was scheduled to take place on the afternoon of April 16, two days after the president's supporters returned him to power; it did not take place.
SIMILARLY, Mr. Cisneros has served as a conduit for the government of Spain to relay messages to Venezuela's. Mr. Cisneros has had close ties with Spanish authorities since the Cisneros family made investments in department stores and other businesses in Spain in the 1980's. Spain has tried to form closer political ties with Latin American nations since Spanish companies went on an investment binge in the region in the 1990's but has met some resistance to closer ties in Venezuela.
Mr. Chavez's administration, for example, has been reluctant to extradite several people in Venezuela who are suspected of having ties to E.T.A., the Basque terrorist organization. Government officials say this is because the extradition requests need to go through normal legal channels in Venezuela, but the government's critics cite ideological differences with the government of Jose Maria Aznar, Spain's right-of-center prime minister.
Mr. Cisneros declined to comment on his recent communications with Mr. Chavez, though it is believed that they discussed the E.T.A. extraditions at a conference last month in Monterrey, Mexico. The two men still relay messages to each other through cabinet officials who are on friendly terms with both of them, people close to the Cisneros Group said. In the meantime, Mr. Cisneros has emphasized the need for wider debate over the nation's future.
"The need for a democratic solution to Venezuela's political dilemma is absolutely clear," he said.
Given Venezuela's recent history of instability, it is no surprise that pessimism about the economy is pervasive. Interest rates remain above 40 percent, gross domestic product is expected to contract by 1 percent this year and inflation is seen accelerating to 30 percent this year from 12 percent in 2001.
Reporte, an economic newspaper here, summed up the country's situation as "a closed economy, a shaky financial system and high inflation." 
So is the Cisneros Group planning to reduce its holdings in Venezuela, as it did during the uncertain days of the early 1990's? Not by a long shot. In addition to looking at opportunities elsewhere in Latin America, especially in Argentina and Brazil, Mr. Cisneros is planning to increase investments here. The group will start with the Regional brewery as it seeks to take away market share from its larger rival, Polar.
"We remain firmly committed to Venezuela," Mr. Cisneros said. "We won't shrink here, we'll expand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gustavo A. Cisneros and his wife, Patricia, are a Latin American power couple, in business and the global social scene. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Gustavo A. Cisneros, left, and Stephen M. Case, AOL Time Warner's chairman, at a conference in 2000. Mr. Cisneros's America Online Latin America operates in partnership with AOL Time Warner. (Reuters)(pg. 11) Chart: "A Latin Empire"With more than 70 companies in 39 countries and annual revenue of $4 billion, the Cisneros Group is one of the largest privately held companies in the world. Here are some of its main holdings. AMERICA ONLINE LATIN AMERICAIn partnership with AOL Time Warner, it provides global interactive services to more than one million suscribers in, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Puerto Rico. The company went public in August 2000. DIRECTV LATIN AMERICAThis partnership with Hughes Electronics broadcasts digital satellite programming of 300 video and audio channels to more than 1.6 million subscrib-ers in 28 countries. It offers interactive banking, telephony and data transmission.Owned partly by the Cisneros Group, it is the third-largest bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world. IBERO-AMERICAN MEDIA PARTNERSThis $500 million fund, formed with Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, invests in media properties in Latin America, Spain and Portugal. LOS LEONES DEL CARACASOne of Venezuela's most popular baseball teams. PANAMCOOwned partly by the Cisneros Group, it is the third-largest bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world. PUEBLO XTRA INTERNATIONALThe leading food retailer and video chain in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. CERVECERiA REGIONALThe second-largest brewer and beer distributor in Venezuela, with a market share of more than 20 percent. UNIVISION COMMUNICATIONSUnivision, controlled by the Cisneros Group, operates the Univision Network, the most-watched Spanish-language TV network in the United States; Galavision, the leading Spanish cable television network in the United States; Univision Music Group, a music recording and publishing leader, and Univision.com, the popular Spanish-language Web site in the United States. (Source: The Cisneros Group)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); BASEBALL (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); TRENDS (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); TRUCKING (50%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: CISNEROS GROUP 

PERSON: GUSTAVO CISNEROS (94%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); STEVE CASE (59%) ROMERO, SIMON; CISNEROS, GUSTAVO A; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); CHINA (93%); PUERTO RICO (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); SPAIN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (59%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



723 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: The World: Bonding; 
Even in Anger, Breaking Up Would Be Hard to Do

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR all the tough talk in Texas last week, the plain truth is this: Like a long-suffering couple with encrusted needs and accumulated grievances, the United States and Saudi Arabia may lash out at each other in mutual recrimination. But this marriage can, and almost surely will, be saved.
 The five hours of meetings between President Bush and Crown Prince Abdullah, and the days of public posturing and private diplomatic contacts that bracketed their encounter, amounted to a duel of demarches. Veiled Saudi threats of oil embargoes or base closures met deep American unease about a Saudi culture that spawned 15 of the Sept. 11 hijackers and sponsored a telethon for Palestinian "martyrs." 
 But the leaders' pickup truck ride at Mr. Bush's ranch ended with unmistakable signs that both sides would keep talking about how to resolve the dispute that looms largest between them at the moment, the bloody stalemate in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that subsumes and stands in for a range of tensions in United States-Saudi relations.
Just a day after a person familiar with the crown prince's thinking floated the notion of using the "oil weapon" (briefly roiling world markets), others made it clear that there was no immediate intention to do so. Indeed, a cutoff in oil exports or fluctuation in prices would hurt the weak Saudi economy at least as much as it would the United States.
The Saudis count on the United States for more than just gluttonous oil consumption. The kingdom is the biggest purchaser of American weapons, and American military might has defended Saudi territory from regional aggression in the past. Though the American presence in the country is a sore point for younger, more militant segments of the Saudi population, the ruling family depends on Washington for stability and security just as surely as Israel does -- a point only emphasized by the crown prince's blunt warnings about the decline of American credibility in the region.
For its part, as it weighs military action against Iraq, the Bush administration more than ever needs an understanding with Saudi Arabia, whatever Washington's concerns about Saudi winking and nodding at Muslim extremism.
"The president's focus, rightly, is on terrorism, because that is the threat to the United States," said Edward S. Walker Jr., a former assistant secretary of state and an expert on the Middle East. "The Saudi focus is on the attitude and mood in the region and the Muslim world, because that is the threat in their area. So you have different approaches to pretty much the same issue: the prince believes that the president could do more in terms of putting pressure on Israel and I'm sure the president feels the crown prince could do more in blunting terrorism."
In fact, the surprising thing about the session at Mr. Bush's house is that it took so long to happen. Crown Prince Abdullah was supposed to have gone to Crawford last summer, but canceled in anger over the Israeli-Palestinian situation.
"I was there until March of 2001," said the former American ambassador to Riyadh, Wyche Fowler Jr., "and the crown prince was warning then that unless there was a way to end the violence, and the attack-and-counterattacks in Israel, then America's credibility and influence in the region would deteriorate. And he worried that unless there was a firm U.S. hand to separate the parties, that what would happen is what has happened: that it would spin out of control."
Last fall, Mr. Bush began efforts to respond, with a speech at the United Nations outlining his support for a Palestinian state. As the violence worsened, he at last dispatched Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the Middle East to ratchet up diplomacy.
The administration has praised the crown prince's vision of normal relations between Israel and its Arab neighbors in exchange for full Israeli withdrawal from lands occupied after the 1967 war, and has expressed some interest in a regional peace conference where it could presumably be a centerpiece. But it remains split by internal dissension over whether any peace is possible between antagonists as entrenched as Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and as unreliable as the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat.
"Let's not forget," said Judith Kipper, a Middle East expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, "that the president came to this last August when the crown prince sent his angry message. He returned to it when the violence escalated. But he never came to it to make peace in the Middle East. He came to it to make nice with the Saudis, and then because it was a crisis that needed cooling off, in order to get back to what, in his world view, is really important: the war on terror."
Still, the outlines of compromise are clear enough. The crown prince presented the president with an eight-point proposal that largely echoes the administration's own stated goals: Israeli withdrawal from recently occupied Palestinian areas, an end to the siege of Mr. Arafat's compound, a major reconstruction effort in shattered Palestinian territories, renunciation of violence, an end to Israeli settlements, immediate political negotiations and a final settlement based on the principles of longstanding United Nations resolutions.
The demand for insertion of a multinational peacekeeping force in the West Bank seemed the most problematic, given Israel's steadfast objection to international troops and this administration's reluctance to dispatch American troops. And both sides effectively acknowledge that nothing can happen until Israel completes its withdrawal from Palestinian-controlled areas.
SO for the moment, a senior administration official said late Friday, the administration is taking the time to mull its options for next steps. 
Even as the private diplomacy continued, the Saudis launched a new round in the war of public relations, broadcasting television advertisements in at least five American markets, including Washington, featuring statements from Mr. Bush and Secretary Powell supporting Saudi Arabia.
"Prejudice, fear and conflicting views can distort what we see and hear," one 30-second advertisement says. "Please keep your eyes, ears and especially your minds open."
"This is a strategic relationship and it has been for 55 years," said Ms. Kipper of the Council on Foreign Relations. "The two countries together have, during the Second World War, the cold war, the Vietnam War, two or three wars in the region, the Iranian revolution, weathered all the storms extremely well, and there's no doubt that we'll weather this storm also."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, between meetings with President Bush, greeted Texas state troopers last week in Waco. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NEW ISSUES (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); CONSUMPTION (66%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE); PURDUM, TODD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) SAUDI ARABIA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



724 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: White House Seeks Savings By Changing Student Loans 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is seeking to ease its budget shortfalls by squeezing $1.3 billion from a federal student loan program, administration and Congressional officials said today.
 The proposal would prevent millions of college students and graduates from consolidating their education loans to lock in low interest rates. It was made this week to Republican budget negotiators by the White House budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., as a way to deal with budget shortfalls that are expected to push the federal deficit for this year to more than $100 billion. 
 Democratic Congressional leaders are expected to fiercely oppose the move, which is projected to save an estimated $1.3 billion for the government this year, as unfair to the millions of Americans who depend on federal student loans. 
Officials said the White House proposal would end a program that has allowed college and university students and graduates to consolidate their student loans at a federally subsidized, fixed interest rate and take up to 30 years to pay them back.
Under the proposal, the consolidated loans would be offered only at variable rates. This is expected to make them far less appealing and ultimately save the government billions in subsidies for the program. The change would not affect students and graduates who have already consolidated their loans.
A spokesman for Mr. Daniels, Trent Duffy, confirmed that the proposal had been forwarded to Congress in discussing the administration's request for a $27 billion supplemental spending bill for the rest of the year, much of it for counterterrorism programs.
Mr. Duffy said the loan proposal was "very preliminary" and was offered as an option to make room in the budget for spending elsewhere. Officials said Mr. Daniels noted to the House Republicans that the proposal would offset a $1.3 billion shortfall this year in the budget for Pell Grants, the education grant program for low-income students.
David Sirota, a spokesman for Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, which must act on the supplemental spending bill, said Democrats would oppose the change because it would effectively raise the interest on education loans for millions of Americans.
"The president and his budget director are finally being honest about their misguided priorities -- more tax cuts for Enron paid for by effectively raising taxes on middle-class students and their families," Mr. Sirota said.
The federal government began the loan consolidation program in 1986. It allows a college student or graduate burdened by a number of variable-rate education loans to merge them into a single loan guaranteed by the government, with a fixed interest rate, to be repaid over as much as 30 years. Under the current program, the interest rate is capped at 8.25 percent a year.
But critics, including some private lenders, say it has allowed high-income college and university graduates -- including doctors, lawyers and other professionals -- to consolidate education debts at the federal government's expense. Government officials said the program had cost the government billions of dollars.
The program's appeal to borrowers is obvious from promotional material distributed by Sallie Mae, the quasi-governmental educational lender, which refers to the debt consolidation plans with the brand name "Smart Loan."
Unlike other loans, the consolidation loans are offered without any credit checks, service fees or prepayment penalities -- costs that are effectively assumed by the federal government, which also assumes the risk if there is a default on the loan.
With the low interest rates, borrowers are able to lock in rates that would otherwise have inched up over time -- and would have brought in higher interest payments to the government and to private lenders.
Kathleen deLaski, the chief spokeswoman for Sallie Mae, said the switch to fixed loans in the consolidation program would have "no significant impact on our business" because it would be "interest-rate neutral," with rates rising and falling over time. 
But Ms. deLaski suggested that there was logic to the administration's change, because it would free federal money that could be used elsewhere in the government, possibly for other education programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (94%); BUDGETS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (78%) SHENON, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



725 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MILITARY; 
U.S. Envisions Blueprint on Iraq Including Big Invasion Next Year

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, in developing a potential approach for toppling President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, is concentrating its attention on a major air campaign and ground invasion, with initial estimates contemplating the use of 70,000 to 250,000 troops.
 The administration is turning to that approach after concluding that a coup in Iraq would be unlikely to succeed and that a proxy battle using local forces there would be insufficient to bring a change in power. 
 But senior officials now acknowledge that any offensive would probably be delayed until early next year, allowing time to create the right military, economic and diplomatic conditions. These include avoiding summer combat in bulky chemical suits, preparing for a global oil price shock, and waiting until there is progress toward ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Until recently, the administration had contemplated a possible confrontation with Mr. Hussein this fall, after building a case at the United Nations that the Iraqi leader is unwilling to allow the kind of highly intrusive inspections needed to prove that he has no weapons of mass destruction. 
Now that schedule seems less realistic. Conflict in the Middle East has widened a rift within the administration over whether military action can be undertaken without inflaming Arab states and prompting anti-American violence throughout the region.
In his public speeches, President Bush still sounds as intent as ever about ousting Mr. Hussein, making it clear that he will not let the Middle East crisis obscure his goal. But he has not issued any order for the Pentagon to mobilize its forces, and today there is no official "war plan."
Instead, policy makers and operational commanders are trying to sketch out the broad outlines of the confrontation they expect.
Among the many questions they must address is where to base air and ground forces in the region.
Even before Mr. Bush's tense meeting with Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia on Thursday, the Pentagon was working on the assumption that it might have to carry out any military action without the use of bases in the kingdom.
The planning now anticipates the possible extensive use of bases for American forces in Turkey and Kuwait, with Qatar as the replacement for the sophisticated air operations center in Saudi Arabia, and with Oman and Bahrain playing important roles.
As to any war plan itself, the military expects to be asked for a more traditional approach than the unconventional campaign in Afghanistan. Such an approach would resemble the Persian Gulf war in style if not in size and would be fought with even more modern weapons and more dynamic tactics.
"The president has not made any decisions," a senior Defense Department official said. "But any efforts against Iraq will not look like what we did in Afghanistan."
Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and their senior aides contend that Arab leaders would publicly protest but secretly celebrate Mr. Hussein's downfall -- as long as the operation were decisive -- and that ousting him would actually ease the job of calming violence between Israel and the Palestinians. They believe that warnings of uprisings among Arab populations are overblown and compare them to similar warnings before the gulf war, which proved unfounded.
"It has been the consistent drumbeat from our friends in the region that if we are serious, they will be with us," said an administration official in this camp.
But others at the State Department and the White House argue that efforts to topple Mr. Hussein would be viewed by Arabs as a confrontation with Islam, destabilizing the region and complicating the broader campaign against Osama bin Laden and his network, Al Qaeda.
The reaction in Saudi Arabia is already critical. The United States would need permission to use Saudi airspace adjacent to Iraq, if not Saudi air bases, officials said, but it is unclear whether Mr. Bush took up that subject with Crown Prince Abdullah when the topic of Iraq came up. Mr. Rumsfeld, who met with the Saudi leader a day ahead of Mr. Bush, said access to bases "was not a topic at all" of his discussions.
Turkish officials, for their part, said that no negotiations on basing American troops for a new campaign against Iraq had yet taken place; American officials confirmed that, calling such talks premature.
Kuwait's position, too, is uncertain. At an Arab League summit meeting in March, Iraq agreed to recognize Kuwait and pledged not to invade again in exchange for a declaration that an attack on Iraq would be considered an attack against all Arab states. But American officials said they could rely on Kuwait, whose very survival is owed to American military power after Iraq invaded the country in 1990.
Senior administration, Pentagon and military officials say that consensus has emerged that there is little chance for a military coup to unseat Mr. Hussein from within, even with the United States exerting economic and military pressure and providing covert assistance.
"There have been at least six coup attempts in the 1990's, and they consistently fail," an administration official said. In each instance, this official said, dissident Iraqi military officers "sent signals to us, 'We're ready for a coup,' and the next thing you know these guys are murdered or it fails or people have cold feet at the end and leave the country."
"It's a horrific police state," the official said. "Nobody trusts anyone, so how can you pull off a coup?"
Similarly, officials say they do not believe that even an expanded version of the strategy used to oust the Taliban from Afghanistan would work. In that model, precision airstrikes combined with indigenous armed opposition under the leadership of American Special Operations forces and C.I.A. officers did the job.
The parallel strategy in Iraq would involve the Kurds in the north and the Shiites in the south. But Mr. Hussein's military, while only one-third its strength from before the gulf war, is strong enough to defeat any confrontation by proxy, officials said.
Officials said the nascent plans for a heavy air campaign and land assault already included rough numbers of troops, ranging from a minimum of about 70,000 to 100,000 -- one Army corps or a reinforced corps -- to a top of 250,000 troops, which still would be only half the number used in the gulf war. Other than troops from Britain, no significant contribution of allied forces is anticipated.
The military requirements for changing the government in Baghdad would be vastly different than the gulf war mission, which was to drive an entrenched enemy from a large occupied area, senior military officers said.
"We would not need to hold territory and protect our flanks to the same extent," one officer said. "You would see a higher level of maneuver and airborne assault, dropping in vertically and enveloping targets -- less slogging mile by mile through the desert."
Even so, officers said, moving tens of thousands of troops to a region with access more limited than in the gulf war could be a logistical challenge. The modern American military has never fought the kind of dangerous and complicated urban battles that might be needed to oust the Hussein government.
Dealing with Mr. Hussein's suspected chemical and biological weapons would require pre-emptive strikes by precision weapons, as well as an element of heavy deterrence.
"One of the things we would want to do is say that any Iraqi officer or soldier who throws chemical or biological weapons at us will be held personally responsible," said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who directed the Air Force's definitive study of the Persian Gulf war. "You say, 'You guys operating the missile batteries: we will find you, and you will pay.' Saddam's people have no desire to go down in a blaze of glory with him."
While the Pentagon has focused on how to remove Mr. Hussein, the White House is also mindful of the effects of a war on oil supplies -- either because the fighting itself would disrupt the flow of oil, or because Saudi Arabia and other Arab producers would feel obliged because of political pressure at home to cut exports to the United States.
R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, said the administration had examined the possible effects of a spike in oil prices caused by spreading unrest in the Middle East or an invasion of Iraq.
He said a surge in oil prices would probably not by itself have a large effect on the American economy. But he said it was more difficult to assess the possible effects on consumer and business confidence. One of the lessons of the gulf war, he said, was that consumer confidence recovered once the United States made clear that it intended to expel Iraqi forces from Kuwait and guarantee the security of the Saudi oilfields.
In November, Mr. Bush ordered that the government's Strategic Petroleum Reserve be filled to capacity. A review of the reserve's delivery schedule shows that many of the largest monthly deliveries are between September and January, another reason to put off any offensive against Iraq to early next year.
"We want to be in a position to go into the markets if speculators begin bidding up the price of oil, and settle them down fast," one official said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); DICK CHENEY (58%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); SHANKER, THOM; SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); TURKEY (79%); OMAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); QATAR (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002 



726 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Notes From Los Angeles; 
Rebuilding a City One Block at a Time

BYLINE:  By Torie Osborn; Torie Osborn is executive director of the Liberty Hill Foundation, which supports grass-roots community organizations.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The violence that ripped through Los Angeles 10 years ago today was like the raw wail of an untended child. It was more than that, of course: the riots of April 1992 left more than 50 dead and $1 billion in property damage. But the cry still echoes. If America is working out its future in Los Angeles, then the city's experience trying to calm that wail is worth revisiting a decade later.
 Part of what the riots revealed was a city landscape bereft not just of hope, but of the most basic urban amenities: There were only two major supermarkets in south central Los Angeles, for instance, and other services like auto-repair shops and banks were also scarce. Rebuilding Los Angeles, it soon became clear, would require more than government and private-sector investment. Community leaders needed to step into the void -- and, with the support of local foundations, they did. Though much remains unfinished, the city has made some remarkable gains. 
 In the immediate aftermath of the riots, government and private-sector support was woefully inadequate. The federal government allotted some $1.35 billion in aid, but only a small fraction was used to help those directly affected by the riots. California and the city, crippled by a deep recession, lacked sufficient resources to help.
Meanwhile, Rebuild Los Angeles, the city's effort to rally private-sector good citizenship, was led by Peter Ueberroth, who had led the city's Olympics triumph. Launched with great fanfare -- at one point its board consisted of 94 members, including Hollywood figures like the actor Edward James Olmos and the agent Mike Ovitz -- it was unable to meet public expectations or the real magnitude of need. Of the $4 billion to $6 billion the organization estimated was necessary to bring the affected communities up to par with the rest of the county, only $389 million had actually been raised and invested by the time Rebuild L.A. closed its doors in 1997.
It was truly twilight in Los Angeles: a time of quiet desperation, uncertainty and, ultimately, invention. A few grass-roots community leaders, who had seen the riots sap what strength was left in their neighborhoods, decided to take a new approach. Working with local foundations, they helped move philanthropy beyond its historic support for charity. Philanthropists began to invest in community organizing in the hope that it could more effectively solve social problems. With a new willingness to take chances, foundations invested millions of dollars.
In the last 10 years, these community-led efforts have become a new force in Los Angeles politics, one that exists almost entirely outside traditional power circles -- and they have made an impact on legislation and public policy. They were instrumental in the passage of the city's living-wage law, approved five years ago, which has raised more than 10,000 low-wage workers above the poverty level. Like most of the nearly 60 living-wage ordinances that have been passed nationwide since 1988, the ordinance requires that city contractors guarantee employees a wage that keeps them above the threshold for federal assistance.
Building on the success of the living wage, community leaders found new ways to apply the principle that public contracts should provide public benefits. Last summer, community residents, joined by labor and religious leaders, met with developers of the Staples Center, who intended to expand the development beyond its original boundaries downtown. The developers agreed to provide living-wage jobs, hire local workers, offer job training, build affordable housing and make room for both parks and residential parking. The agreement reflects the priorities of residents because they were involved in the negotiations.
There are signs that this approach to civic involvement may be spreading: In California, groups in San Diego, Oakland and San Jose are currently pushing for what's been dubbed "accountable development." Unlike public development in the past, accountable development requires developers to provide public benefits like child-care facilities, teen centers and community involvement in the selection of retail tenants. In the case of the Staples Center expansion, Los Angeles inserted a "claw-back" provision in its contract with the developer, giving the city the right to demand the return of its subsidies if the developer fails to deliver on its promises. Such provisions have been passed into law in more than a dozen states and municipalities.
A decade ago in Los Angeles, there was little appreciation for the kind of innovation that springs from the grass roots. But this bottom-up approach has helped solve old problems and helped bring together the African-American, Asian and Latino communities of South Central.
None of this means that government and private-sector investment wasn't needed 10 years ago and isn't needed now. It only shows that even when political and business leadership fail, community leaders can succeed -- albeit on a modest scale.
Community organizing, no matter how well funded by philanthropies, can't cure urban poverty or stop crime. But it can help test new models that can then be expanded over time. Its successes thus far in Los Angeles include a new $100 million trust fund that will begin to address the city's affordable housing crisis and a campaign in South Central to encourage more productive use of retail space; there are now 150 fewer liquor stores in a neighborhood that in 1992 had more liquor stores than the state of Rhode Island.
After the fires of 1992, it was very hard to imagine what could be accomplished. Today, elected officials, business leaders and philanthropists around the country searching for ways to address urban poverty might take notice of the unlikely sparks of change in Los Angeles.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Natalie Acencios) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PHILANTHROPY; WAGES AND SALARIES; BLACKS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; LABOR 

PERSON: OSBORN, TORIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



727 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
Compensation Is Down in Technology Land

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Shrinking bonuses and underwater stock options have contributed to the first drop in technology workers' pay in at least five years, according to the results of an annual survey to be released today. 
 The median compensation package for information-technology managers surveyed in February fell 8 percent, to $89,000, from $97,000 a year earlier, according to an Internet poll of 10,000 respondents by the trade magazine InformationWeek. 
 Workers took a harder hit than managers: their total pay declined 11 percent, to $63,000, from $71,000. The declines wiped out the gains of a year earlier, dropping pay levels back to those of February 2000. 
It was the first drop in total compensation since InformationWeek began surveying its readers five years ago. 
Rusty Weston, editor of InformationWeek's research department, attributed the decline to the recent recession and cutbacks in nonsalary compensation, like bonuses and stock options. Base salaries continued to rise, though far below the increases of the last few years. Managers reported a median salary of $83,000, or 3.8 percent more than last year. Other workers made $61,000, a 1.7 percent increase. 
The San Francisco Bay Area reported the highest salaries, followed by the Dallas and Denver regions. Greater New York -- defined as New York City, North Jersey and Long Island -- was sixth. 
Workers also reported feeling more stress as they shouldered more responsibilities. Yet the majority of workers said they were not looking for new employment. 
"These guys are stressed out, there's lower morale, but they're happy to have their jobs," Mr. Weston said. CHRIS GAITHER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES 

ORGANIZATION: INFORMATION WEEK (PUB) 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



728 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ONLINE; 
Selling and Collecting the Intangible, at $1,000 a Share

BYLINE:  By Matthew Mirapaul 

 BODY:
Mark Napier sold some of his art this month. For an artist whose digital works have been shown by the Whitney and the Guggenheim in New York, this should neither be significant nor surprising. But Mr. Napier's medium of the moment is the Internet, where the art that one sees is not a material object to collect. And with nary a guarantee that this kind of work will even survive the next power outage, sales of online art have been scarce indeed.
 Yet Mr. Napier has succeeded in selling three $1,000 shares in "The Waiting Room," an interactive, animated painting that has been hung, so to speak, in a private corner of the Net. Although he created the software that drives the work, its sights and sounds are generated by the online actions of its owners. As they click on the screen, pastel-hued spirals, ovals and squares appear and begin to swirl against a black background. Each shape is linked to a sound file that yields an accompanying hum or chirp. 
 Mr. Napier hopes to sell as many as 50 shares in "The Waiting Room," an approach that emphasizes the work's participatory nature. When multiple owners view it online at the same time, they can produce shapes that complement -- or obliterate -- those made by others. The work is the visual equivalent of an Internet chat room with "conversations" occurring in geometric shapes instead of words.
"The piece is meant to be seen not as 50 copies but as a single artwork that is literally a shared space online," Mr. Napier, a 40-year-old New Yorker, said. "So when somebody possesses this artwork, they are really sharing it."
Mr. Napier's strategy is the latest attempt to find a workable model for selling online art. As interest in online art has increased, artists have been stymied in their efforts to get paid for digital creations. Museums have commissioned and, in a few cases, acquired such virtual works. Mostly, though, online pieces have been a labor of love.
Even if he sells all 50 shares, Mr. Napier said, "clearly, I'm not in it for the money." Not entirely, anyway. His motivation was to develop a viable economic model that would help sustain the nascent genre. He said: "If you can't get a support system going, then the art will fade. It needs an audience, and it needs some sort of pull coming from the other side."
Because of the nature of the medium, Internet artworks obviously resist being turned into commodities that can be bought and sold. The traditional art world economy is built on the notion of the rare object. With an online work, there is no tangible object to own. Nor can a piece that can be accessed from any computer in the world and copied perfectly be considered rare.
There are other issues. A work may no longer be viewable once the relentless push of technology renders obsolete the hardware or software on which it was designed to run. And as many publishers have learned, people are reluctant to pay for online content that has been available at no charge. A work, "p-Soup," similar to "The Waiting Room," is freely accessible on Mr. Napier's Web site, Potatoland.org. 
Without income from their virtual works, some of the online art pioneers have returned to more conventional high-tech media. For instance, the New York artist John F. Simon Jr. makes wall displays for which the images are controlled by computer. "It's economics," he said. "I would love to spend time doing pieces online if I could pay the rent with it, but I have to work where I can support myself."
Has Mr. Napier cracked the code on how to sell online art? With three buyers in three weeks, it would be premature to say. Besides, there will be no real proof until a resale market develops for online art.
Mr. Napier's solution appears to be a savvy compromise between marketing art and marketing software. In the software business as in the music industry, a lot of copies of the same thing are sold at a relatively low price. Because "The Waiting Room" depends on its owners' actions, access to it must be controlled or it will become a visual jumble.
By offering no more than 50 shares, Mr. Napier has been able to make "The Waiting Room" into a limited-edition Internet site, which functions more like a live performance than a static artwork. The shareholders are buying a ticket to an event that they can attend anytime they wish. Although they also receive a certificate of authenticity and a CD-ROM that contains the software, these are like "Lion King" T-shirts. The work's value resides not in its keepsakes but in the experience it provides for the viewer.
This is not the first stab at selling online art. Some ingenious artists have tried to market their online projects, from complete Web sites to handcrafted computer viruses, by putting them on a collectible CD-ROM. Others have offered signed printouts of screens from their work, just as performance artists sell photographs and other memorabilia from their acts. But by converting these transient works into material commodities something gets lost in the translation.
Mr. Napier, who was trained as a painter, argues that "The Waiting Room" is every bit as tangible to him as works made in more traditional ways. He said: "Once you forget that there's a computer mediating this, it is just as physically there in the space as a canvas. It's just a question of shifting an art culture that for centuries has been immersed in the collectible object."
The shift, if it happens, will not be accomplished quickly. Online art is still an unfamiliar form. Steve Sacks, the owner of Bitforms, a new-media art gallery in Chelsea, which is selling "The Waiting Room," said some visitors have trouble grasping that the work is constantly changing and should not be frozen. He said: "People keep asking, 'Can I print this?' Or they say: 'I love this composition. I just want to stop it.' I say that's not what it's about. That sometimes turns people off."
The ephemeral quality of the work as well as its dependence on technology raises questions about its longevity. No one worries about the life span of a symphony or a play because there is a musical score or a script. For online art there is computer code. Mr. Napier said that when the time comes that he or an associate cannot maintain "The Waiting Room," its shareholders will get copies of the code. If necessary, they could hire someone to update the piece for the technology of that future time.
The first shareholders in "The Waiting Room" are undaunted by these concerns. Mark Addison, who teaches art history at the University of Colorado in Boulder, said: "A lot of art is ephemeral. I'm willing to accept that it won't last forever. If it does, and people are willing to rewrite the code, I'll go with that. And if not, we enjoyed it while it was here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From "The Waiting Room," an online artwork by Mark Napier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CHAT ROOMS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); POWER FAILURES (56%) ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: NAPIER, MARK; MIRAPAUL, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



729 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Most Commercial Broadcasters Will Miss Deadline for Digital Television

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
Another milestone in the nation's tortured transition to digital television is about to be missed. Almost three-quarters of the commercial broadcasters that were supposed to be offering a digital signal by Wednesday will fail to make the deadline.
 The delay is a further indication that the federally mandated transition to digital broadcasting will take longer than the planners had expected in the mid-1990's. But the missed deadline comes as no surprise. Hundreds of stations have been filing requests for extensions recently, citing a variety of financial and technical reasons. 
 A report issued last week by the General Accounting Office found that 74 percent of the stations that were supposed to be emitting a digital signal by the May 1 regulatory deadline would be unable to do so. The report said most of the delinquent stations had cited the high cost of new technology. For stations in transition, the expenses averaged 63 percent of annual revenue for a technology that adds nothing discernable to the bottom line. The report also noted the relatively low consumer interest caused by the high prices of digital TV sets and a host of technical issues like tower constructions.
Despite the difficulties, 95 percent of the major network affiliates in the top 30 markets are already offering digital broadcasting, and their signals reach about half of the population. But the failure of the smaller broadcasters is symbolic of a much larger nagging problem of aligning the technical and financial interests of a handful of industries -- broadcasters, programmers, cable operators and electronic equipment makers -- to make digital television accessible at affordable prices to consumers. 
"It's a very complicated transition with lots of moving parts," said Rick Chessen, the chairman of a regulatory task force supervising the government's oversight of the conversation to digital television.
Digital television, which Congress and policy makers have been promoting the last six years, offers crisper images and sound, reduced interference and the prospect of viewers communicating through the set much the way they now do on the Internet. But transforming TV from analog to digital has public-policy significance beyond pretty pictures and greater viewer participation.
Policy makers of varying approaches agree that, by using a far smaller sliver of the electronic spectrum, digital significantly frees the airwaves for more productive use by other industries, including wireless communications, whose proponents are clamoring for more licenses. Once digital penetrates 85 percent of the nation's viewing market, the law requires broadcasters to surrender their analog-spectrum licenses back to the government to be reissued to other commercial ventures at auction. As a result, analysts and policy makers agree that the longer the digital transition, the greater the economic overhang.
"Spectrum is critical for us to have economic growth," said Blair Levin, a former top official at the Federal Communications Commission who is a regulatory analyst at Legg Mason. "To the extent it is tied up, it represents a huge drag on the economy."
The rollout of digital TV has stalled over many uncertainties about how to do so profitably. Broadcasters, particularly smaller ones, see little or no financial benefit yet in offering digital signals. Consumers cannot find high-definition television sets at affordable prices. Programmers have moved slowly in offering shows of digital quality. Cable operators have only just begun, in small pockets, to transmit digital signals.
Hoping to break the logjam, Michael K. Powell, the F.C.C. chairman, has called for the major industrial players to impose their own voluntary deadlines.
"You will get on this train in the right way, or it will run you over," he said this month at the annual conference of the National Association of Broadcasters.
Mr. Powell urged the four major networks and other major programmers to digitally broadcast at least half of their prime-time shows by this fall. He asked cable and satellite companies to carry some digital programs by the beginning of next year at no extra cost to subscribers. And he proposed deadlines over the next four years for television makers to increase their production of sets that include digital tuners.
Others long engaged in the debate say that Mr. Powell's proposal is not enough, and that in some instances it asks industry players to do little more than they had previously pledged. While there is no momentum on Capitol Hill for the imposition of sanctions on tardy industry players or subsidies to encourage faster transition, some lawmakers are calling for legislation to prod a faster conversion.
"Our digital policy is a mess, and in the absence of the federal government intervening with a comprehensive policy, the American consumer is unlikely to ever receive the full benefits of the digital revolution," said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is the ranking Democrat on a House subcommittee on telecommunications. "Voluntary approaches don't work. A voluntary policy is what got us to today's mess. What we've wound up with now is the broadcast industry and cable industry engaged in spectrum hostage-taking with no end in sight, and no relief for the benefit of consumers."
Federal rules required the 119 largest network affiliates to begin transmitting some digital programs by May 1999. That deadline has largely been met.
By Wednesday, 1,121 smaller stations were supposed to be in compliance, but nearly three-quarters will fail to meet the deadline. But industry officials said that they expected most of the broadcasters to be in compliance by the end of the year.
"We consider this a short-term issue affecting mostly small and medium market broadcasters," said Dennis Wharton, a spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael K. Powell, F.C.C. chairman. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL TELEVISION (95%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (71%); AUCTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) TELEVISION; DIGITAL AND HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION; FINANCES 

COMPANY: LEGG MASON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%) GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



730 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
By selling its disk-drive business, is I.B.M. relinquishing the past, or is it simply preparing for a leap into the future?

BYLINE:  By John Markoff 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
THERE are people who believe Silicon Valley is a misnomer. 
 For Al Hoagland, Iron Ferrite Valley would be a more appropriate way of capturing the spirit and the history of the nation's high-technology heartland. As awkward as the name sounds, it reflects the reality that for the last four decades the valley has been as dependent on magnetic disk drives made of iron ferrite and subsequent materials as it has been on computer chips made of silicon. 
 The semantic case has been harder to make since I.B.M.'s announcement on April 16 that it intended to sell much of its business in magnetic disk data storage to Hitachi. But Mr. Hoagland, who is the director of the Institute for Information Storage Technology at Santa Clara University and who in the 1950's was one of the developers of the original I.B.M. Ramac hard-disk drive, recalls a computer technology era that began before either the chip maker Shockley Semiconductor or its first offspring, Fairchild Semiconductor, arrived on the scene. 
Indeed the valley was once bounded to the north in Redwood City by Ampex, which made magnetic tape recorders for storing computer data, and to the south in San Jose. There, a half-century ago, I.B.M. began research that would lead to the first rotating disk system for storing computer data.
The disk drive not only had a crucial role in I.B.M.'s early dominance of mainframe computing. Two decades later it was a factor in the role the I.B.M. PC XT had in corporate acceptance of personal computing. 
"I.B.M. had a unique situation in essentially having a product that no one else had," Mr. Hoagland said. "It revolutionized the computer industry, and I.B.M. systems rapidly gained market position."
Moreover, tucked away in the hills south of San Jose, I.B.M.'s Almaden Research Center has long been considered one of the company's and the nation's science and technology jewels. Researchers at the laboratory have routinely made industry-leading technological advances in magnetic-drive data storage. Now, a still undetermined part of that research laboratory will become part of a joint venture to be 70 percent owned by Hitachi. 
So there was some amount of quiet grumbling here in the days after the announcement of the multibillion-dollar I.B.M.-Hitachi deal, as many technologists wondered whether the computer maker was not mortgaging its future. 
Does I.B.M. actually have a grand strategy in data storage, or has the company's new chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano, simply opted for an expedient way to improve I.B.M.'s balance sheet?
One theory is that I.B.M. blinked in the face of tough competition and management mistakes that have caused its disk-drive business to lose market share the last two years -- from nearly 25 percent of the market in 2000, to less than 10 percent in 2002's first quarter.
Stephen J. Luczo, chief executive of Seagate Technology, the disk-drive industry market leader, openly jokes that the hard-disk industry is not a business but a hair-raising extreme sport. 
Certainly, the disk-drive business has its own dynamics. 
"Unlike General Electric, where you can be in the top three in a particular business and be a world leader, in disk drives it doesn't matter," said David G. McKendrick, research director at the Information Storage Industry Center at the University of California at San Diego. "I.B.M. was in the top three, but it doesn't matter if you're not making any money." 
In fact, it may take a peculiar kind of ompany to stay alive in a fast-paced industry that has now had the second merger among its leaders in the last two years. In October 2000, Maxtor, the No. 2 disk-drive maker, acquired the hard-disk operations of Quantum. 
The technology is changing even faster. The areal density of disk drives -- the amount of data that can be squeezed onto the spinning platter of a disk drive -- has been doubling annually. At the same time, prices have been in free fall. The price that computer makers have paid for simple single-platter drives has fallen to less than $70 from $150 in just five years. 
Execution of each new generation of technology has to be flawless or else market share can collapse overnight. And in fact I.B.M.'s capitulation to Hitachi appears to have been at least in part precipitated by a disastrous stumble the company made while shifting the manufacturing operations of its highest-margin disk-drive business market to Fujisawa, Japan, in 1999. The delays caused I.B.M. to more or less miss an entire product generation and sales cycle. 
Numbers from Gartner, the information technology consulting firm, show that in a single year I.B.M.'s own storage system business went from buying 80 percent of its drives from the I.B.M. subsidiary to only 10 percent. So by handing off much of its disk-drive business to Hitachi, I.B.M. may have simply given up trying to keep pace. 
There is, however, another, more intriguing possibility. For decades, critics have been predicting the imminent obsolescence of hard-disk drives as technologies like optical disks and flash semiconductor memory come to the fore. I.B.M. may have finally decided that the writing is indeed on the wall. 
The computer maker, in other words, may be taking a big gamble that its research in molecular-scale electronics and other so-called nanotechnologies will in a decade or so make spinning magnetic storage disks obsolete. 
"I.B.M. is abdicating the next 10 years and betting on the future," said John Monroe, a market researcher and a vice president at Gartner. 
It is exciting to think that he might be right. With a sleight of hand, I.B.M. might be telegraphing a new data storage world that will open vistas even more remarkable than an Iron Ferrite Valley. 
But if I.B.M. is betting more than a decade into the future, it is keeping a poker face. "We've been working on all these things," Robert Morris, director of the Almaden lab, said of the experimental storage technologies. "They're all interesting, and they all have promise, but there isn't anything on the horizon that is certain to replace the hard-disk drive."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (91%); HISTORY (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); HARD DRIVES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); MARKET SHARE (62%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESEARCH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NANOTECHNOLOGY 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; HITACHI LTD 

INDUSTRY:  SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (55%) MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



731 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Vivendi Wants New Voting Amid Fears on Tampering
Jean-Marie Messier, chief executive of Vivendi Universal, is reconvening shareholders on June 3, confident that their rejection of crucial resolutions can be reversed.
 Vivendi also announced that it would seek to prosecute those thought to have tampered with shareholder voting at the meeting last week. Vivendi discovered anomalies after big stockholders complained that votes they had cast in favor of one proposal seemed to have been registered as abstentions. Page C2. 

Booksellers Gather in New York
For the first time in a decade, the booksellers convention is returning to New York, home to more writers, editors and literary party-crashers than any other town. The event, BookExpo America, has evolved into the Super Bowl of book promotion. The performance artist and author Philippe Petit, left, will do dare-devil stunts on the tight rope. C6.

Dan Rather to Extend CBS Contract
CBS News is close to completing an agreement to extend Dan Rather's contract by up to three years, a deal that would keep him employed at CBS through 2006, people close to the negotiation said. C2.

Macromedia to Lay Out Strategy
Macromedia, the publisher of the popular Flash Internet media player, plans to unveil a course today to secure its role in the next generation of the Internet. C4.

Slate Picks Editor After Contest
The contest for the editorship of Slate has concluded. Jacob Weisberg, the Web site's chief political correspondent, won over Jack Shafer, the deputy editor of Slate. C6.

Technologists Question I.B.M. Move
There was some quiet grumbling in Silicon Valley about I.B.M.'s decision to spin off its computer disk-drive business to Hitachi. Many technologists wondered whether I.B.M. was mortgaging its future. New Economy. C3.

EBay Spawns Online Liquidators
Online liquidators are the newest cottage industry that owes its existence to eBay, the auction site. Liquidators take unwanted merchandise from retailers and auction it online. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Broadcasters to Miss Key Deadline
Almost three-quarters of the commercial broadcasters that were supposed to be offering a digital signal by Wednesday will fail to make the deadline. The federally mandated transition to digital broadcasting is taking longer than the planners had expected. C6.

Rivals Push BlackBerry's Parent
Despite the popularity of its flagship product, the BlackBerry wireless messaging device, Research in Motion, known as RIM, is struggling. An array of competitors, some with far deeper pockets, are chipping away at its lucrative niche. RIM, meanwhile, is banking on the newest BlackBerry, known as the 5810, left, to open more doors. C3.

Hewlett-Packard Seeks Absolution
Hewlett-Packard has asked a judge to absolve its chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, and its chief financial officer, Robert P. Wayman, of wrongdoing in gathering votes for an $18.3 billion bid for Compaq Computer. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,910.72 down 346.39Nasdaq composite -- 1,663.89 down 132.9410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.05% down 0.14The euro -- $0.9017 up 0.0099The dollar -- 128.08 yen down 2.33 Graph "TODAY" shows personal income since September 2001.March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Expected: +0.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUCTIONS (88%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (87%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); WEB SITES (76%); LITERATURE (75%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (66%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (63%); RETAILERS (61%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (54%); JUDGES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (95%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (95%); VIV (BIT) (95%); RIM (TSX) (51%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC1623 WATER; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



732 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk; 
Slate Picks a Successorto Michael Kinsley

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
The bake-off for the editorship of Slate, an online magazine owned by Microsoft, has concluded, and Jacob Weisberg, the Web site's chief political correspondent, will take the cake.
 Mr. Weisberg beat out Jack Shafer, the deputy editor of Slate, after each took a turn as editor once Michael Kinsley announced he was stepping down in February. 
 At the time, Mr. Kinsley said outside candidates would be considered, but in the end the choice of a replacement came down to the two veterans of Slate.
"At a certain point in the process, I realized that in Jake and Jack we had two bona fide No. 1 candidates," said Scott Moore, general manager of MSN News and Information, who oversees Slate and made the decision in consultation with Mr. Kinsley. "In all honesty, it was one of the toughest business decisions I have ever made. Last week, Mike and I talked about flipping a coin. It was that close."
Ultimately they decided that Mr. Weisberg would be the better steward of the magazine, which was created in 1996.
"He is a brilliant journalist who has already had a great career as a writer," Mr. Kinsley said. "Many of the more successful editorial ideas on Slate are his -- he came up with the Today's Papers feature, for instance -- and he thinks very Webby. He has a gift for this."
Mr. Weisberg said he would like to broaden the range of topics covered by the Web site. "Slate has a strong orientation toward politics, policy and economics, and some very good arts and cultural comment," he said. "I'd like to increase the quantity of cultural comment with more music, perhaps a TV column and more lifestyle stuff."
Mr. Weisberg, who has been a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine and has also written for Vanity Fair, Newsweek and The New Republic, will remain in New York, where he shares an office with two other employees. He will supervise by phone and e-mail an editorial staff of 30, in Redmond, Wash., and Washington.
For the time being, Mr. Shafer, who lauded Mr. Weisberg's talents, will remain at Slate. "Like any other working journalist, if a better offer were to arrive, I might consider it, but I doubt a better offer is going to present itself," Mr. Shafer said.
Mr. Weisberg said Mr. Shafer would "continue to be a major part of the magazine as long as he wants to be." Mr. Kinsley mentioned that Mr. Shafer, who has covered the media for years, might become "the A. J. Liebling of the online world." 
Like many other online sites, Slate has had an easier time garnering an audience than figuring out how to turn those visits into profit.
In March, Slate had 3.2 million unique visitors, a huge number considering that back in 1997, Slate had just 100,000 unique visitors. Other news and information sites have visitors in the millions, but most are built off the legacy of traditional media.
According to Mr. Moore, Slate is garnering additional traffic from a closer integration with msn.com, Microsoft's umbrella site for consumers. DAVID CARR

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacob Weisberg was named editor of the online magazine Slate. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); POLITICS (78%) MAGAZINES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: WEISBERG, JACOB; SHAFER, JACK; KINSLEY, MICHAEL; CARR, DAVID; MOORE, SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



733 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Charleston's Dominance In Shipping Is Threatened 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., April 28 

 BODY:
This city's identity has been lashed to its seaport since the first colonists settled the peninsula in 1680 and immediately set about trading with England and the world. It remained a port city as sailing ships gave way to the steamships of the industrial age, right up to today's superships piled high with containers of computers and cars.
 But after three centuries in which what was good for the shipping industry was seen as good for the city and region, Charleston has gotten over its love affair with the working waterfront. 
 The port has boomed since the 1970's. It is second only to New York as the busiest on the East Coast and is the fourth-busiest in the country. A decade ago state officials began planning a major expansion on Daniel Island, once a vast hunting playground for the Guggenheim family. The island juts into the harbor and was connected to the mainland by an interstate highway only recently. 
But that plan was dealt a death blow in the South Carolina Legislature last week, the victim of an unusual coalition of conservative Republicans and conservationists, of African-American workers and wealthy whites.
The result will be years of costly delay, port officials say, and possibly the beginning of the end for Charleston's dominance of shipping in the Southeast. Its shipping lines are intimating that they would happily steer their cargo, and jobs, to more hospitable waters 105 miles to the south in Savannah, Ga., the officials say.
The quandary could hardly have been foreseen 10 years ago, when B.M.W. chose Spartanburg, S.C., for its first American plant, lured by tax incentives, an antiunion environment and access to Charleston's docks. As a parade of automakers, pharmaceutical companies and other manufacturers began using the port, Charleston found itself at the crossroads of a new global Southern economy. Officials began planning a port for Daniel Island that would be as big as downtown Charleston and have a name to match: the Global Gateway.
For a state with few crown jewels, the seaport was a source of pride: South Carolina's schools might rank near the bottom; its rural areas might be mired in poverty; but its port, the state liked to say, was world class.
Today, however, the port's critics are turning that around, asking whether the millions of dollars needed to expand it would be better spent on education or rural development.
Dana Beach, the leader of the South Carolina Coastal Conservation League and of the opposition to the Daniel Island plan on environmental grounds, also questions the premise that the port is an engine of growth, noting that the state's manufacturing output fell in the 1990's despite soaring container-ship traffic. "A bigger port means a bigger port, more jobs on the waterfront," Mr. Beach said. "But not an enhanced state economy."
The port's sinking stature here is partly a function of a changing public and largely the fault of the State Ports Authority, even its own officials say.
If Charleston's port was booming in the 1990's, its tourism and real estate industries were exploding, and drawing thousands of new residents. Richard Elliott, chairman of the chamber of commerce, said the newcomers had little affection for the gritty port. "We've had an in-migration of people who like the Spanish-moss-draped oaks, who can do business here as easily as anywhere, and once they get here, they're focused solely on protecting their quality of life," Mr. Elliott said.
This attitude, he said, was unfair to the largely black work force on the docks and in the port's warehouses. "What about the quality of life for the greater number of citizens who haven't made it yet?" he said.
David Blair, who built a warehouse near the Daniel Island site, blames the "rich white people" who have moved into a neighborhood nearby. They knew full well that the port had plans for the tract next door, Mr. Blair said, but now they are crying "not in my backyard."
Mr. Blair, who is white and a member of the same yacht club as many of those opposed to the expansion, warned, "They're killing the goose that laid the golden egg."
Racial lines on the issue are not so distinct, however. The first opposition to the Daniel Island site arose nearby in Cainhoy, a former plantation whose residents include descendants of slaves who worked the land they now own. Fred Lincoln, a retired firefighter whose two brothers are longshoremen, said the State Ports Authority tried in 1998 to bully several Cainhoy residents into selling at bargain prices so it could build a rail line to the port complex. Two elderly women sold their property, he said, unaware that the authority did not yet have permission to build.
Mr. Lincoln said he was surprised to find that conservative Republican lawmakers, who increasingly bridled at what they saw as the Ports Authority's highhanded ways, proved Cainhoy's staunchest defenders.
The uproar over Daniel Island reached a fever pitch in 1999, when port officials issued a preliminary environmental impact statement that laid out their ultimate dream for the site in coming decades: berths for 12 vessels and more than a thousand acres of terminal space.
Critics saw in the same document a nightmare of trucks overrunning local highways, spewing fumes and ruining neighborhoods and ways of life. Port officials scaled back their plan, but never convinced opponents that the more ambitious plans would not be dusted off someday.
Now, though, those plans appear quite dead. The Legislature directed the Ports Authority last week to abandon Daniel Island and study expansion at the former Navy base across the Cooper River in North Charleston. The authority says it will comply, though it warns that a container port there will cost far more. The mayor of North Charleston is promising to sue, which means that a new terminal could still be five or more years away, more than enough time for Savannah to become the South's pre-eminent port, officials say.
John Hassell, president of Charleston's Maritime Association and a new member of the Ports Authority board, said expansion was still vital but repairing the agency's relations with residents and political leaders must come first.
"This authority has a reputation of arrogance that it got the old-fashioned way," Mr. Hassell said. "It earned it -- partly because it didn't need anybody for so many years, because it could operate on its own and pay its own way."

GRAPHIC: Map of South Carolina highlighting Savannah and Charleston: Charleston's fortunes have been linked to shipping since 1680. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); TAX LAW (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) PORTS; LABOR; BLACKS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (93%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CHARLESTON (SC); SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); SAVANNAH (GA)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



734 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Foundations for Lower Manhattan 

 BODY:
After months of delay, there has been noticeable progress recently in plans to rebuild Lower Manhattan. Gov. George Pataki, whose name tops the list of public officials in charge, has finally sent a strong message to the various governing boards that it is time to set up a workable process for reimagining and rebuilding downtown. The focus has already begun to show in many areas, such as requests for design concepts by July for the memorial and surrounding buildings at ground zero. But the most encouraging sign is that city and state leaders have given their attention to the area's transit needs. 
 Transportation is the foundation of the revival of Lower Manhattan -- the underpinning of any real renewal. The Pataki administration's first effort at a transit plan left a sour aftertaste in Washington, since the governor's $54 billion wish list stretched as far as Schenectady. Louis Tomson, president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, narrowed the possibilities considerably when he recently presented Congressional leaders with proposals for $7.4 billion in transportation fixes in the area. 
 Even that price tag struck some Washington officials as a fantasy. It is ambitious, but it at least opened a crucial conversation between Mr. Tomson's group and the people in Washington. Congressional leaders will now need to see the more detailed and artful projections about timing, cost and workability.
The most important projects, taken together, would vastly improve the flow of people through the city's downtown tangle of rail and subway lines. The first priority is a new PATH terminal that would include an underground corridor and moving walkways to a downtown transit center near Fulton Street for an estimated $2.8 billion. There is also a $400 million expansion of the South Ferry terminal linking subways to ferries. The ferries are providing emergency service for more than 60,000 people, almost the same number who took the PATH trains before the line was damaged.
Other proposals need more debate and certainly more fleshing out. They include $80 million for the "Rector connector," which would link the 1 and 9 lines to the N and R lines along Rector Street, and $2 billion to put West Street underground so that it passes under Chambers Street, making more room for a park or memorial. Another proposal would use $200 million for a study and new underground "portal" structure, which could be used if rail service was ever expanded from Long Island. Mr. Tomson's group did not include a Second Avenue subway, an expensive proposition that would relieve serious overcrowding along Manhattan's East Side. While this is a worthy project that deserves attention, it is unrealistic to expect the bill to be paid by federal funds designated to rebuild Lower Manhattan.
To start work on the most vital transit projects, Congress should shift some funds so that urban transportation experts can follow through on their next round of planning. At this point, the 1 and 9 lines are being restored with insurance money. Beyond that, President Bush has proposed only $1.8 billion in federal support for downtown transportation. Congress could start by freeing up enough of the $21 billion coming to the city to finance the most crucial transit items at a cost closer to $4.5 billion. The construction crews have virtually cleared ground zero, and Mr. Pataki and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation have begun to tackle their task. Congress needs to pitch in to make it work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); FERRIES (86%); HIJACKING (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); TERRORISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (73%) EDITORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: TOMSON, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



735 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese Regime's Heir Apparent 

BYLINE:  By Bates Gill; Bates Gill is a senior fellow in foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution and author of the forthcoming "Contrasting Visions: The United States, China, and World Order."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
He is the heir apparent to leadership of the world's largest country and largest standing army. He is expected to oversee a spectacular national socioeconomic transformation. Depending on your viewpoint, his country presents the United States with its greatest economic opportunities, most thorny foreign policy dilemmas or most serious long-term security challenges -- or all three. But do we know who he is?
 The vice president of China, Hu Jintao, will spend this week in the United States, meeting with President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, the Bush administration's top foreign policy and defense advisers, and Capitol Hill leaders. It is rare for a second in charge to receive such high-level official attention. But at a relatively young 59, Mr. Hu could be pivotal to United States-China relations for the next decade or more. 
 Yet expectations about this visit should be modest. Mr. Hu is little known in the United States or elsewhere outside of China and remains an enigmatic figure even among Chinese. And there are reasons to be cautious about his future leadership.
Born in one of China's poorest provinces, Mr. Hu studied hydraulic engineering before the disastrous Cultural Revolution in the 1960's. His career has been characterized by youthful ascent through duty in remote and backward places. At 42, he was the youngest provincial governor when he took charge of Guizhou in 1985. In 1988, he was appointed to govern Tibet, where, in 1989, he oversaw the violent suppression of Tibetan unrest and then maintained control in Lhasa during the Tiananmen crisis. His tough tactics in Tibet quickly won him kudos at home, but is the reason that protesters will dog his trips abroad.
Mr. Hu's ultimate rise came out of that period of turbulence. The Communist Party was shaken by Tiananmen, and in recovering stability, saw the need to promote younger but loyal men. Mr. Hu, tapped as a star of the "fourth generation" by Deng Xiaoping, was elevated 10 years ago to the Communist Party Political Bureau Standing Committee, where he joined a handful of others -- including President Jiang Zemin, Prime Minister Zhu Rongji and Li Peng, the head of National People's Congress -- at the pinnacle of power. Now he is not only vice president, but vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, a step away from leadership of the world's largest military.
Like others of his generation, he has little memory of pre-1949 China and the struggle and victory of the Chinese Communists, upon which much of the party's legitimacy stands. Instead, his formative years saw the most dreadful blunders of the Maoist era: the calamitous Great Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution and the mad schemes of the Gang of Four.
But in succeeding in politics during the reform years after 1978, Mr. Hu had to recognize the need for China to pursue a pragmatic course. Many observers, both in China and abroad, have high expectations that he will be a reformer, leading the Chinese regime toward greater openness and political change. Those who meet him agree he cuts an impressive figure: businesslike, confident and able to speak with authority. And yet his career has been successful because he has not made waves and has been a dutiful supporter of Jiang Zemin and the top governing group.
If selected to head the government, party and military, he will need to defer at least in the early years to the "elders," especially Jiang Zemin, who is expected to step down as party chief in October and to leave the presidency next spring. Like Mr. Jiang, Mr. Hu will operate as "first among equals" in a collective, consensus-oriented leadership structure, which will include many close proteges of Mr. Jiang. Having no military experience, and having served only three years on the Central Military Commission, Mr. Hu will need to be especially careful in his relations with the People's Liberation Army. And since he is a loyal and well-vetted product of the system, his moves toward political reform are likely to be tentative.
Still, Mr. Hu may be in a stronger position than Mr. Jiang was when he took over in 1989. Mr. Jiang was considered a compromise candidate hurriedly selected in the aftermath of Tiananmen. Mr. Hu has spent a decade observing and surviving the highest reaches of political power; Mr. Jiang returned to Beijing as something of an outsider from his post as mayor of Shanghai. And Mr. Hu's endorsement by Deng gives him a distinct advantage with China's elites, who see him as a welcome change from the self-absorbed Mr. Jiang.
But of course, nothing is certain given the tortured history of anointed successors in China: Liu Shaoqi was executed in prison, a victim of the Cultural Revolution; Lin Biao was killed in a mysterious plane crash after a coup attempt; Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang were both humiliated and politically exiled for pushing political reform. Reaching for too much can be a dangerous thing.
Mr. Hu's visit is an important opportunity and a bit of a test. American diplomats will be able to take measure of the presumptive leader while conveying messages about the promise and problems in United States-China relations. Mr. Hu's performance will be keenly analyzed in Beijing. He will have to use the American stage to perform a three-part balancing act: make a good impression; adhere to core Chinese positions on touchy issues like Taiwan, human rights and missile nonproliferation; and avoid upstaging his bosses back home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); DICK CHENEY (72%) GILL, BATES; HU JINTAO (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (94%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



736 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Going Is Tough for Clinton Library Campaign, Backers Say 

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
Bill Clinton has reached the home stretch of his campaign to raise $200 million for his presidential library, with about $145 million pledged so far, supporters of the library say. But some supporters are concerned that Mr. Clinton, the Democratic Party's most formidable fund-raiser, is facing an uphill struggle to reach his goal, because only $21 million that has been pledged is in the bank and they expect the last $55 million to be the hardest to raise.
 "People are very worried about the library right now," said one of Mr. Clinton's longtime friends, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "The farther away you get from Jan. 20, 2001, the harder it is to raise these big dollars. Fifty million is a hard nut when you no longer have the Oval Office." 
 After months of little fund-raising by Mr. Clinton and others, supporters of the library have begun gearing up for a final push to help the library meet its steep financial commitments in time for its scheduled opening in Little Rock, Ark., in 2004.
With its $200 million price, which includes the library foundation's endowment, it will be the most expensive of the country's 12 presidential libraries.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Clinton, Julia Payne, said that despite the concerns about the pace of the campaign, the former president has not had any trouble raising money or getting commitments for his library. Instead, he has devoted very little time in the last 15 months to the pursuit, focusing instead on raising money for dozens of other causes. Ms. Payne also predicted that Mr. Clinton would ultimately have no trouble raising the entire sum. 
Nonetheless, several factors have slowed the pace of commitments, including the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the furor over his last-minute pardon of Marc Rich, the fugitive commodities trader.
At a recent fund-raising dinner here for the library, Mr. Clinton seemed distracted and, in the words of one guest, "a little peeved." His spokeswoman said Mr. Clinton was exhausted after a long day of speeches and events. But some guests took his mood as a sign that all was not well with the campaign.
One of the 40 guests, most of whom were ambassadors during the Clinton administration, offered to help jump-start the fund-raising effort. Since the dinner, several prominent Democratic fund-raisers have expressed concern about the library foundation's financial health.
Last weekend, Mr. Clinton's friend Skip Rutherford held a two-day retreat in Little Rock to help organize the final push for contributions.
"We went over the 2002 fund-raising plan, and we looked at 2003 and 2004, where we are and where we need to be, what's been working and what needs fine-tuning," Mr. Rutherford said.
Most of the donations for the library have come from public sources, though large sums have been committed by several foreign governments, including Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Both nations also contributed to former President George Bush's $83 million presidential library on the campus of Texas A&M University in College Station.
The largest donations are being solicited by Terry McAuliffe, one of Mr. Clinton's closest friends and chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Mr. Rutherford is supervising the small-donor direct-mail campaign and efforts to raise money from Arkansans. Last month, the foundation hired Warwick Sabin as director of development to concentrate on donations of $5,000 to $100,000.
Mr. Clinton's supporters acknowledge that the efforts to raise money were sidetracked last year, and said that was by Mr. Clinton's choice. They said he believed that it would be inappropriate to press for large donations in the months after he left office after the House Committee on Government Reform, led by Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, subpoenaed records of all contributions and pledges of more than $5,000 to the library foundation.
Several longtime fund-raisers for Mr. Clinton said the Rich pardon had hampered fund-raising efforts. 
"The damage was awful," one supporter said. "It's hard to raise money when you have a grand jury subpoenaing documents from the library foundation." 
Ms. Payne, the Clinton spokeswoman, said: "If some people are concerned about not giving because they are still angry about the Marc Rich situation, we understand that. But people should look at the president's work during his post-presidency on religious and racial reconciliation, economic empowerment and citizen service here and around the world." Mr. Clinton has devoted himself to helping other causes raise large sums of money, she said.
Since leaving office 15 months ago, Mr. Clinton has attended 116 fund-raising events for the Democratic National Committee and other nonprofit organizations. He has helped raise money for a wide array of causes, including Emily's List, a national organization that supports candidates who are women and favor abortion rights, and the Rainbow PUSH coalition, which is led by the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
After the terrorist attacks, Mr. Clinton and former Senator Bob Dole established an education fund for the victims' children that is close to meeting its goal of $100 million. Mr. Clinton is to attend 10 fund-raising events for other groups in May.
Maggie Williams, chief of staff to Mr. Clinton, said, "From a common-sense point of view, the idea that he would have trouble raising money for his own library and no trouble raising money for the rest of the civilized world is kind of crazy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); POLITICS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (66%); TERRORISM (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (59%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARCHIVES AND RECORDS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON, WILLIAM JEFFERSON, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%) ARKANSAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) LITTLE ROCK (ARK)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



737 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Walk Back The Cat 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Intelligence analysts have a technique to reveal a foreign government's internal dissension called "walking back the cat." They apply what they now know as fact against what their agents said to expect. In that way, walkers-back learn who "disinformed" or whose mistake may reveal a split in a seemingly monolithic hierarchy. 
 Let us apply that examination in hindsight to a front-page article in last Thursday's New York Times with the headline "Arab Politics; Saudi to Warn Bush of Rupture Over Israel Policy." The source was identified only as a "person close to the crown prince" and "a person familiar with the Saudi's thinking." 
 The reporter, Patrick Tyler, is among the most experienced foreign correspondents in the business. Pat has resisted manipulation and seen through deceit during years in Moscow and Beijing, and we can trust his description of the Saudi source and the accuracy of the quotations. 
On the eve of the royal visit to President Bush at his Texas ranch, the "person close to Abdullah" declared that the crown prince would tell the president that unless U.S. support for Israel's military policies was moderated, the strategic relationship between their two countries would be threatened. The source warned "there was talk within the Saudi royal family and in Arab capitals of using the 'oil weapon' against the United States, and demanding that the United States leave strategic military bases in the region." Worse, "if that means we move to the right of bin Laden, so be it; to the left of Qaddafi, so be it; or fly to Baghdad and embrace Saddam like a brother, so be it."
Tough talk, but as we saw only a day later, the "expected" threats were not delivered. On the contrary, official spokesmen assured the world that no such "oil weapon" or booting-out of Americans was discussed. Instead, an eight-point Saudi memo was leaked restating positions the prince has taken for months. Rather than agree to the uncompromising terms, Bush spoke of a strong personal bond that he had developed with the prince. (When diplomatic stock falls, bond.) 
Now to walk back the cat. Here are some possibilities: 
1. The Saudi source was an uninformed hothead, speaking with no authorization from anyone close to the ruler, deliberately misleading us with no concern about the effect his smoke-blowing would have on his credibility. Highly unlikely. 
2. The Saudi source was indeed "familiar with" Abdullah's thinking, but that thinking changed radically in the day or two between the time the source spoke to the reporter and the time the Saudi ruler spoke to the president. Also unlikely. 
3. The Saudi source was acting on Abdullah's direct instructions to panic the president into one-sidedly denouncing the Israelis and treating Yasir Arafat as victim rather than terrorist. In this scenario, Saudi threats to the U.S. economy and military deployment would be issued but not attributed, allowing the crown prince to get the intimidating benefit of a threat he was too sly or squeamish to deliver personally. Possible. Or -- 
4. The Saudi source (and I'll never ask my colleague who it was, because the rule of background is more absolute than the rule of Saudi rulers) was trying to push Abdullah into getting tough with Bush. By putting out semiofficial word that Abdullah was "expected to tell" the president that America's oil supply and troop deployment were in jeopardy, he was putting pressure on the crown prince to issue just those warnings. 
That last cat walk is the most intriguing. It suggests that the Saudi leadership is not a monolith -- that those masters of manipulation, Prince Bandar and his powerful father, Defense Minister Sultan, disagree with Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal and with Adel al-Jubeir, the courtier who jumped from the Bandar camp into Abdullah's. 
Could it be that a struggle for power in Riyadh is being revealed? Last week's false "expectation" suggests that some royal sponsors of payoffs to terrorists worry most about losing control to bin Laden and rabble-rousers, while others near the throne worry most about losing U.S. military protection and markets if the kingdom pushes the U.S. too hard. 
As a result of the Saudi disinformation campaign, we can no longer be so certain which faction is in charge in Riyadh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); POLITICS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



738 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Israelis and Palestinians Agree to Plan on Ramallah
Israeli and Palestinian leaders agreed to a Bush administration compromise to end the armed siege of Yasir Arafat, overcoming the stalemate in Ramallah and freeing the Palestinian leader to travel the world for the first time in more than four months. The Israeli government, however, continued to resist the United Nations, blocking for now an international investigation of fighting this month in Jenin, in the West Bank. A1

Austria Mourns Victims of Nazis
The last remains of handicapped or mentally ill children experimented upon and then killed by the Nazis were buried in Vienna in a moving ceremony of remembrance and public apology. From 1940 to 1945, when Austria was a part of Hitler's Third Reich, at least 789 deformed or mentally handicapped children were killed at the clinic called Am Spiegelgrund as a part of the Nazis' program to rid society of "genetically impure" people. A3

Korean Families Reunited
North Korea welcomed a group of visitors from South Korea whose families were divided by the Korean War, but it also called for the resignation of South Korea's foreign minister. The family visits, the first since February 2001, were the result of efforts to renew dialogue that began with a visit to North Korea this month by Lim Dong Won, the official responsible for carrying out the reconciliation policies of South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung. A5

Vajpayee Warns the West
On Tuesday, the Indian Parliament will debate whether Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee's Hindu nationalist-led Bharatiya Janata Party was complicit in recent ethnic violence that has claimed the lives of more than 40 people in the last week and 900 people in the last two months. The situation has caused Mr. Vajpayee and others in his government to warn Western nations in recent days to stop lecturing India about the official failure to prevent Hindu mobs from killing hundreds of Muslims. A8

Chavez Revamps Cabinet
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela announced the appointment of a new vice president and promised changes in the country's economic policy team. Mr. Chavez's recent moves seem to be intended to appease the business leaders who formed a coalition that carried out a series of antigovernment protests in recent months, culminating in Mr. Chavez's brief ouster on April 12. A10

NATION CHALLENGED A14

Rockets Fired by Warlord Kill 25 in Afghanistan City
An Afghani warlord, Padshah Khan Zadran, and his soldiers killed 25 people by launching more than 200 rockets into Gardez, a city where Mr. Zadran was thwarted in an attempt to assume the governorship three months ago. The attacks are an example of recent violence involving warlords who are resurgent now that the Taliban are in disarray. A14

NATIONAL A15-22

Cardinal Says Only Vatican Can Make Changes Binding
Cardinal Bernard F. Law of Boston said at Mass that even if the Roman Catholic bishops in the United States work out new guidelines for handling clerical sexual abuse at their annual meeting in June, the proposals would still have to be approved by the Vatican before they are binding. A1

The pope's meeting with American cardinals at the Vatican last week, at which some cardinals suggested that gay priests were the problem, has angered and dismayed the flock at Most Holy Redeemer Catholic Church in San Francisco. The congregation is largely gay, and the sexual-abuse scandal is causing tension at the 100-year-old church. A18

Good News for Democrats
Republicans' eight-year domination of governorships could end this fall, party leaders say, and they fear such a turn would carry serious consequences for other Republicans in November and hinder President Bush's re-election drive in 2004. Party officials concede that they could lose governorships in Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin. Polls show that Republicans also face several other daunting battles. A16

Gov. Gray Davis of California has opened up a 14-point lead over Bill Simon, his Republican challenger, a poll shows. But 28 percent of the respondents were undecided, revealing a lack of enthusiasm for either candidate. A16

A Split on Terror Roles
White House and Justice Department officials are divided over whether to declare that local and state police departments have the power to track down illegal immigrants as a new tactic in the global war on terror. A1

Money for Clinton Library
Bill Clinton and others supporters of his presidential library have begun gearing up for a final push to help the library meet its financial commitments in time for its scheduled opening in Little Rock, Ark., in 2004. Mr. Clinton needs to raise $200 million for the library, and has $145 million pledged so far. But some supporters expect the last $55 million to be the hardest to raise. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Documents Suggest State Failed Home for Mentally Ill
Records show that the state has done nothing meaningful to improve or police Seaport Manor, an adult home for the mentally ill in Canarsie, Brooklyn. Workers say drug abuse, loan-sharking, prostitution and violence are commonplace at the home, a far cry from what was envisioned for Seaport a generation ago. A1

Never-Ending Tax Debate
Whether a tax increase can help New York City erase a $5 billion budget deficit inspires passionate arguments not only between the executive and legislative branches of government, but between business and labor groups, conservative and liberal groups, and economists. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says only a new cigarette tax is needed. B1

Help for Philanthropists
The Rockefeller family will formally announce the start of a nonprofit organization to help other wealthy individuals and families develop and manage their charitable giving. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

ARTS E1-8

Grammy Leader Resigns
Michael Greene, who as president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences ran the Grammy Awards ceremony for 14 years, has resigned. Mr. Greene said he stepped down because of philosophical differences with the academy's board. But he announced his decision at a board meeting called to discuss a sexual harassment lawsuit against him. E1

Selling 'Star Wars'
"Star Wars: Episode 2 -- Attack of the Clones" will open on May 16. Fans, retailers and theater owners are hoping this installment of George Lucas's science fiction series will outdo the previous one, "The Phantom Menace," which fell short of expectations despite selling $915 million in tickets. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Editor to Be Replaced
Jann Wenner, the owner of Wenner Media, says he is replacing his top editor at Rolling Stone and is planning to alter the magazine's format to increase sales. C1

Fox Gets Fooled
Joseph A. Cafasso, a military analyst for Fox News until March, left the cable network amid complaints over his office style. Now Fox and some of Mr. Cafasso's associates say the real problem is that he was not who he said he was. C1

A Web Player Looks Ahead
Macromedia Inc., the publisher of the popular Flash media player, plans to introduce a strategy today intended to make the company's software a significant component in the emerging Web services segment of the Internet. C4

Liquidating Online
Online liquidation has given retailers a new way to handle the product returns process. A consulting firm says that by using the Internet, retailers can shave their liquidation costs by 60 percent compared with selling returns to conventional brick-and-mortar outlets. C5

Books, Books and More Books
Bookstore owners and publishing executives from around the country gather in New York this week for BookExpo America, their annual convention. Hundreds of authors will compete for their attention. C6

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A23

Aleksandr I. Lebed
Governor of central Russia's sprawling Krasnoyarsk Province and a former Soviet paratroop commander who later played a crucial supporting role in the birth of Russian democracy, he was 52. A23

Ruth Handler
Creator of the billion-selling Barbie doll and a founder of the Mattel toy company, she was 85. A1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Foundations for Lower Manhattan; reviving AOL Time Warner; fried carcinogens.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert

Bridge E6
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather A20
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); KOREAN WAR (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); TALIBAN (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); RELIGION (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RESIGNATIONS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); HOLY SEE (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



739 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: At City Hall, Hot Debate On Tax Rise 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
When people talk about the causes of New York City's nearly $5 billion budget deficit -- that's billion, as in a five with nine zeroes after it -- they usually talk about the recession, the attack on the World Trade Center, and city spending that has risen faster than the rate of inflation in recent years.
 But a large chunk of the city's shortfall is, by some reckonings, self-inflicted: tax cuts enacted since 1995 will cost the city about $2.6 billion next year. 
 Now the question of whether the city should re-raise taxes is perhaps the most hotly debated issue in city government. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says no, with the exception of a steep cigarette tax. The City Council says yes, and is calling for an income tax increase to pay for new schools. 
Even with the $2.6 billion in tax cuts, New York remains the most highly taxed big city in the nation, according to the city's nonpartisan Independent Budget Office. The Giuliani administration cited the tax cuts as one of the reasons the city's economy boomed in the late 1990's. The economy was so strong then, and incomes rose so fast, that the city was able to collect more in taxes and spend more on services, even as it cut taxes.
Now that the economy is not so hot and tax revenue is down, with vital services like the Police and Fire Departments and the schools facing budget cuts, some fiscal watchdogs are pointing to those tax cuts as a source of the city's current fiscal woes.
"With the economy contracting, tax cuts that seemed affordable before now appear to be contributing to the city's substantial budget imbalance," warned a report released last month by the New York State Financial Control Board, which oversaw the city's budgets during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and now monitors them.
The issue, to tax or not to tax, inspires passionate arguments not only between the executive and legislative branches of government, but between business and labor groups, conservative and liberal groups, and economists.
Those against higher taxes argue that they would drive businesses and residents away just as the city is struggling to retain them. 
"You can't tax your way out of the problem," said Edmund J. McMahon Jr., a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research and policy center. "It will drive down the economy."
Those in favor of raising taxes argue that service cuts would pose an even greater risk of driving businesses and residents away, and add that the city should not cut services for its poorest residents without also asking sacrifices of the wealthy.
Glenn Pasanen, the associate director of City Project, a liberal public policy group, says that deep service cuts would endanger the quality of city life.
"It seems to us that it is just as likely that businesses would leave because of poor services: a poor educational system, poor housing, poor maintenance of bridges and roads, public safety issues," he said.
It is a sharp divide in a city where, more than most places, the phrase "tax and spend" has not always had negative connotations. And New York has unique spending requirements: it is the only major city that must pay a large share of the cost of public and medical assistance, costs usually covered by the state and federal governments. Several recent polls have suggested that New Yorkers would be open to some tax increases. But Mr. Bloomberg says he does not govern by polls.
The mayor has made three main arguments against raising taxes.
The first is pragmatic. To raise most taxes, the city must first get permission from the State Legislature, and Mr. Bloomberg notes that it is simply not realistic to expect state officials to approve tax increases in an election year. But critics say that this could, in effect, become a self-fulfilling prophesy: if you do not ask, they say, you will not receive. 
The mayor has dismissed such arguments. "Some people would say, 'Well, if you don't ask, you'll never find out,' " he said this month when he released his budget. "I have had extensive talks. I do not think in an election year there is any chance of Albany letting us raise taxes with the one exception of the cigarette tax."
Mr. Bloomberg's second argument is that taxes would dampen the city's economy, a theme he has hit on since his first day in office. "We cannot drive people and business out of New York," he proclaimed in his inaugural address. "We cannot raise taxes. We will find another way."
Experts of different ideological stripes differ on how damaging taxes are to the economy. Mr. McMahon, of the Manhattan Institute, estimates that one in four jobs created in the city since 1993 can be attributed to economic activity spurred by tax cuts.
But a report by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, says that the connection between tax increases and job loss in New York City is overstated, because in the past the city has tended to raise taxes when its economy faltered, so the underlying weak economy probably caused much of the job loss. And a report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal policy group based in Washington, concluded that tax increases on high-income families were less damaging to the economy than reductions in government spending on goods and services.
But Timothy J. Bartik, a senior economist at the Upjohn Institute, a nonpartisan research center based in Michigan that studies employment issues, noted, "The effects of taxes on jobs might vary quite a bit from suburb to suburb, city to city, or even for the same city at different periods in time."
Mr. Bloomberg's third argument against raising taxes is that a tax increase could lead the credit rating agencies to downgrade the city's bond ratings, and possibly lead to a takeover of the city's finances by the State Financial Control Board. Instead of raising taxes, the mayor's plan calls for borrowing $1.5 billion to help pay for the city's operating expenses, a practice usually frowned on by fiscal experts.
"And if the rating agencies saw you raise taxes as well as borrow, you would find you would lose your rating, which would dramatically increase our debt service cost, may freeze us out of the municipal markets, would start a control period," Mr. Bloomberg said recently.
Several ratings agency analysts disputed that, saying that higher taxes would not necessarily trigger a downgrade. One of them, Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, said: "We are concerned about structural budget balance. We are indifferent as to which side of the budget equation is used: It can be done either on the revenue side, on the expenditure side, or both."
Taxes are sure to be in the center of budget negotiations between the mayor and the City Council, which must pass the budget in June for the fiscal year beginning July 1.
Gifford Miller, the Council speaker, maintains that people are more likely to leave the city because of its troubled school system than because of a tax increase. The Council wants to earmark an income tax surcharge to pay for new schools. But the mayor wants control of the school system before he fights to get more money for it, aides say. 
The Council has no control over the two main taxes it wants to raise: the income tax surcharge, and the re-imposition of the commuter tax on people who work in the city but live elsewhere. Both actions would have to be approved in Albany.
And the Council has not proposed raising the one tax that it could raise without Albany's help: the property tax, whose rate has been frozen for a decade. Mr. Miller said he would prefer to raise the income tax so it could be staggered to hit the poor and middle class less.
Strictly speaking, neither tax that the Council is proposing would close the budget gap. The Council wants to borrow $5 billion to build new schools, and to use the $400 million that would be generated each year by its proposed income tax surcharge to pay off the debt. And it wants to use the $400 million to $500 million it expects from a re-instatement of the commuter tax to reduce the size of the $1.5 billion in borrowing that the mayor has proposed.
The budget math for the future is unforgiving. Even if Mr. Bloomberg is able to close the current deficit without resorting to higher taxes, he will still face larger deficits in the next few years projected to grow to more than $6 billion in 2006.
Perhaps this is why the mayor has taken to speaking about the difficulty in raising taxes "this year."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg backs raising only the cigarette tax. Gifford Miller, the Council speaker, supports tax increases to pay for new schools. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); CONSERVATISM (88%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INFLATION (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (54%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



740 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
On the Holding Of Coats, And Tongues

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
CANDIDATE Cuomo's camp, in a defensive mode since Andrew M. Cuomo described Gov. George E. Pataki as a valet, has come up with a creative notion for why the remark drew near-universal ire -- not because it was off the mark, as detractors contended, but because Sept. 11 has put even constructive criticism of the incumbent governor off limits.
 The very concept of a New York campaign turning into an exercise in eggshell-treading sounds a little like predicting that the Atlantic will be as calm as a lake all summer. Could Mr. Cuomo and his opponent in the Democratic primary for governor, H. Carl McCall, really be forced to practice rhetorical restraint? The larger question is whether the catastrophe of last September has changed the public dialogue altogether, whether certain people are considered unassailable and certain subjects unapproachable. 
 Short answer: no. The long answer: oh come on.
Just a cursory look at New Yorkers over the last several months suggests some course corrections, but no inclination to rewrite the rules of political engagement. 
Some things really have changed, especially the tendency to denigrate police officers after the torture of Abner Louima in a Brooklyn station house and the shooting death of the unarmed Amadou Diallo in the Bronx. Police officers won new respect; they, along with the always popular firefighters and other emergency workers, became national heroes. 
But even newfound respect for the police probably does not mean that if an allegation of police misconduct emerged tomorrow, the public would ignore it because of a groundswell of good will in the aftermath of Sept. 11.
Same with politicians, if not more so. Mr. Pataki's popularity rose significantly after the attack, polls show. But so did President George H. W. Bush's standing during the gulf war. Then he lost to Bill Clinton. 
The public's memory is notoriously short, and its sophistication can be notably nuanced. It is worth recalling that most New Yorkers opposed former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's pursuit of an extended term last year, despite their regard for his masterly leadership during the city's crisis.
Given that precedent, there seems little chance New Yorkers would object if either Mr. Cuomo or Mr. McCall questioned Governor Pataki's record on health care, the budget, education, contributions to improving the flagging upstate economy or role in rebuilding Lower Manhattan.
SO why the outcry when the eager Mr. Cuomo said that Mr. Pataki stood in Mr. Giuliani's shadow and "held the leader's coat" after Sept. 11? Objections centered as much on substance as on tone; what Mr. Cuomo said was at odds with the prevailing assessment of the governor.
Mr. Pataki did not show the commanding leadership that Mr. Giuliani did, but though he and the mayor had not had a good relationship, the governor seemed to deliberately and generously defer to the mayor. And though he made that embarrassing request for $54 billion from Washington for pork-filled aid, he also gave the city what it needed, like the authorization to break borrowing limits and quick public access to Medicaid.
With his insult, Mr. Cuomo sounded as though he was trying to take political advantage of the city's suffering. It was a bit like the campaign incident last year when a mayoral contender, Mark Green, was widely ridiculed for boasting that he would have done "as well or better" than Mr. Giuliani did guiding the city in the aftermath of the terrorist attack. He sounded brash, as Mr. Cuomo did this year.
The public does not like candidates to be brash about sensitive subjects, but that does not mean, as the Cuomo defense would have it, that Sept. 11 is above politics. It's just that, like race and religion, it is one of those sensitive subjects that force politicians to be on firm ground before they speak out.
"With respect, Andrew picked the wrong topic," said Maureen Connelly, a consultant who advised Michael R. Bloomberg during his campaign last year. "9/11 does not exempt any elected or appointed official from criticism. We still have a democracy; elected and appointed officials are still accountable for their actions. You can criticize anybody. It's up to the press and the public to determine if it's appropriate."
Which is what happened with the one-liner about the coat, and why Mr. Cuomo quickly shifted his language to focus on Mr. Pataki's leadership of the rebuilding effort. Could be that the campaign will be a tribute to substance, for once. Then again, the Atlantic is not and never has been calm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (73%); TERRORISM (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MISCONDUCT (69%); HIJACKING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (63%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%) PURNICK, JOYCE; CUOMO, ANDREW M; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



741 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: As Elections for Governor Loom, G.O.P. Leaders Worry 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis. 

 BODY:
Republicans' eight-year domination of governorships could end this fall, party leaders say, and they fear such a turn would carry serious consequences for other Republicans in November and hinder President Bush's re-election drive in 2004.
 Many Republicans are even predicting that considerable losses for the party in November are inevitable, particularly in the Midwest, which for nearly a decade has been a stronghold for Republican governors. 
 Of the 36 governor's offices at stake this year, 23, or nearly two-thirds, are held by Republicans. Party officials concede that they could lose governorships in Michigan, in Illinois and here in Wisconsin. Polls show that Republicans also face daunting battles in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, New Mexico, Arizona, Kansas and Rhode Island -- all states with Republican governors. 
"We'll have a tough time keeping what we've got, there isn't any doubt," said Clinton Key, executive director of the Republican Governors Association.
The discouraging outlook for Republicans, who have the governorships of every major electoral powerhouse except California, stems partly from past triumphs. In 1994, when Newt Gingrich led Republicans to seize control of the House, they also swept a majority of governorships. In 1998, many of those governors were re-elected.
This year, some of them are not allowed to run again because of term limits. Some governors have moved to other jobs, including in the Bush cabinet. Still others who are seeking re-election face economic storms that could imperil their chances.
Some officials expressed fear that voters may have tired of Republicans who arrived in office with heady promises of reform. They also said some voters might question whether Republicans are the best qualified to address budget tribulations.
The states where polls show Democrats are most endangered are not considered particularly critical on the electoral map: Alaska, Hawaii and New Hampshire. In the race for the most prized governorship, that of California, the White House had backed a losing candidate in the Republican primary and party officials now say it will be difficult, but not impossible, to oust Gov. Gray Davis. 
At the top of the list of endangered Republican incumbents, Mr. Key said, is Gov. Scott McCallum of Wisconsin, who moved up from lieutenant governor after Gov. Tommy G. Thompson resigned in February 2001 to become Mr. Bush's health and human services secretary.
First elected governor in 1986, Mr. Thompson had loomed as an enormously popular figure who had drawn sufficient support from moderates and Democrats to win re-election easily.
The climate is not so hospitable for Mr. McCallum. Many polls have shown him trailing likely Democratic opponents, although the most recent poll shows that he would run neck and neck with the two best known of his four potential Democratic rivals: Jim Doyle, the attorney general, and Representative Thomas M. Barrett. Moreover, Mr. McCallum's unfavorable ratings are higher than his favorable ratings.
In a sign of the uneasiness that has engulfed his organization, Mr. McCallum's two senior strategists and his chief fund-raiser quit recently, concerned about how the campaign was being run. A few days earlier, Mr. McCallum fired his chief of staff. 
Republicans here so miss Mr. Thompson that some commissioned a poll to see how he would do if he quit the cabinet and ran again for governor against his successor.
"Just my luck," Mr. McCallum replied when asked in an interview if he felt cheated that he became governor at a time of economic crisis.
Since he was not elected in his own right, Mr. McCallum noted, he had no honeymoon with voters, the news media and the Legislature.
"Lieutenant governors are very low-visibility," Mr. McCallum said. "In my case, particularly," because of "a very active, very dominating governor." He was speaking in his high-ceilinged Capitol office, which is remarkably uncluttered, as if he were a temporary occupant -- a marked change from when Mr. Thompson covered the office with stacks of papers and files accumulated over the years.
In 14 years in Mr. Thompson's shadow, Mr. McCallum, 51, who is most animated when chatting about coaching his children's sports teams, never established much of a political identity of his own. He and Mr. Thompson were not close, so the former governor never helped prepare his lieutenant to take over.
"With Thompson, he was never given anything substantial to do," said Don Kettl, a political science professor at the University of Wisconsin. "It's the Republicans' worst nightmare: McCallum came in without name recognition, without a real record and on the heels of Tommy Thompson's popularity. And then he's facing all these problems."
Mr. McCallum inherited a budget deficit of more than $1 billion. He addressed it by proposing deep cuts in aid to local governments, infuriating municipal and county leaders. He defends his approach, saying he would not dare raise taxes.
Mr. Thompson would have faced similar budget difficulties if he were still governor, Mr. McCallum said, adding that his predecessor "said he would have made many of the same decisions I made."
Asked if Mr. Thompson would have enjoyed more good will from the voters, Mr. McCallum said he would not speculate, but added, "Maybe they'd be more open to say it's time for a change."
White House officials say they are focused on Wisconsin because Mr. Bush would stand a better chance of capturing this state in 2004 if there was a Republican governor whose state operation could help the ticket. The last Republican presidential contender to carry Wisconsin was Ronald Reagan in 1984. But White House officials say it is in reach: Al Gore barely won Wisconsin in 2000 with 47.8 percent, to 47.6 percent for Mr. Bush. That explains why Mr. Bush traveled here in February in one of his first fund-raisers since Sept. 11 to raise about $1 million for Mr. McCallum.
Mr. McCallum has responded to criticism from many Republicans that he initially surrounded himself with advisers who were not ready to run the state. Mr. Bush's advisers said they welcomed the governor's decision to install Darrin Schmitz as his campaign manager. Mr. Schmitz, a former Thompson aide, is close to the White House; he ran the Bush campaign in Wisconsin in 2000.
"He's had some relatively new and less experienced people and decided to make some changes," said Jim Klauser, a utilities executive who for years was Mr. Thompson's top adviser. Contrasting Mr. McCallum to his old boss, he said: "It's hard to follow in someone's footsteps. Remember the coaches that followed Vince Lombardi? It's not easy to do." Mr. Klauser added: "The next governor will be measured by how hard Tommy worked. He was everywhere."
Mr. McCallum is not quite as attuned to business of the state as his predecessor, and he was known for his regular afternoon basketball games when he was the No. 2. He said, "My mantra has been that if President Bush runs two hours a day, why shouldn't I be able to play basketball two times a week?"
As evidence of how little Mr. McCallum has to run on, his aides issued a roster of his accomplishments in 2001. But the first item on the list was that he "held three historic inaugural events," including "the first ever" in Fond du Lac and Milwaukee. 
Democrats are savoring their opportunities. Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Governors' Association, said his party was in a commanding position in part because of "just the serendipity of the numbers." But he said there were enormous implications because "with great deference to many U.S. senators, the states in the last two decades have been the incubators for future presidential candidates."
Reviewing the landscape, Mr. Glendening said: "We should regain a majority. The question is, how many? At minimum we should pick up four; at best seven."
Terry McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said of the governors' races: "That's going to be our greatest win this year. This is our biggest strategy for '04: winning governorships." 
Mindy Tucker, the communications director of the Republican National Committee, who was an official in Mr. Bush's campaign, said she was worried that the party was more preoccupied with winning back the Senate.
Of the governors' contests, Ms. Tucker said: "This is an impossible task for us and not everybody is focused on it because they're spending so much time on the Senate. The Republican governors were a large force in the president's election in 2000 and would be in 2004. They're also important policywise because much of what we're doing on welfare and other things is returning power to the states."
Mr. McCallum insisted that he was not shrinking from taking painful steps to improve his political position. He confirmed a report in The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel about the exchange he recently had when he fired Mike Rogowski as his chief of staff.
"Who did this to me?" Mr. McCallum said his aide asked him at a private meeting.
"I did," the governor responded.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "AT STAKE: State Capital Shifts"Party affiliation of the nation's governors after inaugurations each year. Graph tracks democrats, republicans, independents, and other parties from 1980-2000. Map of the United States shows current party control of governorships. States with names in bold are ones with elections for governor this November. (Source: National Governors Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TERM LIMITS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%) GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; STATES (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%) ;BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ILLINOIS; MICHIGAN; WISCONSIN; PENNSYLVANIA; TENNESSEE; NEW MEXICO; ARIZONA; KANSAS; RHODE ISLAND; MIDWESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



742 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treasury Bills And Other Debt Planned This Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today and a four-week bill on Tuesday.
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.69 percent, on the six-month issue 1.83 percent and on the four-week bill 1.63 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX-EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
Hazel Park School District, Mich., $54.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Scottsdale, Ariz., $68 million of debt securities. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Berkeley, S.C., $85 million of debt securities. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Brazos River Harbor Navigation District, Brazoria County, Tex., $466 million of debt securities for Dow Chemical. Goldman, Sachs.
California Department of Water Resources, $186.4 million of refunding revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
California Sutter Health, $150 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
Empire State Development Corporation, $225 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Lewisville, Tex., Independent School District, $100 million of debt securities. First Southwest.
Maine Municipal Bond Bank, $84.6 million of debt securities. UBS PaineWebber.
Maricopa County Stadium District, Ariz., $65 million of revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Massachusetts, $275 million of gas tax special obligation bonds. Bear, Stearns.
Michigan Transportation, $89.7 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
New Mexico State Highway Commission, $69.3 million of highway infrastructure fund revenue bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation, $516 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority, $260 million of economic development revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Wisconsin tobacco, $1.7 billion of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
Woodhaven-Brownstown School District, Wayne County, Mich., $56.5 million of 2002 school building and site general obligation bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons.

TAXABLE

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Temple-Inland, $500 million in two parts of senior notes, Baa3/BBB/---. Salomon Smith Barney.
Verizon New England, $300 million of 40 year $25 par senior debt; 12 million of $25 par of senior debt due 2042, Aa2/A+/---. Morgan Stanley.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Fitch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); TAX LAW (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); FUEL TAX (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); WATER QUALITY (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (80%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (66%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (56%); SUTTER HEALTH (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); TEMPLE-INLAND INC (53%); VERIZON NEW ENGLAND INC (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); RY (TSX) (66%); RY (SWX) (66%); RY (NYSE) (66%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (80%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (66%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002 



743 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH/Eric J. Heller; 
Not-So-Quantum Leap From Physics to Art

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA DREIFUS 

 BODY:
For years, Dr. Eric J. Heller, 56, fostered Walter Mitty-ish fantasies of someday emerging as an acclaimed visual artist. Between his regular scientific work for institutions like Los Alamos, Harvard and U.C.L.A., Dr. Heller managed to win for himself occasional showings of his landscape paintings and photos.
None of the exhibitions, however, led to much. Indeed, for many years, Dr. Heller could best be described as a scientist with a serious hobby.
 Then, in the mid-1980's, while employed at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr. Heller began creating something new. Using recently developed computer technologies as his paintbrush, he started making images of his visions of the physical world. 
 The pieces, often resembling 1960's Op Art, began to be shown to gatherings of scientists around the country and attracting critical attention.
"Eric Heller is drawn to the subatomic world the way Monet was drawn to water lilies," Harvey Blume, the critic, wrote in Art New England after viewing a show. "Electron flow, subatomic collisions, the being and nothingness of quantum foam these are the abiding concerns, the haystacks and sunsets of his art."
Dr. Heller, who still works at his day job as a physics professor at Harvard spoke over coffee in New York. His most recent show, "Approaching Chaos," is at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington until May 12. It then travels to the Chicago Academy of Sciences.

Q. As a child, did you want to be a scientist or an artist?

A. Scientist. I had a famous father, Walter W. Heller, John F. Kennedy's chief economist. Though I admired my father, I wanted to do something different from what he did. I was good at math and science, and my father, paradoxically, was not. You'd think that an economist would be. He was good at numbers. But that's different from calculus.
At first, I wanted to be a biochemist. But when I studied physics, I abandoned biology. I loved the simplicity of physics, the feeling that I could understand almost everything about a problem.

Q. Did you want to be Richard Feynman?

A. I would have loved to have been. He was mathematically brilliant and had the most amazing physical intuition. But he wasn't the one I was exposed to. It was Julian Schwinger, because I did my graduate studies at Harvard. Schwinger and Feynman shared the Nobel Prize with Sin-Itiro Tomonaga in 1965 for basically the same kind of development.
But Schwinger's approach was extremely formal and mathematical, and Feynman's was almost intuitive and visual. He invented the Feynman diagrams, which are beautiful ways of depicting interactions between particles. Schwinger rarely used pictures, and the story goes that he forbade the use of the Feynman diagrams at Harvard.

Q. What kind of physics do you do?

A. I'm sort of a low-energy physicist. I'm concerned with ordinary energies, not the kind of things that are done with accelerators. I've worked on quantum corrals, which are beautiful things invented by Don Eigler at I.B.M. They are made by moving atoms around one at a time and building tiny fences. So I worked on a theory of those, explaining the electron wave patterns that are seen in quantum corrals.
I love quantum mechanics, and all that I've done has been based on matter really being a wave and trying to understand the implications of that. My work has mostly been with what are called "semiclassical approximations."
This involves trying to understand quantum mechanics by using the previous theories of classical mechanics. We've learned to go from the ray tracing of the trajectories or particle paths of the classical mechanics of the 19th century to the wave mechanics of the 20th century.

Q. At what point in your physics career did you start making art?

A. When I was out at U.C.L.A., teaching in the 1970's. I was doing oil paintings and photography, mostly Western landscapes. In my free time, I had shows. I even sold work.
By the late 70's, I took a job at Los Alamos because I wanted to do more art and check out the New Mexico art scene, which turned out to be tough to break into. I had no serious art credentials. And there were no bridges between the scientific and the art world. 
At Los Alamos, however, by accident, I found myself building my own bridge by doing better and better graphics to explain my science. As I was doing this, I kept wondering if there was any real interaction between the science and the art?
And indeed, it turned out, there was. In making more refined diagrams about the science, I discovered new phenomena. For instance, I found this phenomenon called "scarring," where quantum waves bear definite "scars" of classical trajectories, by doing artistic rendering of data. 
I was -- and still am -- studying something called "random waves," which are an aspect of quantum chaos that happens when waves come in from all directions at once. People knew the properties of these waves mathematically. But they had never actually looked at the waves. I made pictures and found some amazing things and then published papers about them. 
So by 1985, I was thinking, O.K., I'm a scientist, but I can have fun and even do science while making these images. 

Q. Tell us about your artistic work methods?

A. The best images come serendipitously. I'm working on some scientific principle, some project, and I notice that the visualization has some possibilities. I stop working on the science and start doing images, instead.
The images are first seen on a computer screen. I take this data and render it in various ways, experimenting. There is a point when I say, "I'm stopping now in making pictures for my scientific article, and I am doing art."

Q. Do your pictures transform themselves?

A. They have a life of their own. There's a certain thing about nature which I love. It's the way nature repeats itself in many different contexts and on many different scales. A simple example would be the "electron flow" image series I've made.
It looks like so many other things I've seen: land forms, looking through curtains of kelp. It's as if the electron flows mimic a medium of some sort that does some of the drawing for me just as watercolors, with skilled use, can mimic many objects we recognize without much effort.
So, I think that in some sense the physics I'm investigating becomes a medium through which I can create images.

Q. Many professional scientists have said to me, "If only people could see what I see, they'd understand science better." Is that what you are trying to do?

A. That's exactly what I am trying to do. It's a little like the artist Albert Bierstadt, whose 19th-century paintings of the American West became well known in Europe. Through hard work and effort, he got to see things that Europeans couldn't easily see, but through his eyes they could. I feel like I'm doing that. I feel that through hard work and effort I am able to see these wonderful aspects of nature and I want other people to see what I can see.
Through art one can sometimes get straight to the essence of the matter and almost get an intuitive comprehension that might otherwise take years of study.

Q. Are you saying to the viewer, "This is what the invisible parts of the universe look like"?

A. Of course, I can't actually. This is why it's "art." Someone else could come up with a different representation of what they think this looks like.

Q. So you are saying, "This is what I believe this stuff looks like"?

A. No. I don't believe it looks like exactly what I'm doing. I have an emotional response. It's based loosely on what is "really" happening. I want the viewer to have that same feeling and emotion.

Q. John Maeda, the M.I.T. computer artist, has claimed that in the future all artists will have to be computer programmers. Do you agree?

A. I hope not. But I am one. All the images are created originally from some low-level computer program. In other words, it is written by hand to create data. Almost all of it I've written myself. Only later, much later, when I'm adding the final touches, I might use Photoshop.

Q. What do your Harvard colleagues think about your beautiful new career?

A. Ten years ago, I would have gotten a lot of skepticism and wondering, "Is this guy flaking out?" But people see me working hard and publishing, as well as doing this art. They've been supportive. Besides, everyone recognizes how important science communication is.
The National Science Foundation actually requires you to write into your grant proposals how you intend to communicate your work to the public. So my colleagues think, If Heller can communicate to a broader public through art, that's great.

Q. Do you feel you are happier now that your second career is thriving?

A. I'm a busier person. There was a moment at the opening of the first show where there were about 100 people milling around the gallery, examining my images with the same intensity that I had studied other people's work, and then it suddenly hit me: I am an artist!
You know what, that was like a lifelong ambition satisfied in a few moments. I loved it. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Eric J. Heller, a physics professor, with one of his works. His show, "Approaching Chaos," is in Washington and will move to Chicago. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MATHEMATICS (87%); PAINTING (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); CALCULUS (71%); BIOCHEMISTRY (61%) ART; PHYSICS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%)

PERSON: HELLER, ERIC J (DR); DREIFUS, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW MEXICO, USA (58%); NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



744 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Nothing's Easy for New Orleans Flood Control 

BYLINE:  By JON NORDHEIMER 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Caught between the Mississippi and the long shoreline of Lake Pontchartrain, this low-lying city has long depended on levees and luck.
 Now engineers say those are not enough to protect New Orleans, much of it below sea level, from a devastating flood that could threaten it if a storm surge from a powerful hurricane out of the Gulf of Mexico propelled a wall of water into the lake and the city. 
 That event could place vast sections under 20 feet or more of water, engineers and scientists say, with worst-case computer predictions showing death tolls in the tens of thousands with many more people trapped by high water that has no natural drainage outlets.
"There's no way to minimize the amount of devastation that could take place under such circumstances," warned Walter S. Maestri, director of emergency management of Jefferson Parish, a suburban region with 455,000 residents on the city's western and southern sides.
Perhaps the surest protection is building up the coastal marshes that lie between New Orleans and the sea and that have been eroding at high rates. But restoration will require time, a huge effort and prohibitive sums of money, perhaps $14 billion, according to a study by a panel from federal and state agencies, universities and business. 
Engineers are considering other ways to protect the heart of the city and provide an island of refuge in the French Quarter and government centers. Though such approaches are less expensive, they come with their own problems. One plan involves walling off an area to keep out water. But where would the wall be built and who would benefit from it? 
Many residents give little thought to such matters, counting on the knowledge that New Orleans has escaped hurricane disaster in the past.
The most nervous people are those paid to worry about such things, like Dr. Joseph N. Suhayda, director of the Louisiana Water Resources Research Institute at Louisiana State University. Like other coastal researchers, he has been using the latest geological and meteorological data to refine computer models of how different storms would damage the city.
On a bright spring day with fair skies and no trace of the sultry air that will dominate the weather in the months ahead, Dr. Suhayda and a few colleagues drove city streets 1,000 yards from levees that hold back Lake Pontchartrain.
At New York Avenue, near the lakefront campus of the University of New Orleans, the car stopped, and the engineer walked over and unfolded a wood measuring stick to its 25-foot length. He planted one end on the pavement and raised it until it was vertical. The other end poked into the sky well above a corner light pole, but it was still well beneath the level of a concrete wall that rose on top of a grassy slope 100 feet away.
"Behind that," Dr. Suhayda said, indicating the wall, "is a canal that runs into Lake Pontchartrain. Its surface is roughly about the same as the lake's surface."
In a hypothetical situation projected by his computers, Dr. Suhayda continued, a slow-moving Category 4 hurricane, with winds up to 155 miles an hour, or a Category 5 hurricane with even stronger winds could leave water 30 feet deep on this neighborhood street, which is more than five feet below sea level. Though Category 5 hurricanes are very rare, Camille in 1969 devastated Pass Christian, Miss., just 50 miles east of New Orleans, and killed scores of residents with winds that exceeded 200 miles an hour and a 35-foot storm surge.
In most areas vulnerable to hurricanes, the water would drain away quickly. That is not the case here.
So city planners and engineers continue to work on ways to improve an evacuation plan for the 1.3 million residents in the metropolitan region and to soften a storm's blow. Most long-term projects intended to blunt a hurricane involve slowing the loss of marshlands. One method calls for additional control gates to let the Mississippi pour sediment-rich water into surrounding lands, a process that would eventually raise or at least maintain their elevation.
Other proposals are to rebuild eroded offshore barrier islands, erect a wall of levees across much of the lower delta, plug the dredged containership channel that gives the Gulf of Mexico waters easy access to the vulnerable eastern shore of Lake Pontchartrain and help defend that shore with higher flood gates.
Perhaps the most unconventional is the "community haven" concept advanced by Dr. Suhayda and others in the belief that radical remedies may be necessary to soften a knockout punch by nature. More theory than an organized campaign, it envisions a two-story-high wall with flood gates at crucial intersections to seal off the southern part of the city from a bend in the river at the French Quarter to another one eight miles west.
If the rest of the city flooded, Dr. Suhayda said, the "island" between the wall and the river's levees could become a refuge for thousands of residents fleeing their homes, as well as preserving the cultural and government center.
But obtaining the money on the scale needed is far tougher than devising plans, especially if some skeptics dismiss the worst-case predictions as scare tactics to help finance university research or for further environmental intrusions on the coast.
Researchers, though, say they are not making up the city's potential peril, which arises from geology and history. As tight as a pimento in an olive, most of New Orleans is stuffed between the Mississippi and the lake, and it is settling as fast as the rest of the delta or faster, said Dr. Roy Dokka, a geologist at Louisiana State.
Although much agonizing has gone into problems of the river, and its metaphoric temperaments have become part of songs and folklore, it is the 300-square-mile lake that troubles him, Dr. Dokka said.
As New Orleans grew as a seaport, petrochemical hub, tourist destination and cultural phenomenon, neighboring marshes were drained and the levee system expanded to keep the water out of new suburbs and industrial parks, hastening the drying that led to sinking, and making a bad situation even worse.
A computerized cross-section of the city's topography recently created by L.S.U. scientists and engineers shows a shallow bowl-like profile. On the southern edge along the river, the rim rises about five feet above sea level for most of the French Quarter, a half-mile-wide sloping plain created by the river's natural earthen banks. A flood wall built by the Army Corps of Engineers to hold back a cresting river -- which on normal days moves more than 300,000 cubic feet of water a second past the city at an average depth of 90 feet -- raised the levee to a uniform height of 25 feet above sea level, or 10 feet above the average annual high water surface level of the river, when water can rush by at the rate of one million cubic feet of water, or more, a second.
Most of the city north of the French Quarter was reclaimed from a boggy morass. The lowest sections -- residential areas and shops that sit on drained marshland at 5 to 10 feet below sea level -- form a wide band near the lake's southern shore.
New Orleans International Airport to the west and industrial complexes and residential areas to the east are at sea level or below it.
Spider webs of city canals and wide ditches that measure 185 miles in length feed 22 pumping stations that lift water to a height where it can flow into the lake, over levees built more than a half-century ago that stand 15 to 17 feet above sea level.
Water cascading over the levee wall or flooding from swollen marshes at the lake's eastern and western ends is just one part of the nightmare, the experts say. Draining the city after the storm moves away may take weeks, they point out. The city would be trapped inside the levees, steeped in a worsening "witches' brew" of pollutants like sewage, landfill waste, chemicals and the bodies of drowned humans and animals.
Bourbon Street could remain under 10 feet of water, with water swirling above two-story houses in neighborhoods closer to the lake.
Dr. Ivor van Heerden, deputy director of the L.S.U. Hurricane Center, said that in a worst-case situation with incomplete evacuation "we could have up to 45,000 killed and 400,000 trapped on roofs, with 700,000 evacuees who would now be homeless." 
Dr. van Heerden said it would take at least nine weeks to pump the city dry.
Pumping stations, which sometimes fail in heavy seasonal downpours in a city that receives nearly five feet of rain a year, would be inoperative under those conditions for days if not weeks, Dr. van Heerden said. The chemical stew that would be pumped into the lake and surrounding marshes would be an environmental disaster by itself, he added. He said that the cost in human misery might be incalculable but that the bills for insured damages, public works repairs and replacements and the economic effects might total $50 billion.
Despite the specter of such losses, it has been difficult to find enough money to build up the protective marshlands, said Jack C. Caldwell, head of the state's Natural Resources Department. Washington has been disinclined to earmark billions to protect the marshland and has resisted appeals from Baton Rouge to share revenues from offshore oil production with the state for that purpose, Mr. Caldwell said. 
In the meantime, residents take their chances every hurricane season, which starts on June 1. According to his computer models, Dr. Suhayda said, the odds that the city will be hit by a cataclysmic storm in any given year are less than 1 in 100. 
The American Red Cross is taking the threat seriously. It has declared it no longer will provide hurricane shelters in the New Orleans area, saying that placing staff there in a killer storm will represent too much risk for its employees, volunteers and the general public.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about flood control in New Orleans referred imprecisely to the reliability of the city's pumping stations. While they sometimes fail to keep up with the rain in very heavy downpours, the pumps themselves rarely stop working.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Much of New Orleans is built on drained, soft soil, forcing residents to deal with sinking ground. At top, a worker digs a tunnel to allow a home to be jacked higher; below, other workers prepare to drive concrete piling into bedrock beneath the home. (Photographs by Matthew P. D'Agostino for The New York Times)(pg. F4) Chart: "Vulnerable Site for a Metropolis "Squeezed between Lake Pontchartrain and the Mississippi River, New Orleans is often threatened by flooding. TO AIRPORT The Worst-Case HurricaneSustained counterclockwise winds blowing from north to south could push water from Lake Pontchartrain over levees and into the northern sections of the city. This view has a twentyfold vertical exaggeration to show changes in terrain. EVACUATION WORRIES There are three main routes out of the city, all of them problematic: 1) Interstate 10 is prone to flooding where it passes over a corner of the lake. 2) The 24-mile Lake Pontchartrain Causeway is closed when winds exceed 50 m.p.h. 3 Interstates 10 and 59 would very likely be clogged with traffic from vulnerable areas on the Mississippi Gulf coast. Flooding Scenarios EXTREMELY HEAVY RAINFALL -- Areas at sea level and below are flooded. COMMUNITY HAVENSome suggest walling off a section of the city in anticipation of a catastrophic flood, shown here at 10 feet. The haven would spare downtown, the French Quarter, and some neighborhoods while offering refuge for others. LAKE LEVEES OVERFLOWMost neighborhoods are swamped, except some closest to the riverbank. This view shows flooded areas whose elevation is at most 7 feet above sea level. (Sources: Louisiana Water Resources Research Institute, Louisiana State University; U.S. Geological Survey; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)(pg. F1) Drawings (William McNulty and Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. F1) Chart: "Coastal Defenses Are Disappearing"New Orleans gets some hurricane protection from the marshes and barrier islands to its south and east, which shield the city from storm surges. But these marshes are eroding fast. NATURAL WETLANDS BUILDUP -- During floods, the Mississippi's overflow washed surrounding land with fresh water, sediments and nutrients. WETLANDS STARVED -- Levees and canals now channel the river and its sediments past the wetlands to the gulf. Sediments spread out with floodwaters, building up land. Storm surges tear up the marshes, which get no fresh water or sediment to restore them. Old sediment is washed away by tides and rising sea levels. BIODIVERSITY -- Louisiana coastal marshes are among the most productive ecosystems on the planet, with important fisheries and wildlife refuges. Drawings (Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOOD CONTROL (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LAKES (90%); WEATHER (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); SUBURBS (68%); WATER QUALITY (50%) HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FLOODS; DAMS AND DIKES 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW ORLEANS (LA); LAKE PONTCHARTRAIN (LA)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



745 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: NASA to View Interaction of Earth's Water and Climate 

BYLINE:  By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
Viewed from space, some of the earth's most pronounced features are the blue of the vast oceans, the white swirls of moisture-laden clouds and bright swaths of ice covering the poles. Much of what the planet is stems from its water, and NASA is about to launch a satellite to study the many ways that water affects the climate and how that relationship may be changing.
 The Aqua satellite is a large spacecraft with sensors designed to follow the cycle of the earth's water in its many forms to determine whether it is being affected by climate change. Six types of instruments aboard Aqua are to scan through the atmosphere down to the surface, gathering the most detailed data ever on water vapor in clouds, ice crystals in the air, evaporation, water in the oceans, icebergs and other sea ice, as well as glaciers and snow pack on land. 
 Scientists said the $952 million program, planned to last six years, should also help in understanding biological systems dependent upon water, like plankton in oceans and vegetation on land. In addition, they said, the data should help improve long-term weather and climate forecasting, and should help in understanding the workings of severe storms. For example, temperature changes on sea surfaces can signal widespread weather shifts like El Nino. 
"The Aqua satellite will tell us about water in all of its forms," said Dr. Claire Parkinson, a sea ice expert and Aqua project scientist at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., which is in charge of the program. "This comprehensive approach enables scientists to study the interactions among key elements of the earth system so as to better understand our planet."
Seventy percent of the earth is covered with water, but only a tiny amount occurs in the atmosphere as vapor or ice crystals. Yet atmospheric water is one of the most important greenhouse gases controlling the radiation and heat balance of the earth, Dr. Parkinson said. Because it is so little understood, its impact on global warming is hard to gauge.
Another unknown is how global warming may be affecting the cycle of water from sea to sky to earth, with some scientists suspecting that this hydrologic cycle may be speeding up.
Different forms of water greatly influence the amount of heat absorbed, retained and reflected away from the earth, scientists say. Clouds containing tiny particles of water and solids like ash and sea salt influence weather patterns by absorbing or scattering solar energy, or reflecting some of it back into space. Sea ice can reflect solar energy to reduce surface warming or insulate water against heat loss.
Snow cover can keep heat from escaping from the land, allowing the formation of cold air masses and limiting frost's penetration into the ground. Variations in sea temperatures can reflect shifts in heat exchanges between the ocean and the atmosphere.
Aqua carries some instruments identical to those on a sister satellite, Terra, and is to provide data that will be cross-referenced with information it is gathering. Launched in 1999, Terra carries instruments that concentrate on landmass studies, monitoring vegetation and the spread of deserts, among other things. The third major satellite in this system, a craft called Aura that will focus on atmospheric studies, is to be launched in 2004. (The three satellites carry Latin names that correspond to their missions: Aqua for water, Terra for land and Aura for heaven.)
Dr. Ghassem R. Asrar, NASA's associate administrator for earth science, said Aqua's data, combined with information gathered by the other satellites that are part of the agency's Earth Observing System, would help resolve scientific conflicts about global warming and how much of it could be attributed to human activity. The comprehensive, uniform information provided by this system will give policy makers more confidence in making decisions about influencing global warming that can have worldwide economic impact, he said.
Dr. Parkinson, the Aqua project scientist, says some of the uncertainties about global warming and climate change arise from conflicting data gathered by different instruments at different times in different parts of the world. "Satellites are the best way to get a good global view," she said. 
Aqua is to be launched on Saturday from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California aboard a Boeing Delta II rocket. The spacecraft, weighing 6,468 pounds at launching, is to be placed in a low polar orbit 428 miles high that has it circling the earth top to bottom every 99 minutes. Flying in this orbit, Aqua will take readings of every part of the globe every 16 days, building a comprehensive database that allows scientists to assess changes and drastically improving computer models for long-term forecasting.
In space, the big satellite, built by TRW Inc., will deploy antennas and booms to measure 16 feet by 26 feet, with solar power panels unfurling to stretch 55 feet across.
Aqua's suite of instruments include devices that will measure cloud properties, the wetness of land surfaces, land and sea temperatures, humidity and temperature at different levels of the atmosphere, the properties of particles in the air, fluctuations in solar energy absorption and many other parameters.
Two instruments are provided by other countries. The National Space Development Agency of Japan contributed a microwave scanning radiometer to measure water vapor content and precipitation rates, and Brazil's space agency provided a device to measure atmospheric humidity.
While Aqua's measurements are geared toward understanding long-term problems like global climate change, the satellite is also likely to have an immediate effect on everyone.
The spacecraft's Atmospheric Infrared Sounder, an instrument that measures infrared heat radiation as it leaves the atmosphere, is expected to provide vastly more and better temperature and humidity readings worldwide than are available now from weather satellites and other sources. These readings in 2,378 infrared wavelengths, compared with 24 from most other satellites, will give forecasters greater quantities of more accurate data to put into their computer models.
Dr. Asrar said five major forecasting groups around the world, including the United States' National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and its National Weather Service, have arranged to get the Aqua data to see if it improves weather forecasts. To meet this need, he said, NASA has arranged to process this data and make it available to forecasters within two hours after it is received.
Scientists said the data could greatly improve the accuracy of three-day to five-day forecasts of temperature, precipitation and humidity, perhaps making the three-day forecast as accurate as today's 24-hour one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: NASA will begin a six-year, $952 million study of the earth's water with the launching of the Aqua satellite. (TRW Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OCEANS (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (77%); EL NINO & LA NINA (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%) WEATHER; SPACE; SATELLITES; WATER 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (54%) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



746 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In a major switch, Hyundai Motor America dismisses Bates and signs with Richards.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IN a startling switch, Hyundai Motor America said yesterday that it would dismiss the only agency the company had worked with since starting to sell cars in the United States 16 years ago. The agency, Bates, which had recently helped Hyundai significantly increase its sales as well as burnish its image, is being replaced by a shop that had strived time and again for a prestigious automotive account but fallen short -- until now.
 Hyundai, part of the Hyundai Motor Company of South Korea, ended a closely watched three-month review by naming the Richards Group in Dallas to handle its national creative account, with billings estimated at $160 million, effective May 1. Richards, which had missed being selected in half a dozen automotive reviews in the last decade, for brands including the BMW Mini, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche (twice) and Volkswagen, will take over those Hyundai duties from the Irvine, Calif., office of Bates USA West, part of the Bates Worldwide division of the Cordiant Communications Group. 
 The abrupt change, which comes as Cordiant is struggling to recover from a disastrous business performance in 2001, is further evidence -- as if anxious agency executives needed any additional proof -- of how volatile relationships can be with clients during tough economic times, particularly in battleground marketing categories like automobiles, soft drinks and fast food. 
Bates is being dismissed even though Hyundai sales are 205 percent higher than five years ago and the company outscored its chief Japanese rivals -- Honda, Nissan and Toyota -- in the annual customer satisfaction ratings released last week by AutoPacific, an influential automotive consultant. Trade publications had reported that executives at the Hyundai parent in South Korea pressed for the review because they wanted fresh thinking on the creative tasks as competition intensifies.
"Our goal mid- to long term is to take Hyundai to a 'Tier 1' brand, one of the top companies not only in the United States but worldwide," Dave Weber, vice president for marketing at Hyundai Motor in Fountain Valley, Calif., said in a telephone interview.
"While the work Bates has done is very strong," he added, "we thought this was a good opportunity to look around and make sure what we're getting was as strong as it could be."
Richards was selected, Mr. Weber said, for reasons that included "a great strategic platform, a depth and breadth of creative capabilities and the people chemistry, which was really good."
Dismissing Bates, which had worked for Hyundai in the United States since 1986, "was not the most enjoyable thing I've done," Mr. Weber said. "But the consensus of the group of five people on the selection committee," which included a Hyundai dealer, Tom O'Brien of Quincy, Mass., along with Mr. Weber and three other Hyundai Motor America executives, "was that Richards had the best programs for us," he added.
As for the risks attached to leaving an agency with 16 years of automotive experience for one that had been a perennial bridesmaid in car reviews, Mr. Weber said he would prefer to use the word "opportunity" rather than the word "gamble," adding that Hyundai was impressed by "case studies showing how Richards builds strong brands for other companies" like Chick-Fil-A, Home Depot, 7-Eleven and Nokia.
Other clients of Richards, which had billings estimated at $560 million before landing Hyundai, include Motel 6 and two driving-related newcomers, the Pep Boys vehicle-repair chain and GO RVing, a group representing marketers in the recreational vehicle industry.
Richards will begin working on campaigns for the cars Hyundai will sell for the 2003 model year, to be introduced in the fourth quarter. The campaigns for the 2002 model year, which carry a theme Bates created, "Driving is believing," are completed, Mr. Weber said.
The decision is a bitter blow for Bates, not only because Hyundai was its second-largest client, behind only British American Tobacco, but because the agency can ill afford to lose such a high-profile account as its parent, Cordiant, seeks to regain its footing after a sharp decrease in revenue and renegotiating debt agreements with its banks.
Asked why the agency was being dismissed, Bill Whitehead, chief executive for the Americas at Bates in New York, replied: "You've got me. Sales are up 205 percent in five years, intentions to purchase Hyundai are up 770 percent, awareness of the brand is up 29 percent and opinions are up 68 percent."
"With those kinds of results, which are spectacular in the industry, you've got to ask why," Mr. Whitehead said, but "at the end of the day we wish Hyundai and the dealers' group well."
The Irvine office has about 80 employees, Mr. Whitehead said, and an additional 30 work for Hyundai in field offices nationwide.
"We're certainly going to have to take a look at the office out there and the opportunities," he added. "We'd sure like to take those resources and find a car business that would like for us to do the same for them as we did for Hyundai."
At Richards, which is one of the few remaining large privately held agencies, the thoughts are of expansion as the staff of 520 is to grow by about 10 percent and an office is to be opened in Los Angeles.
"We waited a long time for this, and we are absolutely delighted," said Stan Richards, principal.
"We had a stairwell meeting this afternoon with the entire staff and there was jubilation," he added, laughing. "Productivity has fallen to zero."
When Richards was passed over by Mercedes-Benz of North America in 1992, Mr. Richards said, "I don't think we as an agency were ready" to tackle a major national automotive account, but when the agency fell short in the Volkswagen review three years later, "I think we were ready and were terribly disappointed."
This time around, "we're that much further along as an agency," he added, "and we felt we had a great deal to bring to the table."
Richards did not lay off employees last year during the industry downturn, preferring "to take a dramatically reduced level of profitability," Mr. Richards said, "to keep our strongest players" if possible. That strategy paid off yesterday, big time.
Bates had previously lost two other parts of the Hyundai assignment. In January, the media planning and buying duties were consolidated at Carat North America in New York, part of the Carat division of the Aegis Group, along with the media services for a Hyundai sibling, Kia Motors America. Last week, the assignment to handle collateral work for Hyundai like creating brochures was shifted to Hamon Associates in Los Angeles. The finalists in the creative review were Richards, Bates and two agencies owned by the Publicis Groupe, Publicis & Hal Riney in San Francisco, which recently lost its longtime automotive account, the Saturn division of General Motors, and Publicis in the West in Seattle.
The review began in late January with 20 to 25 agencies expressing interest, then was narrowed to 10 semifinalists in February and 5 finalists in early March. One dropped out, leaving the four from which the decision was made yesterday. Select Resources International in West Hollywood, Calif., helped manage the review for Hyundai.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bates had worked for Hyundai in the United States since 1986. Hyundai was one of its largest clients. (Bates North America) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (65%); SOFT DRINKS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (94%); HYUNDAI CORP (91%); BATES WORLDWIDE (56%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BATES WORLDWIDE; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO; RICHARDS GROUP 

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (94%); 005380 (KSE) (94%); 011760 (KSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; SIC6799 OTHER INVESTORS; SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: THOMAS M O'BRIEN (50%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



747 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Income and Spending Growth Ease, Hinting at Slow Revival 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
Personal income and spending grew in March at the slowest rates in three months, the Commerce Department reported today, suggesting that the economy began to cool somewhat entering the second quarter.
 The 0.4 percent gain in income came after a 0.6 percent increase in February, the report said. Spending also rose 0.4 percent after a 0.6 percent gain, as purchases of durable goods, like appliances, as well as those of services and nondurable goods slowed. The rises matched forecasters' expectations. 
 "Consumers should be a stabilizer for the economy for the balance of this year, but they will not provide a big boost," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. Mr. Sohn had expected 0.5 percent gains for income and spending last month.
The rise in spending was the smallest since a 0.1 percent increase in December.
At the same time, the report showed that businesses are keeping prices in check in an effort to maintain sales. The personal consumption price index, excluding food and energy, rose 0.1 percent for the third consecutive month.
Consumer spending grew at a 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter, as the economy expanded at a 5.8 percent pace. First-quarter spending was slower than the 6.1 percent rate in the final three months of 2001.
Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, increased 0.5 percent in March after rising 0.7 percent a month earlier. Wages and salaries rose 0.2 percent in March, half the increase in February.
The personal savings rate rose last month to 2.2 percent, the highest since 4.7 percent in September 2001 and up from 2.1 percent in February. The savings rate weighs current income from wages, salaries, businesses and government payments against spending.
It does not account for borrowed money, income from investments, or withdrawals from any previous savings.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Graph tracks income figures from October 2000 to March 2002. Personal Income and SpendingBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rates. MarchIncome: $8,920.1Consumption: 6,616.4 Change from Feb.Income: +0.4%Consumption: +0.4(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



748 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: With Indonesia Politics Up for Grabs, Islam's Role Grows 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, April 29 

 BODY:
During his five years in Britain as a doctoral student in accounting, Zul Zulkieflimansyh remembers thinking that his homeland, the largest Muslim country in the world, should be doing better by its 220 million people.
 A veteran of the tough world of Indonesian student politics, Dr. Zulkieflimansyh, 29, decided that Islam was the answer, and the newly formed Justice Party the perfect vehicle. He returned home several years ago determined to do something to bring about change. 
 Now, as the government here struggles to hold the amorphous center together, this astute accountant and a group of like-minded colleagues in the Justice Party are meticulously organizing for the next elections and hoping to establish an Indonesian version of an Islamic state.
The party's goal is nothing less than to impose the traditional Shariah, or Koranic law, on this secular nation. Justice Party supporters contend that such a change would instill a sense of purpose, pride and self-confidence in Indonesians and restore a moral focus in a country that has fallen into chaos and widespread corruption. 
With the devastating effects of the Asian economic crisis five years ago, and the downfall of General Suharto a year later, Indonesia's political landscape is up for grabs as never before. 
About 90 percent of Indonesians are Muslims, though most of them practice a more relaxed, less politically motivated form of their religion than can be found in some other countries with large Muslim populations.
But now Muslim political parties, including the Justice Party, control about 24 percent of Parliament. With elections coming up in 2004, President Megawati Sukarnoputri has been behaving cautiously on many issues, including Washington's war on terror, for fear of destabilizing a delicate equilibrium.
She will have to tread carefully with the Justice Party. Its top echelon -- the party leader, Hidayat Nur Wahid; Annis Matta, the secretary general; and Lutsi Ishak, the treasurer -- are all graduates of Saudi Arabian universities.
Many of the members join after passing through the strident Islamic student organization, the Indonesian Muslim Student Action Union, known for its aggressive street protests in favor of an Islamic state.
But the party believes in the soft-gloved approach. No militant jihad jargon issues from Dr. Zulkieflimansyh's lips. Instead, he speaks of empowering villagers, setting a clean moral example, and spreading a pure vision of Islam.
"We don't like the idea of forcing people to join Islam," Dr. Zulkieflimansyh said during a meeting at the party headquarters. "We like to invite them." Literature asserting that Jews organized the attack on the World Trade Center is on sale at the front counter.
A slogan on the office door says, "Expand recruitment, strengthen education and then gain victory." Dr. Zulkieflimansyh says, "We want people to understand Islam in a nice way."
With its young, motivated leadership -- Mr. Hidayat is one of the older leaders at 42 -- and spirited organization, the Justice Party has put its secular opponents on high alert.
When Indonesia gained independence from the Dutch a half-century ago, the new leaders chose to eliminate a proposal for a system based on Shariah from their Constitution. During the more than 30 years of the dictatorship of General Suharto, many Muslim leaders agreed with his insistence on keeping Islam out of politics, even if they disagreed with his authoritarianism.
Now, in a political atmosphere of new openness, a race is on for the hearts and minds of Indonesians. Leaders from the moderate form of Islam have delineated what they call the battle between Liberal Islam and Literal Islam, in whose corner they place the Justice Party. 
The liberals, suddenly galvanized by the inroads of the Justice Party and more militant groups, deem the Justice Party as dangerous as easy-to-see Islamic militants. 
The Justice Party remains small, with only seven parliamentary seats right now, but it is expected to at least triple its presence in Parliament in the next elections. More important, it has already set a trend, increasing the volume of the debate on adopting Shariah. 
The party, the liberals say, has been clever in not overly emphasizing its goal of creating an Islamic state. In this way, it has avoided creating unified opposition among those who consider the issue the flash point of Indonesian politics.
The Justice Party's soft style of recruitment is clearly on display in the low-income village of Sukamekar, about a 90-minute drive from the capital. The party has provided a mill for the peasants' rice and donated a tractor and is in the process of setting up some classrooms. At the same time, it has introduced study of the Koran twice a week for a women's group, and a party activist, responsible for the economic progress, visits once a week.
The activist, Nur Syamsudin Buchori, the operations manager of Kosindo, an Islamic cooperative established to help finance village projects for the Justice Party, says the rice mill has brought higher prices for the village rice.
Mr. Buchori's boss in the party, Didik Ahkmadi, leader of the "empowerment" division, views the rice mill in sheer political terms.
"This is a very strategic way to improve the conditions of the people," Mr. Ahkmadi said, standing beside the noisy machine as it churned out clean white rice. "If the government established a rice mill, there would be much corruption. If for example one million rupiah was allotted from the bank, 500,000 rupiah would come to the village."
In the nearby village of Babelan Kota, the party has helped organize a local industry. With financing from the party, families buy discarded imperfect socks from textile factories and mend them for resale.
The women's religious study group was a quid pro quo for the economic help in Sukamekar. Marhani Maruf, 38, who takes part in the group, said that economic conditions had improved only marginally but that at least the party representatives were consistent.
"They come all the time," she said. "The others only come when they want something."
The party's senior leaders insist that they are not interested in establishing in Indonesia all aspects of Wahhabism, the conservative form of Islam practiced in Saudi Arabia. 
But the introduction of Shariah is a basic goal. "The implementation of Shariah would mean justice would be upheld," Mr. Zulkieflimansyh told a recent seminar where everyone in the room knew that a series of high-profile corruption trials under way in Jakarta were unlikely to result in severe sentences. 
Under Shariah, he said, "There is no privilege for Muslims if you do something wrong."
Outwardly the party appears to be tolerant of educated women, and one of its most fervent organizers is Nursanita Nasution, a lecturer in accounting at the University of Indonesia and the mother of seven children.
Ms. Nasution, dressed the other day from head to toe in pink, including her head covering, says she is ready for the fight with the secularists. She has long disagreed with Indonesia's leading Islamic moderate voice, Nurcholish Madjid.
"He said, 'Islam yes, politics no,' " she explained. "But Islam teaches us how to wake up in the morning, how to marry, how to educate and how to do the government. It's all in Islam."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a rice mill established by the Justice Party in Sukamekar outside Jakarta. At left, in Babelan Kota, sock mending, a home industry organized by the party. (Photographs by Kemal Jufri/Imaji Press, for The New York Times) Map of Indonesia highlights Jakarta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TERRORISM (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) INDONESIA (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



749 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Will Take Command of the Security Force in Kabul 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, April 29 

 BODY:
In a victory for the United States, Turkey agreed today to assume command of the international security force in Kabul, the Afghan capital, sometime this summer.
 The Turkish cabinet approved the decision after receiving additional assurances from the United States that it would provide funds to defray Turkey's expenses in Afghanistan and keep limits on the role of the security force, officials said. 
 Under the agreement, Turkey will take command of the nearly 5,000 international troops who patrol Kabul and the surrounding area for six months. A statement issued by the cabinet said the date for the takeover would be negotiated with the United Nations and other countries. 
British officials said they did not expect Turkey to assume its role until June. The change will likely occur after the loya jirga, or grand council, scheduled to meet in mid-June, decides whether to back the interim government of Hamid Karzai or select another administration.
"We may well have to remain as lead nation until June," British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon told the Parliament in London, according to Reuters.
The United States had encouraged Turkey, the only Muslim member of NATO and a close American ally, to take over the security slot and offered numerous incentives over several weeks of negotiations. 
During a visit to Ankara last month, Vice President Dick Cheney promised Turkey $228 million to pay the costs of sending another 1,000 or so troops to Afghanistan, Turkish and American officials said at the time. Mr. Cheney also repeated American support for Turkey's admission to the European Union.
Turkey maintained close ties with Afghanistan until the 1970's and Ankara also has good relations with Gen. Rashid Dostum, the leader of the Uzbek faction in northern Afghanistan.
"From the U.S. and Western European perspective, Turkey is an ideal candidate to lead the force," said Mustafa Aydin, a political science professor at Ankara University. "Being a Muslim country shows that it is not an attack against a Muslim nation by the United States. Turkey also can have a moderating effect on radicalism in Afghanistan." 
The military, highly influential inside Turkey, was eager to play an expanded role in helping to police and rebuild Afghanistan. The generals saw the mission as an opportunity to increase the country's influence in Central Asia and its prestige among its European allies. But the government, struggling with the worst recession since the end of World War II, was reluctant to assume any financial responsibilities or get dragged into a wide-ranging role.
Along with the American promise of financial assistance, a Western diplomat said Turkey had insisted that the security forces continue to patrol only Kabul and the surrounding area. Some Afghan leaders have called for a larger force to cover the rest of the country, but the United States has resisted those calls and Turkey said the risks of getting dragged into an internal conflict were too great.
The security force, drawn from 18 nations, was created in December by the United Nations to support the Karzai government, which has strong backing from the United States and Britain.
This will be the first time that Turkey has had operational command of an international force, though it has participated in many joint United Nations and NATO forces in the past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); AIRLINES (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); HIJACKING (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORISM (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%) FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%); ANKARA, TURKEY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (98%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; TURKEY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



750 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Stoning And Scripture 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan 

 BODY:
One of the central challenges for any religion is to evolve, to adjust ancient scriptures to modern life. That challenge framed the debate as judges here in Sudan puzzled over whether Abok Alfa Akok should be stoned to death for adultery.
 Ms. Akok, 18, married last year, and soon afterward her husband left town to look for work. When he returned four months later, she was pregnant -- but, alas, not four months pregnant. 
 The judge decided that the conception was unlikely to have been immaculate. He sentenced Ms. Akok to the ancient Islamic penalty for adultery, execution by stoning. Ultimately, the Sudan Supreme Court commuted the sentence to 75 lashes, which were promptly applied.
The barbarity of the "hudud," or ancient Islamic punishments, raises a larger question: To what extent should Muslims turn to literal prescriptions in the Koran for guidance in the 21st century? 
This is critical, for one of the impediments to development in the Islamic world -- and one reason for terrorism against the West -- is that many people are struggling to hold on to literal interpretations of the Koran in a world in which that no longer makes sense. If Muslim countries are to modernize, they must find ways to update traditional religious doctrines about punishment, the role of women, the ban on interest payments that precludes modern banking and so on.
Islamic countries simply cannot build 21st-century economies on seventh-century scripture, not least because that would exclude economic participation by half the population.
I've been pestering Muslims and religious scholars with such questions over recent weeks, and overwhelmingly they are optimistic that Islam is already embarked on a reformation. They cite two reasons.
First, a process of "ijtihad," or looser reinterpretation, is already well underway. Early Muslim objections to printing presses, radios and international travel are now forgotten, and Islamic reformers (many of them, like Khaled Abou El Fadl of U.C.L.A. law school, from perches in America or Europe) are pressing for reinterpretations of the Koran.
"It's been stressed from the beginning that the Koran is not a law book but a book of exhortations, and the responsibility rests with the community to figure out ways to implement those moral principles in changing circumstances," said Tamara Sonn, a scholar of Islam at the College of William and Mary.
The hudud are rarely applied and arise mostly when insecure post-colonial leaders try to bolster their legitimacy by playing the amputation card. That's what has happened in the last couple of decades in Pakistan, Nigeria and Sudan (where the introduction of Islamic law beginning in 1983 prompted a rebellion that has killed more than two million people so far).
"Imagine you woke up one day and found that Jehovah's Witnesses had taken over your government," explained Taisier Ali, one of the rebels. "That's like what happened to us."
A second reason for optimism is a look at the history of Christianity and Judaism. All religions have scriptures that say some ridiculous things, Islam no more than others. The trick of modernization has been to interpret the ridiculous bits away as merely "allegorical." For example, the Bible stipulates that "a stubborn and rebellious son" shall be stoned to death (Deuteronomy 21). It states that if your wife entices you toward a new religion, you shall kill her (Deuteronomy 13).
Christian ijtihad has been an ongoing process. My great-great-grandfather was so devoted to the Sabbath in a very literal way that when recruited for a railroad job, he said he would take it only if the company stopped running trains on Sundays.
Even today, some 45 percent of Americans say in polls they believe in the creationist theory of how the world was formed, and President Bush expresses uncertainty about evolution. And consider the Catholic struggle to adjust dogma on celibacy or ordination of women.
John L. Esposito, a scholar of religion at Georgetown University and author of a new book on Islam, notes that Christianity and Judaism evolved gradually, and sometimes bloodily, over many centuries, while in Islam the pressure is accelerated.
"Reformation in Islam is inevitable," Professor Esposito said. "But Muslims are faced with having to do it in a very compressed time." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WOMEN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); LAWYERS (74%); SENTENCING (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); TRENDS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) ISLAM; KORAN; JEWS; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WOMEN; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D 

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



751 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: A Visionary School Plan in Maryland 

 BODY:
More than 40 states have been sued for failing to provide poor districts with enough money to educate children up to the standards articulated in their own laws. In the last 10 years, about 20 states have been rocked by rulings requiring them to provide poor students with equal access to quality schools. The states have generally responded by dragging their feet, forcing bitter confrontations with the courts that waste time and money and pit one part of the electorate against another. New Jersey put off educational fairness for more than 25 years before announcing that it would abide by the ruling in Abbott v. Burke, the most important equal education ruling since Brown v. Board of Education. 
 Maryland seemed headed for a similarly destructive logjam after the courts ruled during the 1990's that the state was providing the Baltimore school district with too little money to provide the city's children with "a constitutionally adequate education." Instead of creating a standoff, the state entered a consent decree and re-examined its educational funding and policies. It found that the lowest-performing school districts were also the ones that had the least financing and recommended that the state boost funding by more than $1 billion a year to provide poor districts with the same quality of education being provided in rich districts. 
 A proposal for spending that much money seemed dead on arrival after the economy slowed this year. Lawmakers would probably have abandoned the plan if not for the groundswell of support that came from Marylanders as a whole. The education package recently passed by the Legislature will eventually dedicate an additional $1.3 billion a year to public education, focusing more money on economically disadvantaged and special needs children. Local districts will be required to contribute and to offer all-day kindergarten for all students and pre-K services for the disadvantaged. This new law creates a commission to study school construction as well as one to recommend tax changes to pay for the new outlays. 
Instead of fighting it out in court, Marylanders have decided to level the public school playing field as quickly as possible -- so that all of the state's children have a chance at decent lives. Other states, including New York and California, could learn from this enlightened example. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); TAX LAW (72%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) MARYLAND; BALTIMORE (MD); CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



752 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Closing A-Plant Would Raise Energy Costs 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, April 29 

 BODY:
An economic study of the Indian Point nuclear power plant released today concludes that shutting down the plant would increase the likelihood of rolling blackouts and cost consumers an estimated $3.4 billion over the next four years to replace that lost electricity through other sources.
 The study was commissioned by the plant's owner, the Entergy Corporation, and completed jointly over the past three months by two independent research groups, National Economic Research Associates and General Electric Power Systems Energy Consulting. Two economists who helped prepare the study, accompanied by Entergy officials, presented their findings this afternoon to a committee of the Westchester County Board of Legislators. 
 It is the first time that Entergy has released a study about Indian Point's economic impact since opposition to the plant began spreading after Sept. 11. Spurred largely by safety concerns, many state and local politicians, environmental groups and concerned residents have called in recent months for the closing of Indian Point, which is about 40 miles north of Midtown Manhattan.
"It's fine to have discussions about closing down Indian Point," said Laurence P. Gottlieb, a spokesman for Entergy, who attended today's committee meeting. "But when you get to the point where you've shown it's safe and secure, then you need to go beyond that to the economics of it. You need real data to show there is not the infrastructure to bring that power in at the same cost that you're producing it here at Indian Point."
The study said that shutting down Indian Point's two working reactors -- which can produce up to 2,000 megawatts of electricity at any one time, or enough power for about two million homes -- would immediately lower the electricity reserves in New York State to 8.4 percent from 14.5 percent. In New York, utilities typically try to maintain a reserve of 18 percent. 
In addition, the study said, replacing the nuclear reactors with natural gas or alternate sources would result in higher costs to provide the same amount of electricity. The study estimated an additional $3.4 billion in consumer expenditures by 2005 for the electricity alone, while Entergy officials said that building enough transmission lines to carry that electricity from other areas could cost hundreds of millions more.
But Michael B. Kaplowitz, the chairman of the legislative committee, said he questioned some of the study's basic assumptions. For instance, he said, the study did not take into account all the natural gas plants in development, or that there was simply less demand for electricity because of the recession and the destruction of the trade center. 
"I think it was a good faith effort to get to the economic question; I don't find as much good faith with Entergy," Mr. Kaplowitz said. "They did not address the jobs -- which is a major concern -- what they'd do with the site, and the tax ramifications."
Mr. Gottlieb said that Entergy had decided to focus on the energy impact of closing Indian Point because Mr. Kaplowitz and others had raised questions about it. He said that Entergy officials had already addressed those other issues, estimating that as many as 2,000 jobs would be lost, as well as $34 million in state, county and local taxes.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday about a committee of the Westchester County Legislature meeting in White Plains for the presentation of an economic study about the Indian Point nuclear power plant misstated the plant location. It is in Buchanan, N.Y., not White Plains.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A study on the Indian Point plant in White Plains was presented yesterday to a committee of the Westchester County Legislature. (Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); COUNTIES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (61%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL) 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (94%); GE POWER SYSTEMS (84%); ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%); NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENTERGY CORP 

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (84%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



753 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Albany Taxes Short in April By $1.1 Billion 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 29 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders confronted a major budget crisis today, as the final April tax collections came in at least $1.1 billion short of what the governor had forecast.
 The new hole in state finances dealt a blow to budget talks. The negotiators came close to reaching an agreement twice in the last two weeks, but the dismal tax-collection figures today sent lawmakers scurrying to come up with new sources of revenue. 
 The governor vowed not to raise taxes or put off planned tax cuts to deal with the budget gap. He said some of the spending increases advocated by the Senate majority leader and Assembly speaker would not happen. "One of the things we have to do is to look at the level of spending," he said.
The lower-than-expected tax collections in April reflect last year's sinking economy and the devastating effect of the Sept. 11 terror attacks on Wall Street incomes. 
April is always a big month for the state's coffers. Last year, the state took in more than $5.3 billion during the month. That amount encompasses payments withheld from people's paychecks, final payments for the previous year's income taxes and the first installment of "estimated payments" made by self-employed people against next year's taxes.
This year, however, the Pataki administration badly underestimated the final tax payments and how much the state would have to refund taxpayers. The budget office predicted the state would have to pay out about $335 million more in refunds than it would get in final payments. But the actual gap is at least $1.4 billion, and could be as much as $1.7 billion by the time the accountants finish their work, the governor said.
The governor and his budget officials offered no explanation for the inaccurate forecast.
In January, in a year when he is running for re-election, Mr. Pataki proposed a $89 billion budget that averted steep cuts by spending much of the state's savings and shifting more costs to the federal government. The governor's plan would freeze state aid to schools at the previous year's level of $14.2 billion and cut the state work force through early-retirement incentives. 
Legislative leaders want to make about $1.2 billion in changes to Mr. Pataki's budget. They are seeking to add about $515 million in aid for schools (about $200 million of that for New York City schools), raise salaries for some health-care workers and restore some cuts to college scholarships, among other things. It is unclear precisely how much the changes would add to state spending, since the Legislature also envisions cutting money from other state programs.
Now, however, all bets are off. A sense of uncertainty pervaded the Capitol today as its leaders met three times with the governor. Mr. Pataki had predicted that the economy would grow about 2 percent in 2002, and that state tax revenues would rise about $1.5 billion, to $41.5 billion, over the course of the 2002-2003 fiscal year, which began April 1.
That estimate is now in doubt. The governor and top lawmakers are hoping the steep drop in April collections reflects only last year's shaky economy and not a permanent trend. 
They were quick to point out that the national economy grew by more than 5 percent in the first quarter of this year. Sooner or later tax revenues in New York State should begin to reflect that trend. Wages and withholding tax have held steady through the first three months of 2002, as well, despite the loss of about 100,000 jobs because of the attacks.
"The important thing to understand is that that shortfall is still a reflection of last year," said the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat. "This just confirms the depth of how bad it is."
One problem is the lawmakers cannot afford to wait this year until the economy improves to pass a budget, as they sometimes do. Not only are all the legislators running for office, but they are running in newly redrawn districts. Everyone is anxious to reach an accord and start campaigning.
"We are trying to do a budget now," the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Rensselaer County Republican, said a few hours before heading into a 90-minute evening session with Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver, which failed to produce an agreement. "If we wait three, four, five or six months, we would get a clearer picture."
Mr. Silver said he was willing to put several sources of revenue on the table that had not been included in the governor's plan. He said, for instance, the state might accelerate the establishment of Indian-operated casinos to siphon off some slot-machine revenue before the end of the current fiscal year. 
Similarly, the governor's budget did not count on any money from electronic slot machines at harness tracks that the Legislature has authorized. Those might also be hurried into place to produce some revenue, the speaker said.
People with knowledge of the talks say there are still a number of budget-balancing methods.
The governor, for instance, paid tax refunds and some state debts early in recent years in order to make it appear the state's balances were less robust than they were. Just by juggling the timing of tax refunds and putting them off, the state can move $500 million into the next fiscal year, freeing up cash for this one.
But there are other revenue problems developing as well. Changes in federal tax law meant to stimulate business after the terror attacks are going to cost the state about $220 million in business taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); TERRORISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); HEALTH CARE (64%); EARLY RETIREMENT (60%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



754 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Herd on the Street 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On Friday the Commerce Department announced that the economy grew 5.8 percent in the first quarter of 2002. The Dow promptly sank below 10,000, making it the stock market's worst week since Sept. 11. And stocks fell again yesterday.
 What's going on? Maybe the market is spooked by those orchestrated leaks about attacking Iraq, which everyone agrees are a smoke screen, but nobody is sure for what. Or maybe we should ignore the Dow; an old line says that the stock market has predicted nine of the last five recessions. But the truth is that the numbers, when you look at them closely, are actually quite disappointing. How can 5.8 percent growth be disappointing? Bear with me while I run through a textbook example. This won't hurt (much). 
 Imagine a company that produces widgets (companies in these examples always produce widgets), normally selling 100 each month. The company tries to keep one month's sales, 100 widgets, in inventory. But for some reason sales drop off, to 90 per month. And it takes a month before the company realizes what has happened.
At the end of that month the company, having produced 100 widgets but sold only 90, finds itself with 110 in inventory, but wants to hold only 90. To eliminate the excess inventory quickly, it might slash production to 70 for the next month, then bump production back up to 90. But unless sales increase again, that's where it ends -- production never recovers to its original level. 
As go the widget-makers, so goeth the economy. When demand drops, inventories build up, then production drops sharply as businesses work off the overhang. Finally, there's an "inventory bounce" when the overhang is gone. But the bounce doesn't necessarily presage a true recovery -- to get that, you need increased sales to final buyers. 
And more than half of that 5.8 percent growth was just inventory bounce. Final sales actually grew only 2.6 percent, slower than in the previous quarter. And even that growth rate may not be sustainable: home construction soared, partly because of unusually warm weather, but there are already signs that the housing market is cooling off. Meanwhile, business investment, weighed down by excess capacity and weak profits, actually declined. In short, there is nothing in the data to suggest that a great boom is imminent.
This shouldn't be cause for surprise, but it is -- because the great majority of business forecasters have become cheerleaders. As Alan Abelson put it in Barron's: "Where we are today . . . is not where we were supposed to be, according to the received wisdom back at the turn of the year. Economically, the perfect storm was to be followed by the perfect recovery."
I've never quite understood where that received wisdom came from. Wall Street economists assured us that business investment was about to surge, yet corporate leaders -- who actually make the investment decisions -- have consistently been much more pessimistic than the forecasters. Hey, what do they know?
Still, there has been intense pressure on business economists to run with the bullish herd. Skeptics about the impending economic miracle haven't just been ridiculed, they have been ostracized. Morgan Stanley's Stephen S. Roach -- who was a lonely skeptic in the days of Nasdaq 5,000 and is now one of the few business forecasters with the courage to defy the orthodoxy -- signs his e-mails to me "From the wilderness." 
Of course, it's still possible that the prophets of boom will be vindicated. But it's also still possible, and I'd say about equally likely, that the recovery will stall. Right now the best bet for the next few quarters is probably a "jobless recovery," in which G.D.P. grows but unemployment stays high. After all, the economy needs to grow at about 3.5 percent just to prevent the unemployment rate from rising -- and the odds are at least even that growth will fall short of that mark. 
The funny thing is that a slow, jobless (and profitless) recovery is exactly what levelheaded people -- like economists at the Federal Reserve -- have been predicting for a long time. So how did a far more bullish view become not just prevalent but more or less mandatory on Wall Street? How, with the business landscape still strewn with rubble from the bubble, did manic optimism so quickly become de rigueur again? It seems that hype springs eternal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



755 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Find Big Buying Groups May Not Come Up With Savings 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
Two groups that dominate the purchasing of medical products for about half the nation's nonprofit hospitals have long said they exist to save money, pooling the influence of thousands of hospitals to negotiate a good price on the best products.
 But some hospitals are finding otherwise. They have learned that they can do better on their own, and are now raising questions about the need for the huge buying groups, which negotiated contracts last year for $34 billion in supplies. 
A new, preliminary study by the research arm of Congress, the General Accounting Office, is also challenging the buying groups' claims. 
In the study, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, the G.A.O. found that using a big buying group "did not guarantee that the hospital saved money." In fact, prices negotiated by buying groups "were often higher than prices paid by hospitals negotiating directly with vendors" -- in some cases "at least 25 percent higher," the G.A.O. said.
At issue are hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars in annual health care costs, much of it paid indirectly by taxpayers through programs like Medicare and Medicaid and by private insurers.
The G.A.O. report is to be presented today at the first Congressional hearing on the operations of these buying groups. The hearing will be held by the antitrust subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The subcommittee is headed by Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin.
The report comes a day after one of the largest buying groups, Premier Inc., took out a full-page ad in Roll Call, a newspaper covering Capitol Hill.
In the ad, Premier took credit for "holding down the costs of health care for American businesses, taxpayers, and consumers."
The G.A.O. cautioned that its initial report was limited in scope and said it planned a broader inquiry. Government auditors surveyed hospitals in only one city for the prices they paid for two categories of products: pacemakers and hypodermic needles with safety features to prevent accidental sticks. Some of the hospitals surveyed bought such products through contracts negotiated by buying groups, while others made their own deals.
Officials of the two biggest buying groups, Premier and Novation, which together negotiate contracts on behalf of about half of nonprofit hospitals, said they had not seen the study. Told of its findings, they disputed its methods and results.
Jody Hatcher, vice president for marketing for Novation, based in Irving, Tex., said the findings were skewed because the study looked at only two products rather than a wider range of supplies.
"I think you have a flawed study," he said. He and Premier officials said that if hospitals could really save money on their own they would be leaving buying groups in droves.
But the G.A.O. survey, even with its limitations, adds to the growing debate about whether groups like Premier and Novation really lower the cost of medical products for the hospitals that own the groups or buy through them. Some hospital executives said in interviews that the groups did save them money, while others said they saved many millions of dollars by going it alone.
Unlike other purchasing agents, the groups buying supplies for hospitals are financed by the products' manufacturers and distributors, which pay the groups' fees based on a percentage of sales. That arrangement has led to questions about whose interests the buying groups really serve.
Hospitals that have broken away from buying groups cite several reasons for getting lower prices than they would have through the groups. One is the ability to negotiate with a larger number of manufacturers. Another is shorter contracts that allow hospitals to take advantage of falling prices. A third is that manufacturers freed of the need to pay fees to the buying groups will pass on the savings to hospitals.
Two years ago, for example, executives of a 10-hospital chain in Iowa decided to end their relationship with Premier. Officials of the Iowa Health System said they found that each time they renegotiated a supply contract, they beat the buying group's price by 12 percent to 14 percent. They are already saving $7 million a year, and expect that figure to grow as more contracts are redone.
Duncan Gallagher, executive vice president of Iowa Health, said that for years the common wisdom was that hospitals that tried to buy on their own would pay more. He expects that his system may eventually save 30 percent to 40 percent.
"The people who are saying it is impossible are wrong," Mr. Gallagher said.
Nicholas C. Toscano, who oversees purchasing for the Virtua Health chain of hospitals in New Jersey, said administrative fees and incentive payments that suppliers pay buying groups for handling their contracts can also raise prices for hospitals.
Virtua studied the benefits and costs of buying through a large group and decided it could do better on its own. "If the administrative fee is 3 percent, we normally save, right off the top, 3 percent," Mr. Toscano said. 
Another factor driving up buying-group prices, Mr. Toscano said, is contract language that allows manufacturers to lock in price increases over several years, even at times when the price of the products is falling on the open market. 
He said that by writing contracts for shorter periods, Virtua has found opportunities to take advantage of falling prices.
But Premier officials say they also renegotiate prices on contracts and some hospitals add that the size of the big buying groups can command better prices.
"It is very simple economics," said Keith Callahan, a vice president of Catholic Healthcare West, a large hospital system based in San Francisco that belongs to Premier. 
The G.A.O. review is a rare effort to examine independently the impact of buying groups on hospital prices.
In the case of pacemakers, it found that while some hospitals using buying-group contracts got better prices on some models, they got much worse prices on others. The G.A.O. also found that big groups like Premier and Novation often did not get better prices for the products under study than did smaller purchasing groups. 
"This lack of consistent price savings is contrary to what would be expected for large" buying groups, the study found.
The survey also found that large hospitals -- those with more than 500 beds -- often got lower prices on their own than by using a buying group. By contrast, small and medium hospitals tended to do better using a buying group. But even in that group, government auditors found, the experience of hospitals differed.

Medicine's Middlemen
Articles in this series, which began on March 4, are examining purchasing groups that buy medical products for about half the nation's largest nonprofit hospitals. Previous articles described the close financial ties between those groups and medical supply companies. The series is available online:
nytimes.com/business

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Paying More"A pilot study by the General Accounting Office shows that hospitals buying two common items, safety needles and pacemakers, often paid more when using group purchasing organizations -- which are supposed to be saving them money -- than did hospitals purchasing the items on their own. AMOUNT HOSPITALS PAID WHEN THEY USED BUYING GROUPSCompared with what they paid when ordering on their own PACEMAKERSOn three-fifths of the models, hospitals paid up to 39 percent more than if they had ordered on their own. They saved as much as 25 percent on the rest. SAFETY NEEDLESHospitals paid from 1 to 5 percent more.(Source: General Accounting Office)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); ETHICS (75%); MEDICARE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ETHICS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HOSPITALS 

COMPANY: PREMIER INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (93%) NOVATION LLC; PREMIER INC; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (55%) WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; MEIER, BARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



756 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Tornado Hit Towns Hard In Maryland 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: LA PLATA, Md., April 29 

 BODY:
What grass remains from the fiercest tornado ever to strike Maryland is dappled with shards of glass and shredded asphalt shingles.
 Like a giant black boot, the twister trampled the heart of this Charles County city's downtown, turning 20 blocks of homes and offices to plaster and sticks, kicking over the water tower, propelling a peaked roof from one building and dropping it on the flattened remains of another. The tornado stomped a 10,000-square-foot hardware store. 
 La Plata, a Southern Maryland town of 6,000 that is shifting from farming to housing for Washington suburbanites, took the brunt of a rampage of tornadoes that raced from Missouri to the Chesapeake Bay on Sunday. 
The tornado that touched down here struck the hardest, landing with a F5 force, the highest level on National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's scale.
At F5 on the Fujita Tornado Damage Scale, the agency said, a tornado's winds reach 261 to 318 miles an hour, fierce enough to blow frame houses off their foundations, strip bark from trees and catapult automobiles.
Missouri, Illinois and Kentucky each reported one death from Sunday's storms.
The atmospheric agency attributed the ferocity of the storms to collisions of warm wet air from the Gulf of Mexico and a higher layer of cold dry air from Canada and a storm moving from the Middle West toward the Mid-Atlantic.
The tornado that hit La Plata at 7:05 p.m. left two people dead, killing one motorist by flipping his car and another by collapsing the roof of a new home he and his wife had gone to inspect.
Twenty miles east, in Calvert County town of Prince Frederick, a tornado left one more dead. 
"It tossed us like matchsticks," said Murray Levy, president of the Charles County Commission, who was touring the scene today with Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend and other state politicians. "It happened in two seconds."
Nina W. Voehl, the Charles County spokeswoman, said that 12 county residents were airlifted to hospitals and that more than 120 were injured. Linne Anderson, spokeswoman for the American Red Cross, said the tornado destroyed 80 homes in Southern Maryland.
Walking through downtown La Plata, Kevin Benson, 24, pointed to a football field's worth of debris just off the main thoroughfare.
"That was the post office," Mr. Benson said. "That was Mitchell's Hardware. They were a bunch of little houses that had businesses in them." 
When the tornado struck, he said, "all you could hear was people screaming people's names and car alarms going off and alarms going off at businesses and the emergency lights flashing at the courthouse."
Gov. Parris N. Glendening declared states of emergency in Charles and Calvert Counties, making them eligible for state aid. Ms. Townsend said state officials would also ask the Bush administration to declare a natural disaster, opening the way for federal help. The governor authorized the deployment of National Guard troops to the counties today. The La Plata police imposed a 9 p.m. curfew tonight. 
Ms. Voehl, the county spokeswoman, said that the National Weather Service issued a tornado warning four hours before La Plata was hit. But residents said they became aware of one only when they saw the tornado and heard it. 
Thomas E. Hutchins, a Charles County representative in the Maryland House of Delegates, said he was fishing with his 5-year-old son from a pier on the Tobacco River just before 7 p.m. His son noticed the darkening skies and asked if it was a tornado approaching, Mr. Hutchins said.
"I looked up at the head of the river," he said. "I said, 'Let's go in.' " They made it into their house, and in an instant, he said, "the lights went out."
Their home was untouched.
Deborah McClain sat in a room in an EconoLodge Hotel tonight in nearby Waldorf, her six children, her husband, Wayne, and her few remaining possessions surrounding her. Just about everything she had was gone, Mrs. McClain said, except what mattered most.
She recalled her 13-year-old son, Dominique, saying that the tornado was approaching their home. 
"We didn't believe him," she said. "We figured it was just a thunderstorm."
Then Mrs. McClain's husband pulled back a curtain and saw the funnel cloud.
"He screamed, 'Everybody get up! Get up! Get in the basement now!' So we ran down and we hid behind the couch. It sounded like a freight train was coming right through our house. And we could hear things crashing and glass shattering."
When the howling finally subsided, Mrs. McClain walked through the first floor, in shambles, covered in glass, then started for the second floor.
"I climbed two steps and looked up and could see only sky," she said.
Tonight, though, she gives thanks that she lives in a sturdy, two-story brick house, perhaps most important with a basement.
"It didn't really hit until today when we went back and saw our house and saw the damage to the town," she said.
Mrs. McClain added that just before they left the house on Sunday night, she and her family "all came together to say a prayer and give thanks that we're all still alive."
The race for the basement is a response that has become a part of the local culture since the last tornado hit, in November 1926. 
Frances Winkler, 82, was in the second grade then. After a Mass today at Sacred Heart Ms. Winkler said, "That one hit my school. Thirteen were killed, right then and there."
But in another way this one was worse, she said: "That tornado did not demolish our town like this one has." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kerry Yost of La Plata, Md., sifted through the rubble of her home yesterday after a tornado, the worst in Maryland's history, tore through the town on Sunday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "A Deadly Path"The strongest tornado ever recorded in Maryland passed through Charles County Sunday and into Calvert County, leaving a path of destruction more than 30 miles long. Three people were killed in the state. CATEGORY: F2Tornado touched down about 7 p.m. Sunday. CATEGORY: F4Carved a 400-yard-wide swath of destruction through La Plata. CATEGORY: F5At least six houses were blown off their foundations. CATEGORY: F4The tornado passed through Benedict before entering Calvert County. Map of Maryland highlights areas of Tornados.(Source: National Weather Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ROOFING MATERIALS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); WEATHER (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); HARDWARE STORES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (60%) TORNADOES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%) NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION; NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

PERSON: KEVIN E BENSON (50%) KILBORN, PETER T; GLENDENING, PARRIS N (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (98%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) MARYLAND; CHARLES COUNTY (MD); CALVERT COUNTY (MD)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



757 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
A U.S. Foot in the Door?

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 29 

 BODY:
Surprised and pleased, Palestinian officials were hoping today that the American-brokered compromise to break the siege around Yasir Arafat would mark the beginning of even deeper international involvement to end the conflict. 
 Israelis worried that it meant exactly the same thing. 
 "We are creating a precedent here that might play against us," warned Yuval Steinitz, a member of the Israeli Parliament and a leader on security issues in the Likud Party of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. "I think it was a mistake." 
Others glimpsed an opportunity. "The Bush plan can be the beginning of something," said Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator. "I really hope that this will pave the way for a broader international presence, and broader peacekeeping forces in our area to monitor everything."
President Bush and Mr. Sharon may have seemed unlikely leaders to take such a step. But they have created an innovative model for using American and European guardians to ease apart the antagonists here.
Under Mr. Bush's proposal, American and British wardens, unarmed civilians, will supervise the imprisonment of six men, five of whom are accused of involvement in the killing of Israel's tourism minister in October. The sixth man, Israel says, masterminded the attempted smuggling of 50 tons of munitions to the Palestinians. 
Surrounded by Israeli soldiers, the men are now trapped inside Mr. Arafat's compound in Ramallah.
Precisely how they will be confined remains to be worked out. But it appears that Mr. Bush, who tried to keep his administration out of this conflict, has now committed at least a couple of Americans to substantial service in the West Bank. Some of these prisoners have been sentenced to 18 years by the Palestinians. 
The American role is narrow and discrete, and limited only to minding Palestinian behavior, not Israeli action. It hews to the administration's guiding principle of not undertaking any monitoring mission unacceptable to either side. Still, people on both sides said that it had established a precedent.
"It is a foot into the door," said one Israeli official. "One might interpret that it may be the first step to some international force."
Administration officials said the proposal in no way undermined their longstanding opposition to any kind of "interpositional" force separating the warring sides. But like it or not, the American and British wardens will be smack in the middle, holding the combatants apart. They will not only watch the Palestinians watch the prisoners, but they will also prevent the Israelis from seizing them. 
They will in part take over the role of Mr. Arafat, who through his presence inside the compound has so far prevented the Israelis from grabbing the wanted men. Mr. Sharon promised Mr. Bush that he would not harm Mr. Arafat, and the Israeli Army could not come up with a way to extract the men without putting him at risk.
There are other signs suddenly of an enhanced international role in grappling with the conflict. Mr. Sharon himself has proposed a regular, regional conference sponsored by the United States to discuss peace and economic development.
Quietly, foreign diplomats intervene in the conflict, performing pinpoint missions to ease the fighting. They carry messages between the antagonists and broker deals to calm the violence in specific towns. 
Palestinian officials say that when they arrested the men suspected of killing the Israeli minister in February, they secured American cooperation to transport them, with the cooperation of the Israeli Army, from the city of Nablus to Ramallah in official American vehicles. They were seeking to avoid a Palestinian riot in Nablus against the incarceration, and to avoid having the Israelis intercept the men on the way.
Israel's characteristic response to high-profile international observers is on glaring display in a separate impasse, its battle with the United Nations over the plan to send a fact-finding mission to investigate fighting this month in the Jenin refugee camp, in the West Bank.
As is the case with the United Nations mission, Israeli officials believe that, in general, international monitors tend to be individually and institutionally biased against them. The United Nations team, the Israeli government says, is primed to smear the Israeli Army, which says it did nothing wrong during fierce fighting in the camp.
Israeli officials say they hope that by acquiescing to Mr. Bush's proposal, they will gain American support for altering or perhaps defying the United Nations mission.
For months, European states have offered to monitor the imprisonment of Palestinian militants by the Palestinian Authority. They said they could help reassure the Israeli government that the men were in jail, and not permitted to move in and out, planning further attacks. 
Israeli officials said they were open to the idea, but they never formally agreed.
What made the difference in the compromise over Mr. Arafat, Israeli officials said, was the role of Mr. Bush and the United States, whose commitment to Israel's interests is not in doubt. The only question, some Israelis said, is how this new model might spread, if it succeeds. 
After insisting that no progress was possible here until the antagonists themselves were committed to an end to violence, the Bush administration has, in fits and starts in the last two months, enmeshed itself. Under pressure from Arab states, Mr. Bush sent his envoy, retired Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, back to the region. 
Then, when General Zinni failed, Mr. Bush sent a more senior envoy, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. He also made little headway.
Now, President Bush is sending wardens -- not to talk, but to act.
Last month, Vice President Dick Cheney declared that the Israelis and Palestinians appeared unable to solve their problems themselves. "The fact of the matter is, there isn't anybody but us," he said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." 
Palestinian officials were so surprised by the new initiative that some suspected that perhaps Mr. Arafat was being set up for exile. "Are they trying to set up Arafat, by saying 'O.K., we're going to let you go?' " said Michael Tarazi, a lawyer for the Palestine Liberation Organization. "And the next time there's a terrorist attack, which there inevitably will be, they can say, 'See, you didn't do anything to stop it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, expressed optimism. (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ARMIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SENTENCING (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (66%); SMUGGLING (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: ARAFAT, YASIR; BENNET, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



758 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Auto Parts Makers Grinding to a Halt 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: BAY CITY, Mich. 

 BODY:
For decades, Tom Libera stood securely on the first rung of the industrial ladder. Now he may be about to fall off.
 His small one-story shop, J & T Tool and Die, is surrounded by empty fields, at the base of Saginaw Bay just out of town. Inside, Mr. Libera, 43, shows off some of his wares -- basic elements of manufacturing that meld into the mechanisms of American life. 
 The heart of his business is shaping certain auto parts to the fine tolerances now demanded by the industry. But he also makes, among other things, molds for rifle triggers, little bronze pellets used in snowmaking machines, blades used in tank engines. If working on a factory line can be a deadly dull existence, being a tool and die man is far more rewarding. 
"Everything's new every day," he said. "It's not a monotonous job. You have to be very creative."
A customer presents him with a shape. Mr. Libera finds a way to bring it to life. During the course of his 23-year career, he has puzzled over how best to fashion thousands of new widgets for dozens of different customers.
In Michigan, there are hundreds of tool and die shops of varying sizes. But the future of the smallest ones, like Mr. Libera's, is in doubt these days. Most of the business comes from the auto industry and that presents a problem. For years, the Big Three automakers have been under withering pressure from abroad, competition that has only intensified lately as the weak euro and yen have provided powerful cost advantages for the likes of Volkswagen and Toyota.
To compete, General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler have stepped up their modernization drive, sent more work overseas, and consolidated other work at huge supply giants like Delphi and Visteon. This does not make for a hospitable environment for the family-run enterprise.
Nationally, the tool and die industry, which is an important part of the overall machine tool industry, peaked in the spring of 1998, as bull market production was fully revving. Machine tool orders reached $650 billion, according to data from Comerica Bank. Then, the recession hit. By the middle of last year, orders were down to about $200 billion.
"People put on hold their new development," said David L. Littmann, chief economist at Comerica. "They postpone it. This is what capital spending is about."
Having bottomed out, a rebound in capital spending is expected to begin. While likely to be fairly modest across the country -- at least initially -- in Michigan any recovery is expected to be even weaker and slower. Ford and Chrysler, now a unit of DaimlerChrysler, lost nearly $7.5 billion between them last year, while G.M. edged out a profit. 
Some of the wear shows already. There are now 965 tool and die shops in the state, about 100 less than five years ago, according to HarrisInfoSource, a publishing and research company that compiles Michigan industrial statistics.
Three years ago, Mr. Libera's shop had nine workers. Now, he is down to just two, and his is a common story.
"I'm facing closing," he said. "There's only so much automotive work in Michigan. Everybody's in the same boat."
Tool and die makers produce tools for machines, like drill bits, or refine parts made by bigger suppliers. They produce some parts themselves and also make molds that can be used to cast all manner of metal and plastic products.
In Michigan, these shops have names that sound chiseled from Vulcan's forge. Acme Tool and Die. Grinding Products. Ypsilanti Boring. 
"It has been a mom-and-pop industry for many, many years, and, really, it's been pretty resistant to the consolidation which you see in the rest of the manufacturing sector," said Doug Rothwell, president of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, the state's privatized version of a commerce department.
"It's going to be very difficult to run a mom-and-pop shop in this era," he added.
Mr. Libera, a father of two, can attest to that. He is lean and stands 6 feet 6 inches tall. On a recent visit, he wore blue jeans and a lavender work shirt, his peppery hair sticking out around a black Dale Earnhardt baseball cap.
He has deep roots as a G.M. loyalist. His mother worked at a G.M. plant farther up state Highway 15 for 41 years. His father worked at a G.M. plant to the south that is now part of Delphi, G.M.'s immense supply operation that was spun off in 1998.
Guys like him do not buy Ford, partly for loyalty and partly because he gets a discount as a supplier. Three pickup trucks, all from G.M.'s Chevrolet division, sit in his parking lot. 
It is easy for people in his shoes to be bitter -- at G.M. and at a government generally wedded to open trade -- for what he sees as the neglect of American workers. But he recognizes that his shop is caught up in powerful historic forces. Even at the end of the 1970's, when Mr. Libera could not get a G.M. job, the dream of endless American auto supremacy was already beginning to fade. He apprenticed at another local tool and die maker, saved up, sold his Chevy and spent $50,000 to buy a lathe, a milling machine and an electrical saw.
He was 21, and his parents told him being a tool and die man was reliable work.
"Things had to be made," he said, "so it seemed like it would never go away."
His family connections helped get him G.M. work that continues to this day. He recently finished helping to tool camshafts that were being used in prototypes of Cadillac engines. (A camshaft regulates the opening and closing of an engine's valves.) As he sat in his office, next to a fishing trophy, he cradled two 20-inch-long camshafts on his thighs. 
The first one, he pointed out, looked rough. This is what he would get from a supplier. The second one, which he had tooled, was smooth, its edges sharpened. The work presented a challenge because G.M. wants a place in the end of the shaft to put a computer chip. But that part of the camshaft is normally gripped by his lathe, so Mr. Libera devised a special clamp so he could do the work.
Such are his daily puzzles. This has been lucrative work for him over the years, but this most recent job with G.M. looks to be his last, he has been told. The automaker is doing less of the engine development itself and turning the work over to a bigger supplier.
"General Motors, Ford and Chrysler used to develop all of their work in their backyard," Mr. Libera said. "Now, it's go on the Internet and do it the new way. They can't raise the price of the automobiles so they have to take it out of the parts."
And, he added, it is tough to compete with labor costs abroad that are far lower than the wages he pays. So he works even harder. Typically, his days have been 60 or 70 hours long, but have shrunk to more regular hours with the recession.
It used to be that he and other tool and die makers were the first in -- and first out -- of an economic downturn. Now, they might be the first in and the last out. The latest indignity of a changed world, he said, came when G.M. said it was bringing back the Pontiac G.T.O., the first muscle car and an icon of American auto culture. It will be made in Australia.
This is not good news for Mr. Libera. He hopes to reinvent his business with more work coming from other industries, but it will be a difficult road. 
"I'm starting from ground zero," he said. "Somehow, we'll find something. But it won't be what it was. We're half dead now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Libera of J & T Tool and Die in Bay City, Mich., used to have nine workers but is down to two. "I'm facing closing," he said. "There's only so much automotive work." (Marcia Curtis for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Tom Libera making metal extruders to form the honeycomb shape of a breakfast cereal. "Everything's new every day," he said. "It's not a monotonous job. You have to be very creative." (Marcia Curtis for The New York Times)(pg. C12) Chart: "Losing Grip"Tool and die workers, who refine and produce tools for machines, are losing work as more of Michigan's contracts are going to larger supply companies. Graph tracks the number of tool and die workers in Michigan, measured in thousands, from 1995 to 2001.(Source: Economy.com)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (91%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (64%) AUTOMOBILES; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; TOOLS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); COMERICA INC (81%); VISTEON CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; J&T TOOL AND DIE; DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTMES; VISTEON CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); CMA (NYSE) (81%); VC (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (81%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; LIBERA, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



759 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Invading Iraq: The Right Path? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "U.S. Envisions Blueprint on Iraq Including Big Invasion Next Year" (front page, April 28):
 While there is much debate about the various tactical choices for engineering the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, little attention is paid to the rightness of overthrowing a foreign leader at all. 
 The United States' case that Iraq has or is developing chemical and biological weapons that possess any serious effectiveness is not strong. Even if it were, it would not justify or make legal the attempt to overthrow Mr. Hussein.
"Pre-emptive" military strikes must meet a high standard of justification: the attack being pre-empted must be imminent, not merely conjectured or probable in the long run. Lacking such justification, the United States should pursue the usual diplomatic, political and economic channels to contain the Iraqi threat, not simply resort to the use of force in an already unstable region.

DANIEL WEISKOPF
St. Louis, April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); POLITICS (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) WEISKOPF, DANIEL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



760 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; 
Seeking New Model for Air Travel

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
"WARREN BUFFET said once that it's too bad somebody didn't shoot Orville and Wilbur down. It would have been better for all of us," said Robert L. Crandall, the retired boss of American Airlines.
 A hotel ballroom full of people from the air-transport industry laughed heartily at that allusion to the disillusionment that Mr. Buffet, the billionaire investor, has on occasion expressed about the economic viability of the airline industry. 
 There was graveyard humor in the wisecrack. Mr. Crandall, the executive who introduced yield management, frequent-flier mileage programs, supersaver fares and the hub- and-spoke systems that form the architecture of the modern airline industry, had not exactly been a bundle of optimism in his remarks at the annual Unisys Air Travel and Transport Users Association conference last week. 
His assessments were grim. The basic question is "whether today's problems are simply a reflection of the industry's cyclicality -- exacerbated, of course, by the events of 9/11 -- or something more profound," he said, adding, "In my view, the latter is correct." 
Adverse passenger reactions to security-checkpoint problems; rising costs amid plummeting revenue; brutal competition from competitors cutting one another's throats on business fares and from low-cost carriers operating outside the hub-and- spoke systems; the sharp growth in private corporate jets -- all of these raise "serious questions about the continued efficacy" of the vast route networks on which the air system is built, Mr. Crandall said. He added that he thought it was crucial for airline executives to start thinking their way out of the crisis with bold new ideas, and not depend on the old models anymore. 
Among the heads in the audience nodding in solemn agreement at that, incidentally, was one belonging to Frank Kent, the vice president for North American sales at UAL's United Airlines, which lost $2 billion last year and another $510 million in the first quarter of this year. 
Mr. Kent had earlier acknowledged the "broken pricing structure" that is at the core of his industry's problems. He also spoke earnestly about recognizing the "need to take immediate steps to get people flying again."
Yet he stressed one solution in particular. Employing "the emotional medium of television," Mr. Kent said, United plans to reintroduce a popular ad campaign. "We're taking the advice of one of our best-loved and most-requested commercials from a few years ago," he said. Then he introduced a film clip of the old United television ad in which the boss of a company that has just lost a big client rallies his troops by passing out airline tickets so they'll get on the road more often.
This is not meant to deride Mr. Kent, a well-respected airline executive. It is rather to suggest that raising a television ad from the grave is probably not the best corporate strategy to demonstrate full comprehension of the fundamental changes in the habits and expectations of business travelers, the main source of revenue for airlines and most hotels. Basically, business travelers have changed the way they travel, and the way they spend their money.
Do the airlines and hotels and other suppliers really get it?
Let's consider hotels. Last year, when corporate spending on hotels declined as the economy soured, and plunged even more after Sept. 11, a striking behavioral change occurred. Many business travelers traded down from more to less expansive hotel brands, and at the same time, many of the aggressively competing, less costly brands won loyal new customers by offering amenities that business travelers want, including big, well-equipped in-room work spaces and free coffee, tea and even snacks, along with the value.
According to Business Travel News, San Francisco, at $326 a day, has the third most expensive per diem business travel costs, outranked only by New York ($397) and Chicago ($343).
New York hotel occupancy rates averaged 76.8 percent in March, down only slightly from the previous March, according to PKF Consulting. In San Francisco in February, the most recent month available, hotel occupancy averaged 54.7 percent, down from 67.4 percent the previous February, said Sun-Sun Chen, a researcher in the PKF San Francisco office. There were no major improvements in April, though "May is looking a lot more positive," Ms. Chen said.
My experiences with two major business hotels here suggest one reason for some sluggishness in the rebound. Whatever the consequences of the travel downturn and the recession in Bay Area technology industries, some hotels may be as in need of new thinking as Mr. Crandall and others insist the airlines are.
For example, the Campton Place, a boutique hotel near Union Square rated among the top 20 in the United States by Andrew Harper's influential Hideaway Report newsletter, was booked at a promotional rate of $222 a night. My room was dim and cramped, though with a spacious bathroom. It had a small desk and a window that opened onto a dingy air shaft. At night, it was as noisy as a college dorm. There was no free coffee, though the guest-service manual did boast that the in-room television set offered "complimentary channels for your viewing pleasure." 
Two nights later, I switched to the Grand Hyatt, a big convention hotel across the street, where a spacious room on the 29th floor with a barely adequate work space but a sweeping view of the city cost $239 a night.
Downstairs, in the Hyatt ballroom, airline and air-travel experts went on for days about the need for airlines, airports and suppliers to understand that the old models were broken, and that the culture and economic assumptions of business travel have changed forever. 
But upstairs on the 29th floor, my morning coffee still had to come from room service.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The On the Road column in Business Day yesterday, about ideas for revamping the air travel industry, misspelled the surname of the billionaire investor who has expressed disillusionment with it on occasion. He is Warren E. Buffett, not Buffet.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); AIR FARES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (73%) SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



761 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Up at Equity Office Properties 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 29 

 BODY:
Equity Office Properties Trust, the largest office building owner in the nation, said today that its first-quarter earnings rose 67 percent, aided by one-time fees from tenants to end their leases early. 
 The real estate investment trust, whose chairman is the investor Sam Zell, had net income of $201.4 million, or 48 cents a share, up from $120.9 million, or 39 cents, in the period a year earlier. 
Per-share results reflect a 34 percent increase in shares outstanding. 
 Revenue increased 34 percent to $885.8 million, said Richard Kincaid, the chief operating officer. 
Office vacancies in the nation rose to 13.2 percent in the first quarter, the highest level in five years, as companies shed space in response to a slowing economy. A rise in fees paid by tenants to get out of their leases early, especially in the West Coast cities, show the office market is not improving, investors said. 
"Northern California is going to remain weak," said Joe Smith, who helps manage more than $1 billion of real estate securities at Clarion CRA Securities. "They're fighting to maintain occupancies." 
Equity Office's $11.8 billion expansion on the West Coast in the last two years exposed the company to markets where vacancy rates are rising faster than the national average, hurting its internal growth rate. 
Equity Office, which is based in Chicago, owns 768 buildings, including New York's Worldwide Plaza, the tower that houses Chicago's Mercantile Exchange, and Rowe's Wharf in Boston. It owns more than 125 million square feet of office space, up from 99 million square feet a year ago and more than twice as much as its closest competitor, TrizecHahn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%) COMPANY REPORTS 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES TRUST 

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%); RICHARD D KINCAID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) WEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



762 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: States Worry About Bush Welfare Rules 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

 BODY:
In Minnesota, local officials are already worrying about how they will meet the Bush administration's proposal for strict new work requirements for people on welfare.
 Welfare workers in St. Paul wonder what it will mean to the Hmong refugees who speak no English, who are now placed in several months of language training before they are urged into the workplace. Counselors in Anoka County, outside Minneapolis, wonder what it will mean to mothers in suburban or rural areas, with complicated child care and transportation needs. 
 Jerry Vitzthum, director of Anoka's Job Training Center, wonders how his caseworkers will even piece together the required 40 hours of work and other activity for 70 percent of their clients, given the lackluster job market. Not to mention all the child care it will demand, and the intricate arrangements for transportation in a county where public transportation is spotty. He also wonders how clients themselves will manage. 
"It's hard enough for them to juggle family and work, or family and training -- to juggle three things, plus transportation," he said. "It assumes that these people have got it all together." And, he added, many obviously do not.
There is, in fact, considerable -- and bipartisan -- concern among the states over the administration's welfare proposals. In the state capital of St. Paul, officials fume that the Bush proposal feels like a betrayal -- a rollback of the fundamental philosophy behind the landmark 1996 welfare law, which gave states immense flexibility to design and run their welfare programs.
Under that law, states have had resounding success in reducing welfare caseloads and poverty. "The question is, why tinker with that?" asked Michael O'Keefe, commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Human Services.
It is a question raised by many state officials these days. A survey by the National Governors' Association found that welfare officials in 35 states said they would be forced to make "fundamental changes" to their programs under the Bush plan, regardless of how successful those programs have been. The National Conference of State Legislatures warned that the Bush work requirements would "stretch states' resources too thin" and force states to cut back on existing programs intended to help people find and keep work.
The debate over the Bush plan has turned conventional politics on its head, with Republicans accused of advocating a centralized, Washington-knows-best approach to social welfare policy -- the very philosophy they have campaigned against since the days of Ronald Reagan.
The Republican Governors Association has rallied around the administration's plan. Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, says of his critics, "I wish they'd read the bill, because there's a lot of flexibility built in." He noted that the heightened work requirements would be phased in over five years, that the economy was getting stronger and that the new law would give states a lot of leeway -- and new authority to experiment -- in how to reach the new goals.
The Bush plan, with some revisions, is expected to pass the House next month on a party-line vote and face uncertain prospects in the Democrat-controlled Senate. Much of the 1996 welfare law expires this year and needs to be rewritten and renewed.
Among state and local governments, much of the concern appears to center on the proposed work requirements. Under the Bush proposal, by the year 2007, 70 percent of welfare recipients will be expected to engage in a 40-hour week, including 24 hours on a job, and 16 hours of education or other activities. Currently, only about 30 percent of welfare recipients are working in a typical state, and a typical week for those recipients is 20 hours of work, 10 hours of training.
Others might be in drug treatment, language training or other basic education, state officials say. For example, in St. Paul, Jan Mueller, who oversees the welfare program for Lifetrack Resources, has a significant refugee population in her caseload, particularly Hmong and Somalians. Typically, they are enrolled in "functional work English" classes for 20 hours a week. Adding 24 hours of work to that total "is a very heavy burden for people who are already struggling," she said.
Republicans argue that it is simply time to raise the bar on the states. While welfare caseloads have dropped by more than half since 1996, they say, states need to do more to ensure that the people still on welfare are fully engaged in some kind of work activity.
But state officials note that these new work requirements come in a much tougher economic climate. Moreover, they say, many of the easy cases have already left the rolls, leaving a disproportionate number of clients who are harder to place in jobs, because of issues like mental health problems or a lack of English.
"We're dealing with a lot of people now who have been on assistance for a significant period of time," said Nicole Swanson, who oversees welfare programs in Anoka County. "They have low I.Q.'s and learning disabilities and a lot of family issues -- single parents dealing with two or three kids, one is in foster care, one is in the probation system, the mother's trying to go to work and deal with day care."
For all these reasons, some state officials say the only way to meet the new requirements is by creating new "work experience" or workfare programs, in which recipients are essentially required to work off their grants. Critics deride such programs as "make work" that does little to move poor people into long-term employment.
But Jason Turner, who was New York City's welfare commissioner under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, said that work was an essential component for clients. "Sitting in a classroom, day after day, week after week, is just not effective in helping you to get up and get a job," Mr. Turner said. Going to a workplace "helps change the self-perception of the individual to someone with a work identity," he said.
A 40-hour week, officials say, would also mean major new expenses for child care. The California Legislative Analyst's Office reported last week that the Bush plan would cost that state an additional $2.8 billion over the next five years, largely because of child care.
Some state officials said they feared that the new requirements would also drain time and money away from the language, training and treatment programs many states now offer the poor -- activities that would be permitted under the Bush plan but, by themselves, would not satisfy the work requirement. Robin Arnold-Williams, executive director of the Utah Department of Human Services and a leader in the American Public Human Services Association, cited the example of mothers who abuse methamphetamine.
"That mom may, for the first three months, typically need full-time residential care. But you know, she's not ready to go to work 24 hours a week right after that. Otherwise, we're setting her up to fail."
In Minnesota, state officials say they pride themselves on not just cutting the welfare rolls, but helping people move out of poverty -- developing their skills, stabilizing their families and supplementing their income even after they take private-sector jobs. The program has, in fact, been widely praised. But, Mr. O'Keefe says, under the Bush plan: "We would not be able to do what we're doing now. We would not get the results we're getting now."
Those pleas for state flexibility and the freedom to experiment are familiar to Secretary Thompson, who as governor of Wisconsin was a leading advocate for state flexibility when the 1996 law was being written. In an interview, Mr. Thompson suggested it was all part of the legislative dance. "If I was a governor, I'd be doing the same thing," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human services, defends a Bush welfare plan. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; STATES (US); ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (65%) TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); THOMPSON, TOMMY G (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 



763 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Senate Takes Up Terrorism Insurance Again 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats and Republicans have reached a consensus on the need to revive federal legislation that would put most of the burden of paying for a major terrorist attack on the government rather than insurance companies.
 A vote on the measure, which had been drifting for months, could come as early as this week. But passage is far from certain, because the parties have yet to resolve differences over limiting the damages victims could collect from insurers and other businesses. 
 Consumer advocates and some insurance experts contend that with terrorism coverage becoming increasingly available at lower prices, government intervention is no longer needed. But the Bush administration and some lawmakers say that it is still difficult to get coverage for new construction projects and big buildings in cities like New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, and that the insurance shortage is creating a drag on a struggling economy. 
Despite the conflicting assessments, support for government intervention is now building, with strong encouragement from President Bush and determined lobbying by real estate executives, bankers and insurers. Mr. Bush urged passage of the bill in a meeting with A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders in early April. Mr. Bush again emphasized the point last Friday in remarks on the economy, saying, "It is important to pass the terrorism insurance bill."
Increasingly, the lawmakers are concluding that the greatest political risk for them is to do nothing, rather than planning an orderly response to any future attacks. 
"Sentiment to pass a terrorism insurance bill is growing day by day among the members of both parties," said Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York and a leading supporter of government action.
An aide to a senior Republican senator agreed, saying, "There's pretty strong support for this."
After the House passed a terrorism insurance bill last fall, the issue stalled in the Senate over the ability of victims to collect damages from the government and businesses.
Republican Senators, as well as the White House, want to limit claims in terrorist attacks to economic losses and prohibit claims for punitive damages. Many Democrats are willing to bar punitive damage claims against the government, but not against everyone else.
Senator Phil Gramm, a Republican of Texas who introduced the insurance legislation, continues to press for limits on what victims can collect. "He always wanted to see it done," said his spokeswoman, Angela de Rocha, "he just wants to see it done right. The version that the Democrats are proposing now leaves taxpayers too exposed to predatory lawsuits."
Under the Senate bill, insurers would pay for initial losses of up to several billion dollars per incident, according to the market share of each. The government would then pay 80 percent of any remaining losses up to $10 billion. For losses beyond $10 billion, the government would pay 90 percent. The insurers have estimated their losses in the Sept. 11 attacks at $50 billion. 
The Senate program would last one year with a provision for the Treasury Department to extend it for another year.
Shortly after the September attacks, the insurers stopped providing terrorism coverage, saying they had no previous experience to guide them on pricing. They appealed to the government to put a ceiling on their future losses, saying they could then provide coverage at affordable prices.
The Bush administration, insurers, bankers and real estate executives predicted a major economic crisis if Congress failed to intervene by the first of this year. That did not happen, largely because insurers have been offering coverage at ever-decreasing prices. Brokers say that coverage is now available for up to $1 billion for a single building, enough for all but the most prominent buildings in the biggest cities.
"More than 75 percent of the largest corporations now have terrorism insurance," said J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America. "The market is working. There is no need to put the taxpayer on the hook for this."
Mr. Hunter suggested a far more limited program, with the government responsible only for losses of more than $500 million for new construction projects and the biggest, most likely targets in major cities.
"The insurance companies have already demonstrated they can handle the rest of the coverage," Mr. Hunter said. Should a government program be enacted, Mr. Hunter said, it should include refunds for businesses that have already paid higher rates for coverage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, standing with the Teamsters' leader Edward Sullivan, second from left, asked Congress earlier this month to create a federal backup plan to help insurance companies pay future terrorism claims. (Associated Press)(pg. C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKET SHARE (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SHORTAGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) TREASTER, JOSEPH B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002 

 
