

601 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Now Arriving: Costliest Plans For Commuter Lines Since 1970

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER

 BODY:
ANYONE who sits idling in traffic on Interstate 95 has dreamed of a less painful way of getting to work.
Highways choked with traffic and a shortage of parking are pushing people to search for a better way to get from one place to another. Now, two railroad construction projects underway in the state are expected to keep commuter trains closer to their schedules as well as reducing travel time between Boston and New York. The improvements are meant to get people out of their cars, off the plane and onto the train. 
 The State Department of Transportation, which is undertaking the first project, plans to embark this year on the costliest rail construction on the New Haven Line since 1970, with $218 million in Federal and state funds budgeted for new or expanded railroad stations and maintenance shops, a new bridge, replacement of overhead wiring and track repair, said the department's director of rail operations, Richard P. Rathbun.
The department anticipates spending a $1 billion of Federal and state money over the next 10 years on rail improvements and equipment.
Passengers on the New Haven Line will welcome these changes in spite of the billion-dollar price tag, said Harry Harris, chairman of the Connecticut Metro-North New Haven Rail Commuter Council, made up of riders who volunteered to serve as commuter advocates. "I think commuters, by and large, would say, 'Bravo,' he said. "They like the service they are getting and don't want to see it deteriorate."
Mr. Rathbun said riders worried that the construction would cause a nightmare of delays and schedule changes should take heart. The railroad has undergone more construction in the last eight years than in the previous half century, he noted, and trains ran on schedule 96 to 97 percent of the time every year.
But Mr. Harris said that the department must do more to insure that commuters receive notice of delays and schedule changes. "We've been screaming for years about the fact that the transportation notification system is not really adequate," he said.
Mr. Harris said he anticipated that an increase in taxes would be needed to cover the cost of the state's 10-year rail capital program. "But it has to be done," he said. "There's no alternative."
Each day 90,000 trips are made on the New Haven Line over 260 miles of track between the New York-Connecticut border and New Haven, and over the Waterbury, Danbury and New Canaan branches.
 
Intrastate Lines Added
 The Merritt Parkway and Interstate 95 are choked with traffic, and the number of cars continues to grow, according to traffic surveys. Meanwhile, fares return about 65 percent of the cost of running the New Haven Line and over the last 10 years, with more businesses moving out of New York City and into the suburbs, the Department of Transportation has adjusted the train schedule to accommodate more people traveling to work within Connecticut, Mr. Rathbun said. In another effort to gain riders, the department started bus service from the Greenwich, Stamford and New Haven stations to major businesses in each area.
"We're trying to capture more people out of their cars and say, 'Transit is easy,' " Mr. Rathbun said. "Are we going to be able to put 8 to 10 more lanes on the Merritt Parkway and I-95? The answer is no. Is there excess capacity on the New Haven Line? Yes."
Meanwhile, Amtrak, the nation's intercity rail passenger carrier, is more than a year into its Northeast corridor improvement project; $900 million is to be spent on infrastructure and $450 million on new cars and locomotives. The entire project is designed to reduce travel time between New York and Boston to less than 3 hours for express trains and less than 3 hours and 40 minutes for conventional trains, according to a spokesman for Amtrak, David Carol. Currently express trains take about four hours, and conventional trains about 40 minutes longer.
People living near the railroad tracks who are concerned about the environmental effects of the construction oppose the plan. On the other hand, Mr. Carol said, the advantages extend beyond faster service to the prospects of additional jobs in the area and less congestion on highways and at regional airports.
The improvements will make Amtrak more competitive with air-shuttle service, Mr. Carol added. A round-trip rail ticket between New York and Boston costs as low as $79 and as high as $178 for first-class during a peak period, while the round-trip shuttle fare, according to airline representatives, costs anywhere from $138 to $238, depending on the time of travel.
Over the past year, Amtrak has added conference cars, furnished with fax machines and video equipment, where as many as eight people can meet. "It differentiates us from the airlines," Mr. Carol said. "This is not down time."
The new Amtrak service is not expected to compare with the out-of-pocket costs of traveling in a car, Mr. Carol said. "The way we get the motorist on the train is by saying they can relax, sleep, eat -- and there's no parking. And with so many people on I-95 in summer, our business picks up."
Amtrak will provide electrical power to the Northeast corridor's main line between New Haven and Boston -- the only stretch in the corridor without overhead electrical power. This will allow the use of high-speed electric locomotives that accelerate quickly around curves and end the need to change locomotives in New Haven, according to a report Mr. Carol wrote on the project. The rail line itself will be improved to permit higher speeds and a smoother ride.
"The challenge for our engineers will be to upgrade what is the curviest rail line in the Amtrak system (a train makes the equivalent of 12 full circles between New York and Boston) to permit train speeds of up to 150 miles an hour," the report says.
Congestion will be lessened at points in New Rochelle, Stamford and New Haven, which will make traveling faster for both Amtrak and Metro-North riders.
The issues raised by people along the shore in southeastern Connecticut involve the environment. More than 100 homes are within 50 feet of the tracks and these residents want to know more about the risks caused by emissions from power lines and substations providing electricity for the Northeast corridor. They also express fear that historical buildings, wetlands and wildlife near the railroad will be endangered, Mr. Carol said, adding that there is almost no opposition in communities served by commuter trains.
 
Grade Crossings an Issue
 The 15 grade crossings between New Haven and Boston pose a serious safety problem to drivers and pedestrains, according to Amtrak. Twelve are in Connecticut, many in environmentally sensitive areas, the project report says. Under the recently passed Amtrak Authorization and Development Act, the Federal Government must prepare a plan for elimination of these crossings. "This is a highly charged issue at the local level," Mr. Carol wrote in the report, "with most communities staunchly opposing any alternative" to what exists at grade crossings now.
Public hearings will be held after a draft of a Federal environmental impact report is released in late May. If the environmental study is approved, Amtrak will seek the permits needed from the State Department of Environmental Protection, Mr. Carol said. Construction of overhead electrical power lines is expected to begin next fall. Elimination of the grade crossings will depend on agreements between Amtrak and individual communities.
"Amtrak will be required to eliminate any significant impact, or construction will not be permitted to go forward," he added.
A market study done by the Coalition of Northeastern Governors in 1990 for Amtrak showed that three-hour service would attract up to 3 million more passengers a year, most of whom would otherwise have traveled by plane or car, Mr. Carol said. The time savings will also reduce congestion at regional airports, especially Logan International Airport in Boston.
Once completed, the improved transportation could inject $440 million and nearly 5,000 jobs annually into the New England economy, according to the study.
The Amtrak work may take as much as a year longer than the originally scheduled five years in order to keep current service running on time. The main problem will occur in commuter areas, Mr. Carol said.
The Northeast corridor project includes the following:
* Constructing the electrical power system, including electrical substations and overhead wiring.
* Raising about 35 of the nearly 300 bridges crossing the Northeast corridor between New Haven and Boston to accommodate the overhead wiring.
* Installing an underground signal system, allowing Amtrak to eliminate above-ground signal and communications wires.
* Eliminating old freight tracks and switches and installing continuous welded rail and concrete ties.
* Converting 65 bridges from open deck, where tracks are attached to steel beams, to ballasted deck, where tracks rest on a gravel-covered, solid deck.
* Constructing center-island platforms at the Stamford station to allow intercity and express commuter trains to stop along the center tracks rather than local tracks. This will reduce congestion and save time.
* Reorganizing the tracks through New Haven to allow faster speeds and save time.
Amtrak intends to purchase 26 sets of locomotives and cars for operation beginning in 1997. The cars will be built in the United States.
 
The Challenge of Updating Riders
 At this point, the most immediate problem with both plans seems to be communication. Mr. Rathbun said commuters learned of delays and schedule changes through notices placed on the trains, in newsletters and public meetings. Although Mr. Harris agreed that Metro-North communication had improved over the years, he said it still fell short. "One person makes all the announcements now for delays up and down Metro-North. On a really bad morning with problems on many lines, you have one guy running around like crazy."
At the same time, people in some shoreline communities said their questions about the Northeast corridor project remained unanswered.
"We want some form of face-to-face communication with the people running the N.E.C.I.P. We want to have some effect, even if it's only advisory, on what's being done to us," Theodore C. Rice, of West Mystic, wrote in a letter about the project.
Mr. Rice, who said he lived between 70 and 80 feet from the railroad, belongs to a group of homeowners and business owners along the shore in Connecticut and Rhode Island, who question Amtrak's claims concerning the number of additional riders the project will attract, the cost of the work and its economic benefits.
John McGee, president of the Mystic Chamber of Commerce, said he worried that Amtrak would make fewer stops at the Mystic station where tourists and merchants going to Boston used the station. But Mr. Carol said all stops in Connecticut would receive more service.
Putting the occasional inconvenience aside, Metro-North commuters said they were willing to pay to keep the relatively smooth service they now enjoy. "It's an unusual thing for the train to be delayed," said Leonard Schreiber, who has been riding from his home in Westport to his office in New York City for 30 years. "Thirty years ago, I used to drive in. But the traffic has become unbearable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Replacement of the
Pequonnock River Bridge in Bridgeport is one of several major construction projects planned for the New Haven Line. (David LaBianca for The New York Times)
 
Map: "Working on the Railroad" shows Connecticut rail construction projects scheduled to start in 1993. (Source: Connecticut Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; BOSTON (MASS); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FEDERAL AID (US); STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); BRIDGES AND TUNNELS URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (77%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); SUBURBS (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (68%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



602 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 9; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Pressure On Unicef To Move

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
UNDAUNTED by reports that Unicef plans to remain in Manhattan, city officials in New Rochelle last week said they would continue their effort to convince the international agency to move to their city on Long Island Sound.
"We are in a very good position," Mayor Timothy C. Idoni insisted, adding, "We are continuing to lobby the ambassadors" who serve on the international organization's 41-member executive board. That board will make its final decision when it meets in New York in late April. 
 Ten days ago, James P. Grant, the Executive Director and Under Secretary General of Unicef, announced that he would recommend that the executive board accept a joint offer from the New York City Economic Development Corporation and the United Nations Development Corporation to extend Unicef's current lease at 3 United Nations Plaza in Manhattan until the year 2017.
"The children of the world will benefit from New Rochelle's action," Mr. Grant said, adding that the competitive proposal from New Rochelle had forced New York City to make an attractive counteroffer.
 
Eventual Purchase Planned
 That offer calls for a further extension of the Unicef lease to 2026, at which time the city and the United Nations Development Corporation would transfer ownership of the present headquarters building, known as Unicef House, to its current tenants if Unicef agrees to stay in Manhattan.
The offer includes a proposal to provide additional office space at an undisclosed nearby location. Monthly rents would be replaced by lease payments on both properties, money that would defray the cost of buying both buildings.
The recent growth of the United Nations Children's Fund and its inability to find additional office space at a reasonable rent in New York City for its 950 employees prompted 76 cities around the world to urge Unicef to move.
The bid from New Rochelle, which would reduce Unicef's yearly rent to $531,156 from $10 million and provide a 575,000-square-foot, designed-to-order, 20-story building, made it into the top four proposals under consideration, it was reported last fall.
 
Revitalization Hopes Raised
 The plan was the centerpiece of a proposal to revitalize the city's deteriorating downtown. A so-called United Nations Community District covering much of the central business area would include four additional office buildings, 360 units of market-rate housing, a 1,000-space parking garage and an extensive landscaping and beautification program.
The initial success of the New Rochelle plan generated tremendous excitement and spurred hope for revitalization in a city buffeted by a series of economic misfortunes.
Downtown areas have deteriorated following the departure of several major retailers, including Bloomingdale's and Macy's.
Last year, the New Rochelle City Council rejected a plan for a $1 billion residential development on Davids Island in Long Island Sound, a plan that was rejected following a decade of arguments over environmental considerations.
 
'No Proposal Can Touch Ours'
 Last week, Mayor Idoni said he was confident that New Rochelle's proposal will receive strong consideration from Unicef's executive board. "It would have been much better if our proposal had been recommended," the Mayor said, but he added:
"There's no proposal that can touch ours. No one can offer a site so close to the United Nations which saves the amount of money we are proposing."
If the New Rochelle proposal is eventually defeated, Mayor Idoni said, the city's efforts will not have been wasted. "There are lots of American and international corporations looking to consolidate their operations in a single location," the Mayor said.
"Thanks to Unicef's interest in us, our community and Westchester County have come together, and we have set up a network of cooperation that didn't exist before. Now, we are ready to do business."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF) UNITED NATIONS PLAZA HOTEL (56%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF) UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ROCHELLE (NY); MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); CITIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RETAILERS (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



603 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 17; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Scarsdale Agent Finds Publisher and $2 Million for a 1st Novel

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

 BODY:
THE scene is a luxurious hotel room overlooking the Caribbean Sea. A man in a dripping wet bathing suit is talking on the phone while the rug he is standing on gets soaked. He has been on the phone with clients for most of the day, but this is the conversation that counts: He has just clinched a deal that makes book-publishing history.
If a film were to be made about a literary agent, this would be a climactic moment. And although Aaron M. Priest, a self-effacing man, would probably not play himself in the film, he tells the story with a cinematic flourish: 
 How he submitted the 937-page manuscript of a writer's first novel to seven publishing houses and then went on vacation; how within two days of receiving the manuscript, three different publishers were on the phone with him in Barbados, bidding for rights to the book; how two days later, over that hot Barbados telephone line, the book was sold for $2 million.
Well, not quite. Mr. Priest and his wife, Arleen, residents of Scarsdale, had left the hotel room for a short time when executives of Little, Brown & Company and Warner Books called back to confirm their earlier combined $2 million offer for the American hardcover and paperback rights, respectively, to "The Day After Tomorrow," a first book by Allan Folsom. The 51-year-old author, who lives in Los Angeles, had previously written only for film and television.
 
Flying High Since Sale
 Because Mr. Priest was out, the callers phoned Molly Friedrich, the other book agent at the Aaron M. Priest Literary Agency in Manhattan, who was working at her home in Mount Kisco that day. Knowing that Mr. Priest had approved the figure in an earlier phone conversation, Ms. Friedrich accepted the offer, and that was how the story came to be published that Mr. Priest's highly regarded agency had made a record-breaking deal while he was off somewhere on a beach.
Despite that bit of rankling, Mr. Priest has been flying high since the sale three weeks ago, fielding telephone calls from foreign literary agents and discussing film deals with Mr. Folsom's movie agent.
Just back from his less than restful vacation, Mr. Priest played host recently to his newly famous author, whose book -- an international thriller with an intricate plot -- will not be published until April 1994. That morning, the two men had visited Warner Books and Little, Brown, and the tall, blond author had taped an interview for the "Today" show. Despite this television appearance, which would be viewed by millions, Mr. Folsom declined to have his picture taken in Mr. Priest's office.
 
'Not Always Like This'
 The sums of money involved were so large, and the struggling unpublished writers out there might be so furious, that it was safer for him not to be photographed, the author said. Mr. Priest described Mr. Folsom as a struggling writer himself before the sale.
During the author's visit, the Priest Agency's phone rang often, and the office staff darted to and fro. It is a small and friendly group, consisting of the two agents, an assistant for each of them and a part-time editor. In addition, Mrs. Priest works as the office bookkeeper.
Amid the happy chaos, Mr. Priest seemed almost apologetic. "Believe me, it is not always like this," said the agent, a bearded, trim-looking man with perpetual worry lines in his brow. He is a former book salesman who began his own agency 19 years ago in a tiny Manhattan office annex. His first clients were two Texans writing under pseudonyms, he said, followed shortly by the not-yet-famous Erma Bombeck.
Mr. Priest helped the humorist climb to the top of the best-seller list with books like "The Grass Is Always Greener Over the Septic Tank" and the current "When You Look Like Your Passport Photo, It's Time to Go Home," and she helped him build a reputation and a life style. The two are close, and she has visited his home in Scarsdale many times.
The agency now represents many best-selling authors, including Robert James Waller, whose novel "The Bridges of Madison County," has been on The New York Times hardcover fiction best-seller list for six months and was recently No. 1; Jane Smiley, who won the 1992 National Book Critics Circle Award and the Pulitzer Prize for "A Thousand Acres"; Terry McMillan, author of "Waiting to Exhale," and Sue Grafton, author of the alphabet mystery series.
Mr. Priest also handles movie rights and confided in a later telephone conversation that besides the Folsom sale, which had generated volcanic excitement for the agency, "something even hotter" was going on -- a movie auction for the rights to "Slow Waltz in Cedar Bend," a new Waller novel. Hence, all the telephone calls, the agent said, adding, "I have not seen a feeding frenzy like this in 19 years."
Mr. Folsom met Mr. Priest through the legendary literary agent Irving (Swifty) Lazar, who recommended the Manhattan agent some years ago for a short story Mr. Folsom wrote. Mr. Priest, the author recalled, encouraged him to keep writing. "He said, 'I can get you a career as a paperback writer,' " Mr. Folsom recalled. After another try at a novel, the author began work on "The Day After Tomorrow," which is a working title. "I wanted it to take eight or nine months," he said. "Instead, it took two years."
 
Contradicts Current Trends
 The agent accepted the book at once and told Mr. Folsom he could sell it for $50,000 to $250,000. Mr. Priest said that the $2 million figure for the work of an unknown author, especially in today's economy, was "very unusual."
"Publishing has been around for a few hundred years," he said, "and as best as we can tell, this is the highest sale of a first novel since Bantam Books paid more than a million for Sally Beauman's 'Destiny' in 1985." Warner Books and Little, Brown are subsidiaries of Time, which itself is a subsidiary of Time Warner.
The sale contradicts current book trends, Mr. Priest said, since today's market is usually "name-brand driven." The reason, he said, is that Mr. Folsom's novel has the one ingredient essential to a best seller: it is a book that people can't stop reading.
 
A Changing Market
 "It's as simple as that," the agent said. "It takes twists and turns, and they can't put it down. Whether it's a complicated love story, a thriller or a courtroom drama, a book has to be a page turner." He said Mr. Folsom's book, which involves an American doctor and a neo-Nazi conspiracy, was extremely well written and "superbly crafted."
He realized that the sale could go high when a very conservative company first called to offer $350,000, he said, and a second company called an hour later to offer $500,000. "A part of me finds the whole thing obscene," Mr. Priest said of the inflated prices. "Especially when I have a good writer that I can't get $25,000 for. But I don't make the rules."
The downside of his business, he said, is that while some authors are finding wild success, others represented by the agency are having painful slumps. "It's the nature of the market," Mr. Priest said. "The cold war ends. Spy thrillers are not what they used to be, and people don't want Western Americana anymore. It's hard to get decent advances for some authors I've represented for a long time."
Both he and Ms. Friedrich, who personally represents Terry McMillan, Jane Smiley and other authors, including her father, the writer and editor Otto Friedrich, say agents should not outshine their authors. "The stars of the agencies are always the writers," said Ms. Friedrich, a vivacious woman who has been with the agency since 1978. "It's an extremely dangerous and dishonest trend" to think otherwise, she said.
Mr. Priest shuns the limelight, preferring to spend time with his family, which includes two grown sons, and friends outside the business. He spends summers in a quiet part of Rhode Island, where, he said, he can talk tomatoes instead of books. He is a religious Jew who attends services regularly at Temple Israel Center in White Plains and takes weekly Talmud classes on Wednesday nights.
Other weeknights lately have found him in his office, he said, talking movie rights with such famous producers as Richard Zanuck of Zanuck Brown Productions in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Superstars, however, don't impress him, the agent said. "I don't care what their name is," said Mr. Priest. "That way, I don't get nervous making these deals."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Molly Friedrich and Aaron M. Priest in the office of the Aaron M. Priest Literary Agency in Manhattan, which recently clinched a record-breaking deal for an unknown author. (Roberta Hershenson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DAY AFTER TOMORROW, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: BARBADOS (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CARIBBEAN SEA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: PRIEST, AARON M, LITERARY AGENCY; LITTLE BROWN & CO; WARNER BOOKS LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (82%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRIEST, AARON M, LITERARY AGENCY; LITTLE BROWN & CO; WARNER BOOKS

GEOGRAPHIC: BARBADOS (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); CARIBBEAN SEA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; FINANCES PUBLISHING (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERARY AGENTS (90%); FILM (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); BEACHES (73%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: PRIEST, AARON M; FOLSOM, ALLAN; HERSHENSON, ROBERTA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



604 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Will Clinton's Gamble Pay Off?

BYLINE: By Kenneth N. Gilpin

 BODY:
"If there's anything that this program is directed at, it's interest rates."
 Robert E. Rubin,
 chairman of President Clinton's
 National Economic Council.
 WALL STREET's bond traders can be forgiven for feeling more than a little bit used upon hearing Robert E. Rubin's comment about the importance of the credit markets to the Clinton Administration's economic plan. 
 After all, the program proposes to slap a huge income tax increase on the many well-to-do participants in the fixed-income markets, as well as the companies for which they work. Yet at the same time, the Administration is gambling that bond traders will ease some of the economic pain that higher taxes will doubtless cause by keeping interest rates low.
Nevertheless, many credit-market participants said the Administration's gamble on low rates is one that could well pay off.
"The thing that has struck me are the consistently low economic growth projections of 3 percent or less that are coming out of the White House and the Congressional Budget Office," said Stephen Slifer, an executive vice president at Lehman Brothers. "That says to me inflation going forward is not going to accelerate. That still leaves the potential for significant further declines in interest rates."
If inflation remains tame and the Clinton Administration is successful in cutting the Federal budget deficit, Mr. Slifer said, there is no reason why the inflation-adjusted rate of return on long-term bonds should not fall back to the 3 percent range it held for much of this century. Over the past decade, inflation-wary investors have demanded an average premium of 4 percent.
A number of factors are working in the Administration's favor, said William H. Gross, a managing director at the Pacific Investment Management Company, an investment firm in Newport Beach, Calif., with $42 billion under management. All will help to keep both short- and long-term interest rates low for the next 12 to 18 months, he said.
The Administration needs to keep short-term rates as low as possible for as long as possible, Mr. Gross said, and to do that it needs a friend at the Federal Reserve. Fortunately, Mr. Clinton's program to systematically attack the Federal deficit seems to have won over the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan.
"Even if inflation picks up a little bit, I don't sense Greenspan will move quickly" to counter it, Mr. Gross said, "because he is a gradualist" who realizes dealing with the deficit will take time.
Mr. Gross also expects the Treasury Department will try to coax down long-term rates by cutting the supply of 30-year bonds it auctions each quarter by 50 percent.
Interest rates are also falling in most countries in Europe, and probably will be soon in Germany, Europe's most important financial market. Falling European rates tend to enhance the attractiveness of rates on this side of the Atlantic.
All of these factors are enough to get Mr. Clinton's program in place, Mr. Gross said, but they are not necessarily enough to get it to work.
"For that he needs several years of low rates to get investment going," Mr. Gross said. "He needs to keep Alan Greenspan on board and he needs to have a little luck with inflation."
Despite the optimism, the bond market's reaction to the new Administration's promise has already been so extravagant that many in the financial community are questioning whether yields can fall further.
Since the election, yields on 30-year Treasury bonds have declined by some 65 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7 percent, the lowest level since the Government began regularly issuing the bellwether security in the late 1970's.
True, the Administration's proposals, if enacted, may stunt growth in 1994 and beyond. But some analysts said the bond market is overlooking the fact that the economy is humming along at about a 4 percent clip right now.
And Mr. Clinton has promised additional momentum in the form of $30 billion worth of short-term stimulus from spending on infrastructure and jobs programs.
"There is almost no negative sentiment in the bond market, and I find that disturbing because in my view the economy is very strong and getting stronger," said Lawrence A. Kudlow, chief economist at Bear Stearns & Company. "I think the market is highly vulnerable."
Indeed, some analysts say that rates are so low now that other forms of assets are beginning to look attractive.
"As the price of financial assets goes higher and higher, real assets start looking better and better," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities Inc. "Rather than buy a bond, people may start looking at condominiums."
Congress is another stumbling block for both the Administration and the bond market.
Based on the recent past, it seems unlikely that all of the spending cuts asked by Mr. Clinton's Office of Management and Budget will pass muster on Capitol Hill, or that Congress will refrain from adding to his stimulus package, said David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International. And experience has shown that revenues from tax increases are never as large as projected.
"I would bet a lot of money right now we will not get the deficit cuts over the next four years the Administration is projecting," Mr. Resler said.
"If Congress adds to the stimulus, or chips away at spending cuts, then the market's elation will be short-lived."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Looking Ahead," tracks estimated annual average yields on the three-month bill and the 10-year note, 1993-1997 (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (64%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); INCOME TAX (56%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL CLINTON (92%); BILL GROSS (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



605 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2979 words

HEADLINE: A Baby Bell Primed for the Big Fight

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: STERLING, Va.

 BODY:
IT looks like any other brick colonial home in this Washington suburb. But for Raymond W. Smith, chairman and chief executive of the Bell Atlantic Corporation, it is both a dream house and a castle to be defended.
Linked to the outside world by optical fibers, the unoccupied house was built recently by Bell Atlantic to show how a telephone company can deliver far more than talk. 
 In the kitchen, a person can point a clicker at a television screen to browse the specials at a local grocery store, order the week's food and specify a delivery time. In the family room, the television is wired to instantly retrieve movies from a remote electronic library. Upstairs, children can order video games or study topics like the Civil War by calling up documentaries.
Stripped to its essence, however, Mr. Smith's dream house is nothing less than a staging area in a multibillion-dollar battle to determine which companies will provide the next generation of communications for the American home. At stake is what Bell Atlantic and the nation's other local telephone companies see as their Holy Grail: an all-purpose network that will deliver a flood of new services and produce a flood of new revenues.
But for the first time in their history, the phone companies face tough competition and big risks, and their identities will be shaped by how they respond. Even though no one knows how badly customers will want this communications cornucopia, a convergence of technologies is driving cable television companies and other rivals to provide the same kind of highway to the home. The danger for the phone companies is that they will be left behind.
"They don't want to let the next stage of business growth pass them by," said Peter D. Shapiro, a senior consultant in telecommunications at Arthur D. Little Inc. in Cambridge, Mass. "It is more an aggressive move than a defensive move, but if they don't do it, they fear that the major cable suppliers will get in there and lock them out."
But if any company can hold its own in this high-tech, high-stakes free-for-all it is Bell Atlantic, one of the seven regional "Baby Bells" that emerged from the 1984 breakup of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company.
 
Going Head to Head
 Perhaps more than any of its siblings, Bell Atlantic under Mr. Smith has moved to meet competitors head on. Based in Philadelphia and operating from New Jersey through Virginia, it has upgraded its networks at a furious pace, rolled out dozens of new services -- like Caller ID and improved data communications to the home -- and begun a headlong plunge into the video marketplace. That includes big plans to make available to every home in New Jersey the same kinds of services available in its showcase house here.
"We will be a full-service company," Mr. Smith said in a recent interview. "We have three information instruments in the home -- the telephone, the television and the computer -- and they are all coming together to communicate on a full-service network. The time is not far off when you will be answering your television set and watching your telephone."
Just who will be transmitting the answers and images is far from clear, however. Indeed, the battle is part of a larger debate over efforts by the Clinton Administration to develop a nationwide "information superhighway." The Government is already financing a high-speed network that would link supercomputers, but it is also trying to make the highway accessible to the public. Vice President Gore has long argued that the phone companies should play a big role and he supports removing a key obstacle in their way: a Federal law that bars them from owning cable television systems in their areas.
The cable companies already operate networks that deliver dozens of television channels into more than 60 percent of the country's homes. Now they are boosting that capacity more than 10-fold, and are introducing so-called switching technology to offer two-way communications.
The cable companies are also making a big push into wireless "personal communication services" -- low-powered, inexpensive pocket phones and hand-held computers that communicate over the air. These services are expected to be authorized by the Government within two years.
Still other rivals are on the horizon. Long-distance companies are edging back into the local market by teaming up with cellular phone companies, as in the pending alliance between A.T.& T. and McCaw Cellular Communications, and many experts predict similar alliances with cable companies. And the cable companies have acquired many of the growing number of new fiber-optic carriers, which provide high-speed local communications services for big corporate customers.
Finally, local phone companies are beginning to turn on each other. Just two weeks ago, the Southwestern Bell Corporation said it would pay $650 million for two cable franchises outside Washington, in Bell Atlantic's backyard. Because Southwestern already owns a cellular telephone franchise in the Washington area, the deal immediately raised the specter that Southwestern would raid Bell Atlantic's territory by setting up a hybrid cable-telephone operation.
Bell Atlantic is hardly running scared. Under the 54-year-old Mr. Smith, who has been head of the company for four years, Bell Atlantic has been spending about $1.5 billion a year on high-capacity fiber optics and advanced switching technology. It is also investing heavily to link wireless communications to its regular phone network.
Alone among the Bells, it has committed itself to deploying a new digital compression technology that allows customers to receive television pictures over ordinary phone lines. Over the next two years, long before most neighborhoods have been re-wired with optical fiber, the company hopes to offer what amounts to an electronic video store.
 
Teams and Lawsuits
 And, by both confrontation and collaboration, it has begun a broad effort to compete directly with the cable industry. It recently announced that it will spend an extra $1.5 billion to run fiber optic lines to every neighborhood in New Jersey by 2010. In the last few months, it has teamed up with other companies in New Jersey to deliver cable TV programming over modernized phone lines in Morris County and Dover Township.
And in Virginia, Bell Atlantic recently filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn the Federal prohibition against cable ownership. In that suit, the company said it wants to build a fiber optic system in Alexandria that will offer hundreds of channels and two-way communications for every home.
Many industry analysts applaud Bell Atlantic, saying it exemplifies the kind of aggressive thinking phone companies need to adopt.
"They are attempting to seize their own destiny, at a time when they're under siege just the way A.T.& T. was under siege before the breakup," said Janice Obuchowski, who was head of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration under President Bush.
But others are skeptical. Some say cable companies have fundamental long-term advantages in the video marketplace, and that telephone technology is not yet up to par. Others think Bell Atlantic and some of its siblings are being fuzzy and too grandiose in their attempt to be all things to all people.
"My basic criticism of all seven regional Bell companies is none of them have really prioritized a long-term future," said Victor Schnee, president of Probe Research, a telecommunications consulting firm in Cedar Knolls, N.J. "They've got all their tentacles out, but they're so big and so sprawling that it's hard for them to come up with a succinct game plan."
 
Sizing Them Up
 Nonetheless, the Baby Bells are looking at the future in different ways. The Nynex Corporation, parent of New York Telephone, has been very reluctant to push into television services because its executives say they face too many regulatory burdens. Pacific Telesis, parent of Pacific Bell, is spinning off its high-growth, unregulated wireless business. And Southwestern Bell appears to be hedging its bets by modernizing its own network more slowly than some of its siblings while also buying outside companies.
Notwithstanding their strategic differences, the phone companies as a group offer some stark strengths and weaknesses when compared with the cable companies.
With combined annual revenues of $100 billion and enviably steady profits, the phone companies dwarf the $20 billion cable industry. And because cable companies have borrowed to the hilt to finance their growth, they have far less financial leverage than the phone industry.
Bell Atlantic, which serves one of the most densely populated and affluent regions of the country, is particularly well poised. Despite the slow economy, its earnings jumped 7.6 percent in 1992 to $1.3 billion, on revenues of $12.1 billion.
The phone companies also bring to the table powerful switching networks that can route millions of calls at a time and instantly link customers over a patchwork of independent long-distance carriers and wireless services if necessary. But the phone industry's Achilles' heel is the last mile of copper wire that reaches to individual homes and businesses and was installed for the simple purpose of handling ordinary phone calls.
 
One-Way Line
 By contrast, the cable industry has been more aggressive about employing new technology, wiring initially with coaxial cable rather than thin copper wires. By adding fiber optics to their main arteries, or "trunk lines," and by using new digital compression technologies, the cable companies are now gearing up to offer hundreds of channels. Cable systems have their own weakness: they were originally built only for one-way service to the home. But by adding switching technology, many systems hope to offer a free-wheeling mix of video entertainment, phone service and two-way data communications.
Tele-Communications Inc. of Denver, the nation's biggest cable company, recently announced plans to introduce technology that would give systems as many as 500 channels. Last month, Time Warner Inc. announced it was building a system in Orlando, Fla., to provide video on demand as well as two-way communications.
Indeed, some experts argue that the cable industry may have a big short-term cost advantage.
Bruce L. Egan, a research fellow at Columbia University's Institute for Tele-Information, recently estimated the amount of money needed by the cable and the telephone industries to upgrade their services.
To reach the modest goal of supplying both conventional cable television and ordinary phone service over the same line, telephone companies would have to spend about $1,500 per customer while cable firms could spend just $300, Mr. Egan said.
Building the most advanced system -- high-speed, two-way communications for both video and data -- could cost the same amount for each side, $1,500 or so per line.
Cable's "advantage is in the short run," said Mr. Egan. "But the short run may be what really matters."
 
A New Weapon
 Bell Atlantic executives question comparisons like this one, saying that the costs of new technology will almost certainly come down as modernization accelerates. Meanwhile, hoping to short-circuit the cable industry, the company is now rolling out an innovative interim technology called Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line, or A.D.S.L. Developed by Bellcore, a research consortium owned by the seven Bell companies, A.D.S.L. makes it possible for the first time to send TV images as good as those from a videocassette recorder over an ordinary copper wire.
The new technology can only send a single channel of television at one time. But the allure is that customers could eventually have a virtually limitless number of choices, because the telephone switching network would allow people to order up the programs from a huge computerized jukebox. As envisioned, customers could dial up not only the phone company's jukebox but those of other information providers.
"This battle will be fought in two dimensions," said Stuart C. Johnson, president of Bell Atlantic regional services. "One is convenience and the other is variety. Five hundred channels is still a broadcast technology. Our concept is to provide switched architecture, which will give our customers infinite variety."
But experts emphasize that the technology still has big limitations. Couch potatoes won't be able to flip through different channels, for example, because the system takes as long as five minutes to cue up a program.
An even bigger drawback is that the system can't transmit live programs, which rules out offering news or sport events. The problem is that the system must compress the video into a comparatively small stream of digital data, a process that takes time and must be done in advance.
Bell Atlantic executives say this is only a temporary hitch and that equipment available within two years will quadruple the amount of data that can be sent and enable them to handle live programming.
But others are skeptical about both the technology and the economics. "The basic business case isn't there," said Jerome Lucas, president of Tele-Strategies Inc., a consulting firm in McLean, Va. "The technology is too expensive to get costs down to the level of video rental stores," he argued, adding that cable companies can pull off similar feats at lower costs.
Meanwhile, Bell Atlantic has been pressing toward the ultimate solution: running optical fibers, which can carry almost unlimited amounts of information, into every neighborhood, as it hopes to do in New Jersey.
Bell Atlantic executives and many analysts say the most logical path is to team up with cable companies. But that may prove difficult. Mr. Shapiro, of Arthur D. Little, noted that cable companies now collaborate with each other on many fronts, especially in producing popular programs, and many may be reluctant to raid each other's markets with help from a telephone company. And many cable companies seem bent on upgrading their own networks rather than leasing lines from the phone industry.
Others contend that the public would be better off with fewer mergers of telephone and cable systems.
"There are a lot of people in both the telephone and the cable industries who think that one wire to the home is enough," said Philip J. Sirlin, vice president of Strategic Systems Group in Woodbury, Conn. "I'm not convinced of that."
For his part, Bell Atlantic's Mr. Smith remains exuberantly optimistic. Competition is inevitable, he said, but cable companies underestimate the challenge of providing failsafe two-way communications.
"They're going to find out it's very difficult to move into our territory, if we have anything to say about it," he said.
 
 
A BELL ATLANTIC SITCOM
 FOR most of this century, telephone companies did not have to sell anything. They were monopoly utilities, supplying a necessity of modern life.
But now the phone companies are trying to sell a growing list of frills, from Caller ID to a feature that blocks calls from particular numbers, and even the most hokey sales gimmicks are getting a try.
In the past year, the Bell Atlantic Corporation has used door-to-door salespeople from Amway; set up shop in Kmart stores; was part of a direct-mail effort with Domino's Pizza and touted its services as a long-term "headache remedy" in envelopes containing Tylenol tablets.
But all that is timid compared with "The Ringers," the world's first 30-minute television "infomercial" written as a situation comedy. The show chronicles the misadventures of what Bell Atlantic calls America's "funniest, phoniest" family.
Something of a blend between "Father Knows Best" and "Roseanne," the show features Ralph Ringer, a plumber, and his wife, Rhonda, and their two children, whose names also begin with an "R." Hilarity ensues when teen-age daughter Rachel gets tangled in boy problems, only to be rescued by new phone features like call-waiting. A toll-free number flashes at the end, so viewers can order services on the spot.
The infomercial was broadcast in November in Baltimore and company officials say the results were encouraging. More episodes will be produced this year for broadcast elsewhere in the company's service area.
 
A SHORT-TERM SOLUTION
 WHILE it will take decades and billions of dollars to build a high-speed fiber optic highway that links every home and business, Bell Atlantic has been the most aggressive of the seven Bell companies in offering a low-cost interim technology that dramatically boosts the power of ordinary phone lines.
Called the Integrated Services Digital Network, or I.S.D.N., the technology makes it possible to simultaneously send voice, video images and computer data over a conventional phone line. I.S.D.N. transforms all information into the ones and zeroes of computer code and speeds up data transmission by nearly 15-fold over today's fastest modems.
Using I.S.D.N., people in different locations can collaborate on a writing project, with each watching the work progress on a separate computer screen. And doctors can exchange high-resolution color images of a patient's body in less than a minute.
The appeal of I.S.D.N. is that it can be within the price-range of individuals and small businesses, but the phone companies vary widely in how fast they are making it available and how much they charge.
Bell Atlantic plans to offer I.S.D.N. on 87 percent of its lines by the end of 1994, the fastest deployment of any regional phone company. Convinced that widespread adoption will jumpstart the market for lucrative information services over phone lines, the company is charging a flat rate of $28 a month for each line -- a modest premium over regular phone service.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Studying the movie menu in Bell Atlantic's high-tech house. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times); Raymond W. Smith (pg. 6)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)
 
Table: "The Price to Upgrade," shows estimated costs for cable and telephone to upgrade their network systems nationwide, (Source: Bruce Egan, Institute for Tele-Information, Columbia University.) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); T (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); ARTHUR D LITTLE INC (64%); AT&T INC (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FIBER OPTICS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L CRAIG R SMITH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



606 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Can America Endure Kicking A Deficit Habit?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS tend to assume that every economic cycle will be like the previous ones. That is why nearly all were stunned by how long it took the economy to begin a significant recovery after the 1990-91 recession. And it is why President Clinton's economic plan is provoking talk of a new recession.
Underlying such talk is the fear that this economy is like a heroin addict, able to function only with a massive injection of fiscal stimulus. Addicts know that the drugs are likely to lead to death, but they crave the immediate high and fear the pain that would come from withdrawal symptoms. 
 That view of the economy gained strength after Washington's last effort to reduce its dependence on deficit spending. The 1990 budget deal was ill timed, coming just as the economy was weakening anyway, and it helped to produce the last recession. And the recession, in turn, caused tax receipts to plunge, making the deficit even worse.
"The thing that is wrong with the economic program is that is would scuttle the recovery," said Byron Wien, Morgan Stanley's chief U.S. strategist. He still thinks stocks will move higher, but that is based in part on the assumption that the Clinton program will not win approval. It would, he said, lower consumer spending and raise business costs "when the recovery is just getting off the ground."
There is, however, reason to hope that Mr. Wien may be wrong. Mr. Clinton's fiscal brew is of an unusual type. It takes money from the well off and distributes it, through higher spending on such things as Head Start and highway building, to groups lower on the economic scale.
Because the rich are more likely to invest a marginal dollar of income, while the poor are more likely to spend it, that can provide a short-term economic stimulus only partly offset by the broad-based, and regressive, energy tax. Add in the fact that the Clinton plan's deficit impact is quite mild in the first couple of years, and the fiscal pain begins to appear bearable.
Another positive is that markets are narrowing the spread between long-term and short-term interest rates. That cuts the profit banks can get from buying Government securities, and may encourage them to step up lending, thus providing some stimulus.
It is in later years that the economic impact grows more dubious. A strategy of bringing down the deficit is supposed to free up investment for private use, but tax-the-rich schemes reduce money available for investment. If those taxes really bite, the bond market's current euphoria might prove to be excessive.
Last week began with a stock market plunge, partly reflecting concern over the anti-business rhetoric that dominated the President's Monday night talk.
But prices then stabilized, in part because individual investors see declines as buying opportunities. It may be that traders assume Washington won't risk the pain, but it is also possible that they believe the economy can survive kicking the deficit habit.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Falls 70.25 to 3,322.18," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Feb. 12-19, 1993; "Long-Term Rates Are Falling," tracks yield of the 30-year Treasury bond, Nov. 1992-Feb, 19, 1993; "Rate Spreads Are Lower," tracks difference between yields of five-year Treasury bonds and three-month Treasury bills, Nov. 1992-Feb. 19, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HEROIN (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BONDS (63%); BOND MARKETS (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



607 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Computer Giants See the Danger of Following I.B.M.

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
JAPAN'S industrial policy for building a computer industry has been shaped for 30 years by the goal of catching up to the International Business Machines Corporation. Now, Japan's computer giants are in danger of following I.B.M. right over the cliff.
Fujitsu Ltd. and Hitachi Ltd. -- together with the Amdahl Corporation, a Fujitsu affiliate based in Sunnyvale, Calif. -- have emerged as the world's major competitors to I.B.M. in mainframe computers. Their machines are considered superior to those of Big Blue in some cases and they have been gaining market share, contributing to I.B.M.'s problems. 
 But like I.B.M., Fujitsu and Hitachi now find themselves overly dependent on the big expensive machines and proprietary operating systems software at a time when the industry is undergoing a massive shift toward smaller machines and industry standard software. The two trends, known in industry parlance as downsizing and open systems, have punctured the profitability of the computer industry.
The implications might seem obvious. Fujitsu in particular "is going to go through a gut-wrenching three to five years where its experience will mirror that of I.B.M.," predicted Steven W. Myers, electronics analyst at Jardine Fleming Securities in Tokyo.
But the Japanese companies have one thing that I.B.M. did not -- advance warning. The movement toward smaller machines and standard software that hit I.B.M. so heavily is only now getting started in the Japanese market, two or three years behind the American market. That gives them time to react.
The will to move was reinforced, of course, by I.B.M.'s recent announcement of a $5 billion loss for 1992 and the impending departure of John F. Akers, its chief executive.
"NATURALLY, I was very surprised because I thought Mr. Akers was taking a lot of measures to restructure I.B.M.," said Tadashi Sekizawa, Fujitsu's president. But then he added, "It reconfirmed to me that Fujitsu has to take quicker steps to cope with the changing markets."
Both Fujitsu and Hitachi are shifting toward smaller computers and toward machines that use Unix as the basic operating software. They are emphasizing their software and service businesses instead of hardware. And they are trimming costs here and there.
But they have not resorted to the restructurings and employee reductions of I.B.M. and say they don't think they will need to, prompting some analysts to question whether they are too complacent.
The situation is most dire for Fujitsu, the world's No. 2 computer company after I.B.M. That's because it derives more than 70 percent of its $26 billion in annual revenues from computers. (Most of the rest is split between telecommunications and semiconductors.)
Company officials say only about 40 percent of the computer revenues, or less than a third of overall corporate revenues, come from mainframes, but that covers only the machines themselves and the operating systems software. If disk drives and mainframe applications software and services are included, mainframes probably account for 55 percent of the company's total business, said Mr. Myers of Jardine Fleming.
By contrast, mainframes account for about 20 percent of I.B.M.'s revenues and less than 50 percent when mainframe-related businesses like large disk drives and maintenance are included, according to estimates by Annex Research in Phoenix.
Until the last year or so, Fujitsu seemed immune to the problems at I.B.M. While I.B.M.'s revenues have been stagnant, Fujitsu's sales, helped by the acquisition of Britain's ICL, have grown about 60 percent in five years.
But now the pain has started, added to by Japan's recession. In the six months ended last Sept. 30, Fujitsu reported a net loss of 19.2 billion yen ($161 million), its first net loss ever. A loss is also expected for the full year.
For Hitachi, which is still profitable, about 65 percent of computer revenues, and a higher percentage of profits, come from mainframes, including disk drives, software and service, said Shigemichi Matsuka, board director and general manager of Hitachi's computer division.
But computers account for only about $11 billion of Hitachi's roughly $60 billion in revenues and the company has many other businesses, like electric power-generating equipment.
The new trends are not all bad for the Japanese. The move toward industry standard operating systems like Unix, developed by A.T.&T. and now being purchased by Novell Inc., will liberate Fujitsu and Hitachi from having to try to clone I.B.M. systems. Now, it will be Unix into which everyone will have to hook.
If all computers can use the same basic software, customers will choose machines based on just the hardware quality and price, which could play into the hands of the Japanese manufacturers, which have been better in hardware than in software.
The problem is that hardware profits are collapsing. Mainframes are made using exotic chip technology at which Fujitsu and Hitachi excel. But now machines of equivalent power can be made at a fraction of the cost from collections of inexpensive microprocessors.
I.B.M., for all its woes, is the world's leading manufacturer of personal computers and does respectably well in work stations. But that still hasn't allowed it to develop enough business to carry the huge number of employees it needed for the mainframe business. Both Fujitsu and Hitachi are far less successful in personal computers and work stations than I.B.M.
ANOTHER big difference between I.B.M. and the Japanese is in employment practices. I.B.M. has drastically cut its workforce, mainly through voluntary retirements, from 400,000 in 1986 to 300,000 now and more to come.
The Japanese companies say they cannot lay off people or even do massive voluntary retirement programs. Nor, they say, do they need to. Mr. Matsuka of Hitachi said the computer division is overstaffed by only 10 percent, which can be reduced gradually. The company employs a total of 324,000 people, 53,000 in computers. And Fujitsu has not set any target for staff reductions, although it recently said it would cut 20 percent of its 2,000 administrative jobs in finance, accounting and personnel. It employs a 156,000 people, but will not disclose how many work in computers.
Avoiding large-scale voluntary resignations could allow Fujitsu and Hitachi to sidestep the huge losses being reported by I.B.M., which come more from special restructuring charges than from operating results. On the other hand, the inability to shed workers rapidly could depress profits of Fujitsu and Hitachi for years, although low profits are more acceptable in Japan, where a company's shares are owned mainly by friendly banks and affiliates.
In Japan, both stocks have languished of late. Fujitsu was selling last week for around 525 yen, down from 850 yen at the beginning of 1992. Hitachi was selling for about 680 yen, down from 946 at the beginning of 1992.
Hitachi, but not Fujitsu, also trades on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American depository receipts. Last week, these shares were trading at under $57, , near their 52-week low of $55.50 and well below the 52-week high of $68.50.
MR. SEKIZAWA, who is 61, has been trying to light a fire at Fujitsu. The company formed a special open systems unit and another semi-independent personal business systems unit to spur development of small machines.
Fujitsu is also stressing software and service, which accounts for more than 30 percent of computer revenues. Japanese computer companies often write the accounting and inventory management and other programs used by their customers. In the past, however, this software was often practically given away, or included in the price of the machine. Now, the computer companies, in part pushed by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, are trying to charge separately.
Mr. Sekizawa is also pinning his hopes on multimedia, the combination of data, video and sound that could spur new uses of computers.
He envisions Fujitsu as a provider of all parts of the multimedia chain, from the handheld video-computers to the networks needed to transmit such information. Fujitsu, for instance, just won a contract from the Nynex Corporation for a new type of telephone switch that can handle video signals as well as voices.
In consumer multimedia equipment, Fujitsu was a pioneer with its FM Towns computer, which can display images and play music from CD-ROM compact disks. Having had moderate success with FM Towns, the company last week introduced a portable CD-ROM player that attaches to a television set. In the next few months, Fujitsu is expected to introduce an electronic book -- a tiny device consisting mostly of a liquid crystal display screen that will show pages of books stored on memory chip cards. To enhance its move into multimedia, Fujitsu has finally entered the business of making sophisticated liquid crystal display screens.
Fujitsu also is finding support from various acquisitions and alliances. Because it became a manufacturer of Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Sparc microprocessor, Fujitsu found itself in the fortunate position of being able to resell Sun work stations in Japan.
Indeed, Fujitsu's partners, Amdahl and ICL of Britain, are also working on products based on the Sparc microprocessor and are trying to share more efforts to cut costs.
Another important piece of that strategy is the 44 percent stake Fujitsu owns in a Silicon Valley startup named Hal Computer Systems, for which it paid $40 million in 1991. As with Amdahl, Hal is headed by a former star designer at I.B.M., in this case R. Andrew Heller, who led the development of I.B.M. work stations. His new company is developing super-powerful Sparc microprocesors and a whole family of computers that will use those chips.
Mr. Heller dismisses criticisms that Fujitsu executives are too complacent. But the changes in the business are so great it might be impossible to adjust without great pain.
"They know it's going to happen," he said. "I don't think they know how to react to it."
 
 
IN THE BEGINNING . . .
 The seeds of the current situation in the Japanese computer industry date back to the late 1950's, when Japan's Government began an effort to build the industry. As I.B.M. came to dominate the world market, the powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry decided that compatibility with the giant was the best policy. In the early 70's, it divided Japan's six largest industrial electronics companies into three teams to design different-sized computers. Fujitsu and Hitachi were teamed to develop the largest ones.
In the ensuing decades, Fujitsu and Hitachi have waged a sometimes brutal war against Big Blue. Hitachi in 1982 was caught in a Federal Bureau of Investigation sting operation trying to buy I.B.M. trade secrets. In a separate case, Fujitsu, after a lengthy arbitration, was told to pay more than $800 million for the right to examine I.B.M. mainframe software for a period of 10 years.
In the 1970's, Fujitsu bankrolled Gene Amdahl, a former star mainframe designer at I.B.M., as he started the Amdahl Corporation, which achieved the first success with I.B.M.-compatible mainframes. In 1990, Fujitsu paid $1.3 billion for majority ownership of ICL, Britain's leading computer company, in an effort to expand its operations globally.
I.B.M., in turn, began to regard the Japanese as its biggest threats. But it turned out that machines based on cheap microprocessors were the biggest enemies of all. While MITI's strategy might have been right at first, the attention to fighting I.B.M. no doubt prevented Fujitsu and Hitachi from reacting sooner to the emergence of smaller machines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tadashi Sekizawa, president of Fujitsu, is trying to cope. (Yuichi Itabashi for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Relying on the Mainframe," shows shipments of computer hardware in Japan, the U.S. and Europe, by class of computer in 1991 (Source: International Data Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (96%); 6702 (TSE) (96%); IBMC (BRU) (96%); IBM (NYSE) (96%); IBM (LSE) (96%); 6501 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: FUJITSU LTD; HITACHI LTD; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) FUJITSU LTD (96%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (96%); HITACHI LTD (93%); JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUJITSU LTD; HITACHI LTD; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET SHARE (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



608 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

New York Mardi Gras
MONDAY -- Melba Moore will perform at a Mardi Gras party to raise funds for Steps to End Family Violence, which helps victimized women and their families, from 6 to 9 P.M. at the Surrogate's Court, 31 Chambers Street, at Centre Street. Buffet dinner and open bar. Tickets, $85, from (212) 689-9629 or at the door. 

A Room of Their Own
MONDAY -- The Writers Room, which provides work space for up to 150 writers at 153 Waverly Place in Manhattan, is celebrating its 15th anniversary with a benefit from 8 P.M. to midnight at the Puck Building, 295 Lafayette Street, at Houston Street. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the writer Grace Paley, the poet Kenneth Koch and Jean Stein, editor and publisher of Grand Street magazine, will be honored. Hors d'oeuvres, beer and wine, and dancing to a Brazilian samba band. Tickets, $35, from (212) 807-9519 or at the door.
 
 Motion Picture Awards
MONDAY -- Shirley Temple Black will receive a career achievement award from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures at their annual fund-raiser, a cocktail reception at the Equitable Center, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street. Jack Nicholson, Judy Davis and Robin Williams are among those also receiving honors. Tickets, $100, from (212) 628-1594 or at the door.
 
 Helping the Elderly
MONDAY -- United Neighbors of East Midtown, which provides services to elderly people so that they can remain in their homes, is sponsoring a Winter Music Festival and raffle at St. Peter's Church, in the Citicorp building, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, from 6 to 8:30 P.M. Performers include jazz musicians, comedians and the Boys of St. Thomas Choir. Raffle prizes include an airline trip for two. Wine and hors d'oeuvres will be served. Tickets, $15, from (212) 682-1830 or at the door.
 
 Summer in February
MONDAY -- Warm-weather fare and a raffle of baseball memorabilia will be featured at the Summer Party in February benefit to be held by the Fund-Raising Council of the Associated Blind Inc., which provides services for blind New Yorkers, at J. P. Loftland's New York Grill, 29 West 21st Street at Fifth Avenue. Tickets, $35, from (212) 255-1122 ext. 14, or $40 at the door.
 
 Save the Orchids
TUESDAY -- An exhibition and sale of orchids will be part of the Tropical Rain Forest benefit in the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory at the New York Botanical Garden, 200th Street and Southern Boulevard in the Bronx, to raise funds to protect endangered plant species. The event begins with cocktails at 6:30 P.M. followed by dinner and dancing. Tickets, $250, from (212) 220-6782.
 
 Masks for AIDS
TUESDAY -- Masks by designers and artists, including Calvin Klein and Christo, will be auctioned off during a Mardi Gras benefit sponsored by the Young Executive Support group of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, from 8 P.M. to 1 A.M., at Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, between Third and Fourth avenues. Open bar, Cajun buffet and dancing to a New Orleans band. Costumes are encouraged, and there will be prizes for the best. Tickets, $75, from (212) 682-7440 or at the door.
 
 Playwrights Gathering
TUESDAY -- The playwright and actor John Pielmeier will present the New York premiere of his new one-man play at a performance to benefit the Gathering at Bigfork, a Montana arts festival that supports new theater work. A cocktail reception will follow the 8 P.M. performance of the play, "Willi, an Evening of Wilderness and Spirit," at Lambs Theater, 130 West 44th Street, between Sixth and Seventh avenues. Tickets, $25, from (212) 713-5625 or at the door.
 
 Medical Center Award
TUESDAY -- The New York financial industries division of the National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine in Denver will present its annual humanitarian award at a dinner dance to benefit the Center, at the Grand Hyatt Hotel. The event begins at 6 P.M. with a cocktail reception. Tickets, $400, from (212) 382-0711.
 
 Art at the Armory
WEDNESDAY -- A preview and cocktail reception to benefit the Henry Street Settlement will open the fifth annual five-day art show of the more than 60 members of the Art Dealers Association of America at the Seventh Regiment Armory, Park Avenue at 66th Street. Champagne, an open bar and hors d'oeuvres will be served during the 7 to 9 P.M. preview of the show, which includes several rare works by Matisse, and by artists from earlier centuries. Tickets, $135, from (212) 766-9200 or at the door.
 
 Toon Auction
WEDNESDAY -- Drawings and other cartoon artifacts from animation classics, including "Pinocchio," will be auctioned at Christie's East, 219 East 67th Street, between Second and Third avenues, when the auction house joins In Toon publications to benefit Variety, the Children's Charity, whose programs help sick and needy children in the metropolitan area. The event begins with a champagne reception at 6:30 P.M., with the auction at 8 P.M. Tickets, $35, from (212) 247-5588, or $40 at the door.
 
 "Wrong Turn"
WEDNESDAY -- A benefit performance of a new play, "Wrong Turn at Lungfish," with George C. Scott, Tony Danza and Jami Gertz, will raise funds for the Muscular Dystrophy Association. The play will be preceded by dinner from 6:30 to 7:30 P.M. at Jim McMullen, 1341 Third Avenue, between 76th and 77th streets. A round-trip trolley will ferry guests between the restaurant and the Promenade Theater. Tickets, $125, from (212) 557-9366.
 
 Tibetan Heritage
WEDNESDAY -- Laurie Anderson, Philip Glass, Allen Ginsberg and the Tibetan flautist Nawang Khechog will join the Ganden Shartse Monks in a special concert to celebrate Tibetan New Year and to raise funds for Tibet House, which seeks to preserve the region's cultural heritage. The 7:30 P.M. performance at Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, will be followed by dinner at Le Max, 147 West 43d Street. Tickets, $250 for dinner and concert, from (212) 213-5592, or concert tickets only, $15, from (212) 840-2824.
 
 Story Time
WEDNESDAY -- Writers and actresses will contribute to literacy at a benefit for the Jewish Community Center's literacy programs at P.S. 75, with a reading by Barbara Feldon and Ivy Austin, among others, of works by co-hosts Mona Simpson and Ethan Canin, and other writers. A light dinner and reception at the school, 95th Street at West End Avenue, follows the 6:30 P.M. performance at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street. Tickets, $36 for reading and reception or $25 for the reading only, from (212) 580-0099.
 
 Appreciating Opera
THURSDAY -- The world premiere of Carly Simon's new opera, "Romulus Hunt," will be part of a benefit for the Metropolitan Opera Guild's Education at the Met program; dinner with the composer and cast will follow at Tavern on the Green, Central Park West at 67th Street. A bus will transport guests round trip between the 7 P.M. performance at the John Jay Theater, 899 Tenth Avenue at 60th Street, and the restaurant. Tickets, $200, from (212) 769-7000.
 
 Celebrating the Big Easy
THURSDAY -- The young-professionals group of Heartshare Human Services of New York, whose programs help foster children, families in crisis and people with developmental disabilities, is sponsoring the Big Easy Party at Exit Art/The First World, 548 Broadway, between Spring and Prince streets. Beginning at 6:45 P.M., the event will feature an open bar, cocktail buffet and dancing, as well as an auction of more than 200 items, including sports and theater tickets and games of chance. Tickets, $35, from (718) 330-1101, or $45 at the door.
 
 Hats On for the Arts
FRIDAY -- The annual Hatter's Ball, to benefit the scholarship fund for Creative Arts, a summer program at the Convent of the Sacred Heart for boys and girls 8 to 15, will be held in the Burden Mansion, 1 East 91st Street, at Fifth Avenue. Guests are encouraged to wear -- and create -- hats; there will be a hat parade and a prize for the best one. The actress Moira Kelly will receive an award for her commitment to -- and achievement in -- the arts. Hors d'oeuvres, an open bar and dancing from 7 to 11 P.M. Tickets, $60, from (212) 722-4745, or $75 at the door.
 
 Junior League Ball
FRIDAY -- The New York Junior League will hold a Winter Ball Masquerade at the Waldorf-Astoria to raise funds for its community service projects. Cocktails at 8 P.M. will be followed by dinner and dancing, and a raffle for prizes that include a trip for two to New Orleans and tickets to a Broadway play. Black tie or costume. Tickets, $140 for dinner and dancing or $65 ($75 at the door) for dancing only, from (212) 288-6220, ext. 267.
 
 Serving Children
SATURDAY -- The Staten Island Mental Health Society, which for 40 years has provided services for up to 3,000 economically disadvantaged children with emotional, developmental or neurological problems, is celebrating with an anniversary ball at Essex House, 160 Central Park South. The event begins with a cocktail reception at 7:30 P.M., followed by dinner and dancing. Tickets, $140, from (718) 442-2225, ext. 215 or 222.
 
 For an Arts Community
SATURDAY -- Cummington Community of the Arts, a 70-year-old artists' colony in Massachusetts, will hold a silent art auction and present a one-act play written and acted by a former resident, at the Thread Waxing Space, 476 Broadway, at Broome Street. The evening begins at 7 P.M. with champagne, followed by a light buffet and dancing. There will be a cash bar. Artworks can be viewed the day of the benefit or the day before at the gallery, from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Tickets, $50, or $25 for artists, from (212) 505-7713 or at the door.
 
 Animal Overpopulation
SATURDAY -- Spay/USA, which subsidizes the neutering of pets and distributes educational materials about the need for neutering, will hold its first fund-raiser, a masked Mardi Gras Ball, at the Prop Gallery, decorated with some of the scenery it supplies to Broadway theaters, at 451 West 54th Street, between Ninth and Tenth avenues. Starting at 8:30 P.M. there will be Cajun hors d'oeuvres, tropical punches and dancing to a New Orleans beat. Tickets, $50, from (800) 248-7729, or $60 at the door.
 
 Year of the Rooster
SATURDAY -- The 19th annual Chinese New Year celebration will be offered by the Asian Americans for Equality, which provides social services to people on the Lower East Side and in Chinatown, at a banquet and awards ceremony at the Silver Palace Restaurant, 50 Bowery, at Canal Street. The banquet with cash bar begins at 7 P.M. A performance of the Unicorn Dance, the traditional Chinese New Year dance, and an awards ceremony will follow. Tickets, $75, from (212) 677-7210.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%); NATIONAL BOARD OF REVIEW OF MOTION PICTURES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BOARD OF REVIEW OF MOTION PICTURES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FUNDRAISING (90%); MARDI GRAS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); DANCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (88%); MUSIC (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BASEBALL (71%); BEER & ALE (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%); PUBLISHING (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); AGING (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); PLANT CONSERVATION (63%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (61%); 

PERSON: DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (56%); ROBIN WILLIAMS (55%); JACK NICHOLSON (55%); SHIRLEY TEMPLE BLACK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



609 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Bristol, Pa.;
Redeveloping The Old Mill

BYLINE: By David J. Wallace

 BODY:
THE redevelopment of a four-building mill complex has given its main tenant a new lease on life and provided a new source of office, warehouse and distribution space for this former industrial town.
Over the last 10 years, Fred Baumgarten has renovated portions of the Grundy Industrial Complex, a 335,000-square-foot former woolen mill. He bought the four buildings for $295,000 in 1982 rather than relocate his Majestic Mills, which has rented 120,000 square feet since the 1960's. The company processes fabrics, packaging them for clothing manufacturers. 
 Work is under way to prepare 8,500 square feet for a furniture warehouse, said Joseph Scott, the property's manager. When it is occupied, there will be about 60,000 square feet of space that could be made quickly available, he said. The rest of the space, he said, is being used for storage by Majestic Mills.
Although renovations of the remaining space are done on an as-needed basis, Mr. Baumgarten said he had spent "in the significant six figures" renovating the complex, whose first structure was built in 1876 to produce woolen fabrics.
The building is on the National Register of Historic Places, but Mr. Baumgarten said he had not sought Federal tax credits for the 12-acre project, at the corner of Canal and Jefferson Streets.
After its career as a textile mill, part of the complex was used to warehouse tea in a storehouse built in 1910. These days the complex, about a half-hour drive northeast of Philadelphia, has such tenants as a parts supplier for Army jeeps, a computer-assisted design firm that produces robots and several storage users.
"These buildings are structurally obsolete," Mr. Baumgarten said. "My hope is to make them relevant to the 21st century.
The interconnected buildings surround a courtyard. Atop the storehouse is the complex's trademark -- a four-sided lighted clocktower topped by a flagpole.
Demand for space has been slow because of competition, Mr. Baumgarten said. The recession has forced down rents for comparable space to $4 or $5 a square foot, even at several industrial parks closer to the Pennsylvania Turnpike and Interstate 95. Grundy is several miles from the highways within the narrow streets of Bristol Borough.
"It's a chameleon, it's whatever you want it to be," said Steve Cooper, a broker with Cushman & Wakefield, which represents a nearby property. "Tenants are still making good deals so there's downward pressure on rents."
Founded in 1681, Bristol became an early industrial center because of its canal link in 1800 to Trenton and northeastern Pennsylvania and a railroad connection by the 1830's. The borough's Victorian-era homes draw tourists to scenic spots along the Delaware River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRISTOL (PA) UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS TEXTILE MFG (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); FABRICS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (78%); TEXTILES (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (65%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); APPAREL MFG (55%); ARMIES (52%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



610 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 15; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Measuring Schools And Dollars

 BODY:
"Comparing School Spending and Taxes" [Jan. 31] makes the unfortunate and all-too-common error of confusing property-tax rates with property taxes paid. High property taxes are generated by a low tax rate on highly assessed property as surely as by a high tax rate on more reasonably assessed property. The heterogeneity that marks other aspects of Long Island school districts is also manifested in real-property assessment.
Another misleading assumption of the article is that dollars-spent-per-child is an automatic indicator of educational quality. Based on New York State Education Department statistics measuring student performance by such instruments as standardized test scores and numbers of Regents-accredited high school diplomas earned by local graduates, denoting successful completion of an academically rigorous curriculum, the high price paid by the taxpayers of the Oyster Bay school district does not translate into superior education for its students. Instead, it supports a highly paid, excessively numerous administrative and teaching staff most notable for its insistence that mediocre student achievement is really "excellence." 
 I find it most interesting that those who are reported to find school consolidation "unworkable" are the very people in whose economic or other personal interest it is to maintain an archaic, expensive, wasteful, unconscionable multiplicity of local school districts, which number 56 in Nassau County alone.
 
DORIS MEYER
The writer is on the executive board of the Oyster Bay-East Norwich Com mitte for Accountability and Responsibility in Education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TAXATION PROPERTY TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, MARC F (SUPT)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



611 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Bold Plan Sets Social Policy His Way

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR all its sweep and potential economic impact, the budget proposal that President Clinton delivered last week is far more than an ambitious plan to recharge the economy and reduce the deficit. It is a blueprint for one of the most profound changes in social policy in this century.
The budget is the policy, as the architects of Ronald Reagan's military buildup in the 1980's well knew. Mr. Clinton's budget would, in effect, transfer a great share of power from that bureaucracy, the followers of former Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, to the disciples of Marian Wright Edelman, the crusader for children, who has long been a source of inspiration for Hillary and Bill Clinton. 
 This is no hidden agenda. The new President titled his budget "A Vision of Change for America." What that means, in short, is an end to 12 years of laissez-faire social policy.
One must scrutinize Mr. Clinton's tax and spending proposals to see how pervasive the social changes might be. National income, and political control over it, would be redistributed. Many of the proposals would aid members of minority groups and the poor, even though Mr. Clinton, for political reasons, chose to emphasize potential benefits for the middle class.
In the budget, Mr. Clinton portrays Government as a powerful engine of social change, a catalyst for economic growth, an incubator for new technology, a partner of private industry.
And more is on the way. Much more. In 10 weeks, Mr. Clinton will publish his plan to overhaul one-seventh of the nation's economy: the vast health-care industry, now growing by $100 billion a year.
The evidence of change was on every page of Mr. Clinton's budget and his economic program. He said his proposals were intended to combat an "alarming rise in inequality" -- a trend repeatedly denied or minimized by Reagan and Bush Administration officials.
After a decade in which Republican Presidents proclaimed their desire to get Government off the backs of the people, Mr. Clinton said it was time for the Government to get up off its back and put people to work. Thus, he would increase the number enrolled in the Job Corps to 104,000, from the current 70,000.
"In America," Mr. Clinton said, "no one who works should have to raise a family in poverty." So he proposed a huge expansion of the Federal tax credit for low-income working families with children, at a cost to the Treasury of $27 billion over five years. In the same period, he asks an extra $13.8 billion for Head Start and $3.6 billion on the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children.
Mr. Clinton's budget puts into practice the philosophy of Mrs. Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund. In lectures at Harvard in 1986, referring to "the greedy military weasel," she said the money spent on Star Wars research in one year could lift 2.5 million children out of poverty. Seven years later, Mr. Clinton proposes slashing Star Wars funds.
Mr. Clinton also used Mrs. Edelman's strategy to build a multiracial coalition. He did not talk much about minority groups or civil rights last week. But blacks would probably benefit from many of his proposals because their poverty rate is three times that of whites.
Ronald Reagan often seemed to suspect that many dollars spent by Government agencies other than the Pentagon were wasted. But Mr. Clinton declared that "every dollar of Federal spending, worthy or unworthy, is someone's income." Accordingly, he says the Federal budget deficit must be reduced -- but not too quickly, lest recipients of Federal largess cut their spending.
There is little danger of that, however.
On Wednesday, the White House said the President's plan would reduce the deficit by $493 billion over four years. Detailed budget documents issued a day later showed the savings would be $325 billion. This was no bookkeeping error. Nor was it a deliberate attempt at misrepresentation by Mr. Clinton or his budget director, Leon E. Panetta.
Rather, the discrepancy shows their fragmented view of the budget, their failure to integrate their attack on the deficit with their proposals to increase spending on children, highways, the environment and job training.
The gap between the two numbers is the difference between gross savings and net savings. One-third of the savings initially claimed by Mr. Clinton would be given away in new tax breaks or spent in programs to stimulate the economy or "invest" in America's future. He simply omitted those costs from his initial calculations. The brutal discipline of the Federal budget recognizes no distinctions between worthy and unworthy spending. If the Government spends $10 on vaccine, the outlay increases the deficit now, and the budget takes no account of what might be saved later.
Mr. Clinton's belief in Government's helping hand can be seen in his proposals to aid workers and industries hurt by cuts in Pentagon spending. He wants the Economic Development Administration at the Commerce Department to help "communities hurt by defense reductions." By contrast, Mr. Reagan had proposed to abolish the economic development agency.
Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush scorned proposals for Government to help high-tech industries, as governments do in other countries. But Mr. Clinton would invest Federal money in nationwide data networks, high-performance computers, fiber-optic communications and magnetic levitation trains.
John F. Cogan, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget under Mr. Reagan, said: "The spending side of Clinton's budget has a strong political component. It is weighted toward big-city programs like mass transit, summer youth jobs and community development grants." The United States Conference of Mayors, which rarely had a good word to say about Mr. Reagan or Mr. Bush, hailed the Clinton budget, saying it would provide billions of dollars for public works.
Within hours after the President delivered his plan to Congress, he and his Cabinet fanned out across the country like traveling salesmen to promote it. His efforts to cut the Federal budget deficit won praise from Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
As a recipe for revolution, Mr. Clinton's budget suffers by comparison with Mr. Reagan's "Program for Economic Recovery," issued Feb. 18, 1981. Mr. Reagan's proposals were far more numerous and specific, and they generated the political momentum that enabled him to drive his program through a skeptical Congress.
Mr. Clinton has strong allies on Capitol Hill. But with moderate and conservative Democrats skittish about many of his proposals, it is not clear whether his revolution will come off entirely as planned.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton campaigning for his economic program in St. Louis last week. (Reuters) (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TRENDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



612 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
For U.S., Aid To Terrorists Is Hard To Define

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE very idea that terrorist operations could be orchestrated from within the United States is alien to an American sensibility that regards terrorism as a thankfully foreign phenomenon.
Yet that is the image some Israeli officials are now seeking to imprint in the American consciousness. Sharing findings gained from the interrogation of an Arab-American prisoner, they asserted last week that command and control over Hamas, the Palestinian terrorist group, is exercised not from the West Bank or Teheran but from a headquarters in suburban Virginia. 
 And Israel is far from the only foreign government pointing a finger at operations on American soil. Egypt has accused Islamic fundamentalists in New Jersey of encouraging terrorist attacks by others along the Nile. Britain protests the United States' willingness to tolerate Boston barroom collections for the "charitable causes" of the Irish Republican Army.
Indeed, experts say terrorists have deeper American roots than is commonly recognized; residents of this country have long given at least aid and comfort to terrorist causes. But the indirectness of such efforts has made it difficult for authorities to intervene. For those who have studied the phenomenon, the latest assertions only add to years of frustration about the difficulty of distinguishing ferment from violence.
If this latest round of blamesmanship causes one person to look askance at another, however, that would be overreaction. Only a very small number of dissidents here lend any kind of a hand to foreign causes, according to law-enforcement officials who worry that Arab-Americans and members of other ethnic groups might become targets of unfounded fears.
Of course, the United States has had its own vivid encounters with terrorism, even at home. In 1954, Puerto Rican nationalists shot and wounded five members of Congress on the floor of the House of Representatives. Croatian terrorists carried out attacks during the 1960's and 1970's on Yugoslav immigrants; so too did Armenians against Turks residing in America. A 1988 bombing plot by a member of the Japanese Red Army was interrupted only when the man was found to be carrying the explosives along the New Jersey Turnpike.
But the latest suspicions have to do with a different kind of conduct. Rather than aiming attacks at American soil, those now under scrutiny are alleged to be using the United States as refuge to plot operations abroad. Just as Cubans in Miami once helped to mastermind terrorist campaigns in their homeland, some Arab-Americans are giving support and direction to attacks by Hamas's military wing against Israeli civilians, the Israeli Government says. But experts like Bruce Hoffman of the Rand Corporation say that it is rare that American-based sympathizers of such groups have crossed the line from aid to control.
"Any number of terrorist groups over the years have had extensive fund-raising and some recruitment in the United States," Mr. Hoffman said in an interview last week. "But if it were true that these supporters were providing direct leadership, that would really be a departure from the norm."
United States officials have expressed a similar skepticism. Although the Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into the allegations about Hamas's network of American support, the officials say the structure appears responsible principally for raising money, mostly for the organization's political and social welfare activities. They say that the military wing of Hamas is almost certainly still controlled from within the occupied West Bank. That contrasts with the Israelis' contention that Palestinian-Americans living in the United States actually play crucial roles in coordinating the organization's political and military operations.
A similar dispute exists between the United States and Egypt over the roles played by Islamic fundamentalists who meet periodically in New Jersey motels with Omar Abdel-Rahman, a militant leader. Egyptian officials have complained that tape recordings of the sessions are shared with similar groups in Cairo. But American authorities say the recordings offer encouragement, not direction, for the violent challenges to Egyptian authority.
Yet no one pretends that such technicalities disprove the link between these groups and terrorism. As Britain has long protested, even contributions to the "charitable activities" of the Irish Northern Aid Committee frees up other funds used by the I.R.A. for more violent endeavors. To terrorism experts like Brian Jenkins of Kroll and Associates, a security consulting firm, such distinctions are little more than gradations.
"The supporters may say that donations are going to support widows and orphans," Mr. Jenkins said. "Money is fungible, though, and it's pretty plain that this is financial support for terrorism."
But United States law embraces such fine distinctions, and American authorities say that is what limits their ability to satisfy the foreign complaints. It is not enough to show that an individual supports or is affiliated with the group; the Constitution protects First Amendment rights to free speech and association. To win prosecution, authorities must prove a link between a suspect and an act of terrorist crime.
Depending on the outcome of a trial now under way in Los Angeles, the Government may gain further latitude. Federal prosecutors are seeking to deport two Palestinians accused of raising money and otherwise giving assistance to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a militant wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization. The case will test a 1990 immigration law authorizing the expulsion of non-citizens who have given "material support" for a terrorist organization.
Civil rights advocates protest that the widened authority would deprive immigrants of their First Amendment rights. But law enforcement officials frustrated by current constraints say a favorable ruling would give them an important new tool. "We're the only nation in the world that can't uninvite people to our shores even when we find that they're engaged in supporting terrorist groups involved in attacks on Americans or American allies," said Oliver Revell, who until recently led the F.B.I.'s investigations division.
But some experts most concerned about the sustenance given to terrorism say the answer may require a shift not in power but perspective. "What I see out of it all is a negligent United States," said Robert Kupperman, a adviser to the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "We get fixated on every incident that takes place abroad. But I don't think we're doing what we need in monitoring terrorist activities in the United States."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN (55%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) RAND CORP (61%); HAMAS (83%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) HAMAS (83%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HAMAS (90%); RELIGION (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ARAB AMERICANS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ARMIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SHOOTINGS (69%); FUNDAMENTALISM (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); CHARITIES (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ETHNICITY (50%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS TZIPORA LIVNI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



613 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: Those High-Tech Jobs for Retrained Workers

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: BAL HARBOUR, Fla.

 BODY:
WHAT American workers need are a lot more high-wage, high-skilled "quality" jobs, as President Clinton called them last week. Find those jobs and train people to do them, and the Government, the schools, industry and the labor unions will build a prosperous middle class and the mighty American economy of the 21st century.
"We need an aggressive attempt to create the high-tech jobs of the future," the President said. That was just a thematic salvo to the jobs plan the Administration will eventually put together. But the planners might have to do some heavy thinking about one dimension: just what are those high-tech jobs? 
 "We're raising the same question," says Morton Bahr, president of the communications workers union that represents most A.T.& T. employees. "What jobs are you going to train people for? We don't know what the answer is." Does Ron Carey, president of the teamsters union know? "No," he says. "I would not know how that comes about."
This could be an urgent question for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders who held their winter meeting in Bal Harbour last week and for the politicians who came to pay their respects, including the new Labor Secretary, Robert B. Reich. Giant companies like General Motors, I.B.M., United Technologies, Boeing, Eastman Kodak and Sears, Roebuck are still shedding workers, many of them high-wage, highly skilled machinists, tool makers, sheet metal workers, accountants, supervisors and systems engineers.
With G.M. and I.B.M. boarding up factories, many of those jobs will never return. And in this economic recovery, unlike those of the past, many other businesses' skilled jobs that succumbed in the recession are only trickling back. So where will the cast-offs go? Where will their sons and daughters go in the 21st century when they set about looking for the kinds of jobs their parents had?
A good job pays at least "$40,000 a year with decent benefits," says Richard L. Trumka, president of the United Mine Workers. But what many skilled workers are getting now are low-wage, low-skilled, lousy jobs. In the view of people at the unions' executive council meeting here, the middle class that emerged in the bustling economy of the 1950's and 1960's is sliding into the ranks of the working poor. The skilled, two-worker, two-job family with generous health and pension benefits is becoming the unskilled, two-worker, two, three and four part-time job family without benefits.
If things keep going as they are now, Secretary Reich has been saying for some time, the work force will keep dividing into an educated elite, with brainy and computer-connected lawyers, investment bankers and consultants on one side; and vastly more people, without college degrees, toiling at the only other jobs -- ringing up groceries, cleaning office buildings and making deliveries.
Unlike many of the union presidents, Mr. Reich also believes he knows where the high-wage, high-skilled jobs will be, provided business and labor join the Clinton Administration in creating them. "What we lack," he said in an interview here, "is a layer of technicians -- technical workers who are earning good wages and who could comprise the new middle class.
"Example," Mr. Reich said: "In this country we have a dwindling number of computer-aided machine operators. Why? Because robots are gradually taking over. But in Europe, there's a growing number of computer-aided machine programmers. People who know how to program the machines and make them work ever more flexibly in the production systems there."
Another example, he said, is engineering. An American engineer is one of the elite who usually needs a graduate degree to go to work. But he said many engineering tasks require less preparation, just two or three years after high school. Europeans can get that training, he said, and Americans cannot.
"The global economy is producing the capacity for a vast number of technician jobs that are semi-skilled, both in the manufacturing sector and the service sector," he said. "But the technician class earning middle-class wages is not developing here." In the Reich view, build an American labor force on workers like this, and employers, including foreign companies, will set up American factories and offices to hire them.
Mr. Reich's prescription jibes with what a few unions are already doing. They are collaborating with companies like A.T.&T., Xerox and several steel companies to create what they call factories of the future. Workers help design their own jobs. They learn a variety of skills, they supervise themselves and they join with management in devising ways to make what they make better and faster and cheaper.
A problem arises, however. As worker-technicians work more efficiently, they raise their productivity. That means a business produces more and more semiconductors, loaves of bread, refrigerators or banking transactions with the same crew of workers -- or the same number of goods and services with fewer workers.
For these industries to employ tens of millions of workers, someone has to buy their goods. The hope is that consumers all over the globe will buy them, making America the world's department store. This is not a uniquely American insight, however. Other countries, notably Germany and Japan, have similar schemes.
So far at least, the hyperproductive American businesses that are conquering world markets are far too few to stop the decline of the old high-wage, high-skilled jobs. Sometimes, too, a factory of the future can get in just as much trouble as a factory of the past when no one wants its goods.
 
Workers Learn Computer Design
 Peter S. diCicco, a top official of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and previously the New England director for the electronic and electrical workers union, collaborated with General Electric in creating such a factory in Lynn, Mass.
Highly productive, highly skilled workers there build the rotating parts for jet engines. "The workers learn computer design," he said, "production routing, the capacity of various machines -- a whole variety of different skills."
Alas, the loss-ridden airlines have stopped ordering airplanes, putting jobs at the Lynn plant, as at Boeing's plants in Seattle and Wichita, in jeopardy. And where will those workers go for other high-wage, high-skilled jobs? Mr. diCicco said he did not know.
Maybe this assumption that so many people have about an emerging abundance of high-wage, high-skilled jobs itself needs retooling. Rudolph Oswald, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s chief economist, knows of another way to at least deal with the wage part. "Better income distribution," he said. In the 1980's executive salaries soared, while workers' wages actually declined a bit.
Owen F. Bieber, president of the United Automobile Workers, says part of the strategy should entail saving old high-wage, high-skilled jobs with tougher trade relations with foreigners, like the Japanese car makers. "Our good-paying industrial jobs have been leaving faster than you can bring on board new, good, high-paying jobs."
 
A Shorter German Workday
 Lynn Williams, president of the United Steelworkers of America, sees some good jobs emerging in the factories of the future but probably not enough if everyone works 40 hours a week. "One piece of this has to be shorter hours," Mr. Williams said. He said German industry produces half as much steel as American industry but with the same number of workers. "We've been going the other way."
Mr. Reich winces at the thought of shorter hours. He says there should be a full day's work for everyone. New industries like desktop computers and Federal Express keep coming and old ones, like adding machines and the Pony Express, keep going. The new ones often take on more workers than the old.
Maybe so, but the labor leaders wonder if that's still true.
Mr. Bahr and A.T.&T. have been working together training high-wage, highly skilled workers for their factories of the future. But he has not seen any additional jobs. "I hope we live long enough to see the job creation that's supposed to come with it," he said. "I haven't seen it yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 28-year veteran of Caterpillar in East Peoria, Ill., during an unsuccessful strike over wages last year. (Jeffry Scott/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); UTX (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); BOEING CO (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



614 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: Research, Promotion and Profits: Spotlight Is on the Drug Industry

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
While drug companies say they need high prices to support innovative research, health economists say that more and more of the companies' revenues are going to increasingly elaborate promotions. They include gifts for patients who take their drugs, payments to doctors as consultants and large donations to nonprofit hospitals.
And much of the research by drug companies is aimed not at innovation but at developing medicines that have the same function as similar drugs made by rivals, academics who study the drug industry have said in interviews and in testimony before Congress. Officials at the Food and Drug Administration say that of the 90 new drugs approved last year, only about 40 percent were a significant advance over medicines already available.
 
Debating Obscured Figures
 Drug costs have soared in recent years, and President Clinton lambasted the drug industry this month for its hefty prices and profits, contending that it spends $1 billion more on promotion than it spends on research and development. 
 The drug companies say that assertion is unfounded and unfair. They argue that drug development is extraordinarily expensive and risky and that marketing advanced drugs often requires sophisticated, one-on-one sales presentations.
But the industry has presented little hard data about its costs and pricing strategies. As a result, many health economists who admire the industry's record of innovation say they have recently grown skeptical of its claims that research would decline were it not for high prices.
 
'I Don't Believe Them'
 "The industry spends more on promotion than on research and development, so when they say they don't have enough money to develop new drugs, I don't believe them," said Dr. Barry Bleidt, a professor of pharmacy administration at Xavier University of Louisiana. "I consider myself pro-industry, but I'm also pro-consumer."
Dr. Bleidt and others say they are concerned that drug companies are now using their promotional budgets to circumvent restrictions on marketing by Federal regulators and hospitals. For example, companies are not permitted to promote a drug under development, but in some cases doctors who were paid consultants of a company have presented the merits of such drugs at medical meetings.
Although the industry willingly reveals its research and development costs -- projected at $10.3 billion in the United States for 1993 -- drug companies often obscure what is included in the category. And like many publicly traded companies, they consider their marketing and promotional outlays to be privileged information.
In documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, drug companies include promotional costs in categories like "selling, administration, general" or "cost of sales" or just "other."
"They try to keep their operating budgets as veiled as possible," Dr. Stephen Schondelmeyer, professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota, "which implies that there's something they do not want to reveal. When you look at the rosy picture painted in annual reports and then hear them tell Congress they can't afford to do research, there are a lot of discrepancies."
 
Promotion-Research Gap
 He and other health economists say that while many companies have survived on promotion, others, like Merck & Company, have an extraordinary record of innovative basic research.
The Pink Sheet, a newsletter for executives in the pharmaceutical industry published by FDC Reports of Chevy Chase, Md., estimated that in 1991, drug companies spent $10 billion on promotion, exceeding by $1 billion the amount spent on research.
Dr. Schondelmeyer's best guess is that the gap is even greater. Based on a review of annual reports and documents filed with the S.E.C., he estimates that a typical drug company spends about 16 percent of its budget on research and development and as much as 20 percent on promotion.
Most consumer-based industries spend about 2 percent of their budgets on marketing, although some beer and cosmetics companies spend 10 percent or more.
Dr. David A. Kessler, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said he worried that much of the money spent on promotion not only was wasteful but imperiled patient care. "Our concerns about promotion go well beyond the costs it adds to drug prices," he said. "Promotion is designed to create a market for a product, and the market that's created is not necessarily the market that will benefit from the drug. So it's going to result in inappropriate prescribing, and people will be hurt."
Pharmaceutical companies say patients get value for their money. Jeff Warren, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, said, "We think we are unparalleled in terms of research intensity, and that bucks a trend that says that research and development are generally declining in this country." The association estimates that 16.7 percent of revenues are used for research and development. It does not keep records on marketing or promotion.
The industry defends large marketing budgets on the grounds that at least some of the promotion educates doctors and patients. Rick Honey, a spokesman for Pfizer Inc., noted that patent protection generally lapses in 10 to 15 years, "so from a business standpoint we have to market our product aggressively."
 
'Not Like Marketing Soda Pop'
 "More important, this is not like marketing soda pop," he said. "Many of our employees in marketing have advanced degrees and get extensive training in how to use our products."
Drug manufacturers also stress that millions of dollars go into research on drugs that never make it to market.
While pharmacologists acknowledge the enormous expense and great risk in pharmaceutical research, many say the companies owe the public a better accounting of their costs.
Dr. Marcus Reidenberg, editor of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, said: "There's so little hard data that there's no way for an outside observer like me to be able to come to a conclusion about whether high prices are fair high prices or unconscionable high prices. I've tried to get people from drug companies to write commentaries on their costs and how they set drug prices but haven't received any manuscripts."
 
Accounting Criticized
 The accounting standards used by pharmaceutical companies are "incredibly lax," said Dr. Peter Arno, professor of health economics at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. "Their corporate reports are very vague, and they seem to fold advertising into research and development and confuse production costs with research and development."
And not all the research benefits patients. While Bristol-Myers Squibb is supporting some important basic research it has also spent research dollars to prove that its antibiotic Duricef is effective against strep throat, a condition that is readily treated by a host of far cheaper antibiotics.
Calls to Bristol-Myers Squibb for this article were not returned.
Based on a 1990 study at Tufts University, drug companies claim that it costs an average of $231 million to bring a drug to market. But only half of that is budgeted for development; the other half is what economists call opportunity cost -- the return that could have been expected if the company had invested the money instead of tying it up in developing the drug.
In recent years, the F.D.A. and various medical societies have imposed restrictions on how drug companies may promote their products to doctors, strictly limiting the types of gifts. And an increasing number of hospitals are placing restrictions on visits by sales representatives. In response, the industry has developed more subtle promotional techniques directed at patients and hospitals.
"The pharmaceutical industry is incredibly clever, and I say that from a position of both respect and disgust," said Dr. Bleidt, the Xavier University pharmacologist. "There are fewer outright bribes to doctors these days, but they didn't decrease their promotional outlays, of course. They became smarter in how to use them."
Dr. Kessler said that many pharmaceutical companies had tried to get around the restrictions on promotion and advertising by going undercover. Instead of making the rounds to promote their products themselves, they hire prominent doctors as "consultants" who preach the virtues of the medicines at medical conventions, on hospital rounds and in journals.
 
New Rules, New Tactics
 New guidelines drafted by the F.D.A. do not prohibit drug companies from paying lecturers or from sponsoring conferences but require that the ties be revealed and the terms of the contract be publicly available.
The drug companies are also increasingly sponsoring newsletters or supplements to respected journals that appear to be part of the journals. In 1991, the Food and Drug Administration took action against Bristol-Myers for printing a newsletter called Oncology Commentary that was designed to look like a medical journal but only discussed the company's drugs; the name of the company was nowhere on the publication.
Many companies are starting to give incentives to potential patients as well. To promote its new arthritis drug, Relafen, SmithKline Beecham offered patients who visited a doctor free memberships worth about $20 in the Arthritis Foundation, a support and information group for people with the disease.
Although drug company executives acknowledge that some abuses have occurred, they say that pharmaceutical marketing often provides doctors with up-to-date information. For example, when Wyeth-Ayerst began to market the Norplant contraceptive two years ago, its marketing budget covered the cost of teaching doctors to insert the now-popular device.
Perhaps most worrisome to critics of the industry is the way drug company money now permeates hospitals and doctors' offices, where skepticism has long been relied upon to keep overzealous sales pitches in check. Scientists and hospitals say that as research costs have risen and public funds have declined, they have come to rely more heavily on industry grants.
Certain drug companies have become major charitable donors to hospitals, contributing $25,000 here and $100,000 there. Marion Merrell Dow revealed in its annual report that in the name of "strategic philanthropy," it had given an undisclosed amount of money to help establish a cardiovascular research center at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine.
"I'm not against public philanthropy," Dr. Schondelmeyer said. "But I disagree when industry seems to raise capital far beyond what they need to produce their product. As a consumer, I begin to wonder whether the hospital is acting in my best interest when they tell me I need this expensive drug."
 
15-Year Monopoly
 Sam Peltzman, a business professor at the University of Chicago, said lower drug prices were not likely to lead to less promotion -- or to less research either, at least in the short term. He said the drug industry acts as if high prices "are a fountain for research and development, which is just nonsense."
"We give companies the freedom to set price and a monopoly to sell their product for 10 to 15 years, so they are going to try to maximize their profits," he said. "That's in large part why prices have risen."
He said that lowering drug prices would only threaten development of drugs that showed little promise.
"Drug companies undertake these massive searches knowing there will be a big payoff if they hit a winner," he said. "We can have lower drug prices if we accept less of that searching. That's the choice we face."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. David A. Kessler, left, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said he worried that much of the money drug companies spent on promotion was wasteful and imperiled patient care (Marty Katz); Dr. Stephen Schondelmeyer, professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota, said companies try to keep quiet how much of their budget is spent on promotion instead of research. (University of Minnesota) (pg. 26)
 
Table: "Resources of the Drug Industry" lists worldwide performance in 1991 of the 10 largest pharmaceutical companies (Source: Medical Advertising News) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; RESEARCH; FINANCES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); SALES & SELLING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



615 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
DEMOCRATS' UNEASE MAY SLOW CLINTON ON ECONOMIC PLAN

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Signs of dissatisfaction have begun to appear in Democratic ranks on Capitol Hill that could complicate and perhaps delay the passage of President Clinton's ambitious economic program, on which he has staked his political future.
There are important dissidents, especially in the Senate, on both procedural and substantive grounds. A few have publicly expressed their doubts and reservations, but many more have spoken critically at closed meetings on the plan this week. Most of the criticism has come from conservative and moderate lawmakers from the South and the Midwest. 
 Some of the critics think the whole package is out of balance, with too many tax increases, most beginning in 1994, and too few tax cuts. Some fear that it penalizes their states too severely. And some, while applauding Mr. Clinton's approach, think the White House is exposing them unnecessarily to reprisal from disillusioned voters.
 
First, the Palatable
 But White House aides expressed what one called "tenuous confidence" that the plan can be pushed through by late summer, and they have devised a fairly detailed multivote strategy for doing so. Although Congressional leaders have not accepted it yet, they are leaning toward the idea of taking up the program in several stages, passing the more politically palatable spending programs before the hard votes on cutting and taxing.
Today, Mr. Clinton himself continued to try to generate public support and pressure on Congress for his program. Having campaigned in three states on Thursday and Friday, he was in an avuncular mood as he answered children's questions at the White House for a carefully staged national television broadcast.
Initial polling results, and the turnouts for Mr. Clinton's appearances in Missouri, Ohio and New York this week, suggest that he has a reservoir of good will to draw on. But later polls and the skeptical questions asked of him indicate that the support is fragile.
 
A $30 Billion Stimulus
 The Administration is pushing for a vote on unemployment payments before March 6, when the present authorization runs out. That seems fairly uncontroversial. But an extension of the debt ceiling, due in March, could cause serious complications.
Before the Easter recess in early April, the White House would like to gain approval for $30 billion in short-term stimulus to the economy -- new spending on highways, waterways and the like -- so the money will be available for summer, when the weather is right and youth employment can be undertaken on a large scale.
All the rest of the complex plan would be left for a single climactic vote on the budget-reconciliation bill, either in August or after Labor Day. That combined approach is crucial to White House strategists and their supporters on the Hill.
"I think the prospects of getting it enacted are pretty good," Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said in a telephone interview. "If every member wants the package tailored to his or her requirements, there won't be any package, and in the end my guess is that the country's insistence on change will prevail."
But for Democrats like Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma the idea of voting to spend more money months before casting a more popular vote to cut the deficit is impolitic and unwise.
"That could be a crucial mistake," he said. "It would send the wrong message to the country. If the first thing they see us do is pass a stimulus package, it's going to destroy our credibility. A lot of us will be extremely uncomfortable with voting more money for anything before we lock in deficit reduction. I would move the reconciliation vote up to May and vote on everything at once."
 
Spinach or Dessert?
 Senator Boren said he worries that some liberals would never vote for cuts if they were separated from the $30 billion stimulus package. "If you let your 5-year-old eat dessert before he eats his spinach, he'll never eat his spinach, and history indicates that we're dealing with a lot of 5-year-olds here," he said.
As many as half a dozen other Democratic senators voiced similar views at a policy committee meeting on Thursday, participants said, and some have told Thomas F. McLarty 3d, the White House chief of staff, about their concerns. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin are reportedly among those with apprehensions.
In the House, the major committee chairmen wrote to Mr. Clinton shortly after his election to say that if he would provide a strong lead, they would follow. But an aide to one Democratic leader said that among the 100-odd freshman members there were "a lot of sweaty palms about the prospect of voting for more money for anything quite this soon."
Some more experienced members are unhappy as well. Representative Pete Geren, Democrat of Texas, said he and a group of like-minded conservatives were trying to put together a package of further cuts, though he conceded that prospects were slim.
 
Soothing Nervous Lawmakers
 To try to give nervous lawmakers a bit of political cover, the Administration has proposed a vote on a budget resolution offering a general pledge of deficit reduction, before the vote on the stimulus plan. But that would be much less persuasive than a vote on actual reductions.
Some further compromise by the White House may be necessary. Few Republicans are likely to support the President, so with only a 14-vote Senate majority the Democrats can afford to lose only a handful of votes.
Some of the Democratic senators who object to Mr. Clinton's plan want to accommodate Republican critics who argue for many more spending cuts.
Senator Jim Exon, a conservative Nebraska Democrat, told the budget director, Leon E. Panetta, during a hearing on Friday that the proposal has "no chance" of passage without major changes. He added, "Unless we can reach some kind of compromise, we're going to see gridlock on this, and that is the worst of all possible worlds."
 
Farm-State Grumbling
 Other Democrats object to particular aspects of the plan. Farm-state senators are grumbling about deep cuts in agricultural subsidies, and Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said this week that he intends to explore the possibility of substituting a value-added tax, a kind of national sales tax, for the energy tax that is one of the main features of the President's plan.
That effort will begin Wednesday morning, when the committee holds hearings at which a number of economists have been invited to testify in behalf of a value-added tax.
Mr. Johnston met with Mr. Clinton late this week, and White House aides say they are sure the two will eventually work out an agreement. The outlook regarding Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, is less certain, and he could present a major problem, because the deep defense cuts proposed by the President are a key to the program.
On Thursday, Mr. Nunn said his mind was open, but he said the $76 billion reduction in military spending over four years urged by Mr. Clinton "is certainly more than I recommend."
 
'No Quick Fixes'
 In a detailed report issued last September, Senator Nunn and Senator Pete Domenici, a Republican from New Mexico, warned that "there are no quick fixes" and urged that the budget deficit and the country's other ills be attacked in a 10-year program.
"Sam doesn't want to be seen as an impediment to the President's plan," said an official who is close to the Georgian. "Their relations are better than many people think. But there will have to be some accommodation from the White House, because he isn't going to sign off on something he thinks will hurt military morale."
Mr. Clinton has said he is willing to listen to suggestions for changes in his plan, but the White House wants to hold them to an absolute minimum, lest the whole program be picked to pieces.
"There's a big difference, in our minds, between rounding off some rough edges and making basic changes," a Presidential adviser said.
The White House is prepared to fight a suggestion that an overhaul of the health-care system, which will require further tax increases, probably on tobacco and alcohol, be lumped together with the economic package. That is another idea floated by those afraid of voting to raise taxes, who would prefer to do it just once if they must do it at all. The Administration thinks it would delay the showdown so long that all of the current momentum would be lost.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (69%); US LABOR DAY (68%); EASTER SEASON (61%); APPROVALS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



616 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
Cut To the Cuts

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

 BODY:
Bill Clinton's speeches have often sounded like the kind of careful, correct, rather stiff compositions an A student produces when he wants to protect his grade point average. But his speech to Congress on the economy was about as good a speech as I have ever heard him deliver.
It was also dangerous. 
 It was dangerous for the Republicans, who responded to Mr. Clinton's rhetorical magnanimity with the same old same old. "There is plenty of blame to go around," the President said, "in both branches of the Government and both parties. The time has come for the blame to end." And he invited Republicans who didn't like his specifics to come up with specifics of their own, as though they were all in this together.
But as soon as he was finished speaking, the House minority leader, Robert H. Michel, launched into a Republican response that owed more to cliched partisan buckshot than to deficit reduction, incorporating, among other things, the deftly wrought phrases "failed big government schemes of a generation ago" and "biggest propaganda campaign in recent political history."
Mr. Clinton came to the Congress having learned the deficit-reduction lesson of Ross Perot. But the Republicans seem in danger of forgetting the other part of the Perot phenomenon: that people are sick and tired of the constant bickering that passes for government in Washington. Listening to Bob Dole carp about the Democrats is deja vu all over again, neither illuminating nor pretty.
But Mr. Clinton's speech was dangerous for him, too, because it did that most dangerous of things -- it raised expectations, not only for new programs but for hard choices. To meet them, he must make far greater cuts in spending than the ones we have heard about so far.
The superconducting supercollider and the space station should be shelved to save billions. These two high-tech projects are the equivalent of luxury cars; we just can't afford them right now. And the fact that both benefit the Treasury Secretary's home state of Texas makes their survival in lean times look too much like pork.
The military budget must finally address the ridiculous redundancies in the way the four branches operate. The Air Force has fighter wings. The Navy has fighter wings. The Marines have fighter wings. And so on, through overlapping light divisions, legal and medical corps, and other missions, programs and services. The taxpayers should not have to finance interservice rivalries as though the military were the Big Ten Conference.
But the most important thing the President needs to do is to make government make sense. When the issue of the elevator operators who run the automatic elevators for members of Congress comes up, as it has before, it should finally be settled in the only way that makes sense. And that is to assume that members of Congress are competent to push elevator buttons themselves.
Not because this is a big boondoggle -- it's not -- or because it will save lots of money. It won't. But because it is emblematic of how fat and disdainful government has become. Each time a taxpayer is handed from person to person to person in a bloated and befuddled bureaucracy, she apprehends anew a system that treats her money as though it were nothing. Deputy directors. Assistant deputy directors. Assistants to the deputy directors. Public relations officers, the rabbits of government, multiplying uncontrollably. Cut 'em all back. Make the managers manage.
Mr. Clinton asked for sacrifice, and the most remarkable part of these budget discussions is how reasonable the American people have been about chipping in. A scant two years ago, deficit reduction was largely the purview of the econowonk, Paul Tsongas's little hobby. Today most Americans assume it is the key to economic survival.
When Mr. Clinton talked about sharing the sacrifice, he had to know that shoving the six-figure folks into a higher bracket would not be enough. There are small fish, and there are big fish. And then there is the whale, and the whale is government. For support to continue for the President, and for Congress too, the bickering must stop and the blubber must go. Remembering, of course, that the taxpayers know fat when they see it because they've been living lean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SPACE EXPLORATION (68%); SPACECRAFT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); AIR FORCES (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



617 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
SPECTER OF TAJIKISTAN'S TURMOIL 
 Long relegated to a remote corner of the Soviet empire, Tajikistan, engulfed in turmoil, is suddenly looming before its northern neighbors as a gateway to the menacing chaos of the Middle East. 1
 
A CLEAN SLATE FOR SOMALIA
After two years of anarchy, nearly everything about Somalia -- its borders, its demographics, its leaders, its political system -- will have to be rebuilt almost from scratch. 3
 
TWO BOYS CHARGED IN KILLING
Two 10-year-old boys were charged with murder and kidnapping in the death of a 2-year-old whose brutal killing has left the city of Liverpool convulsed with grief and anger. 7
 
GAY SOLDIERS IN ISRAEL
Officially, there is no discrimination against homosexuals in the Israeli armed forces. But the Israeli Army may be something less than a model of tolerance and openness. 14
 
U.S.-Jordan relations still remain cool despite Christopher's visit. 15
 
IN SARAJEVO, DEEPENING GLOOM
In Sarajevo, there seems to be an erosion of spirit even in those who have remained positive in 10 months of deprivation and peril. 16
 
Bosnia offered the U.N. a deal on the delivery of aid. 16
 
The U.S. air-drop plan is a carrot for Bosnia's Government. 17
 
Zaire's longtime ruler visits France for medical treatment. 6
 
Ferry disaster in Haiti underlines the country's everyday needs. 8
 
People in Uruguay resist efforts to modernize their economy. 9
 
Some Cambodians say little has improved despite the U.N. 10
 
Indian drug smugglers play a growing role in heroin production. 11
 
Clinton's plan would end Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. 17
 
National 18-28
 
INKLINGS OF TROUBLE FOR CLINTON
Signs of dissatisfaction have begun to appear in Democratic ranks over the President's economic program, whose enactment could be delayed as a result. 1
 
How the "deficit hawks" on the Clinton team won the day. 20
 
Clinton, on TV, pitched his plan to very young constituents. 24
 
NEW FOCUS ON LONG-TERM CARE
The Administration is considering a new Government-subsidized program that would provide long-term care to people with chronic illnesses or disabilities. 1
 
DRUG COMPANIES UNDER FIRE
Disputing pharmaceutical companies' assertion that they need high prices to support innovative research, health experts contend that much of the research is hardly innovative and that an increasing amount of the companies' money is spent on elaborate promotion. 1
 
PEROT RETURNS TO THE STUMP
Ross Perot is back on the hustings, trying to hold the President's feet to the fires of fiscal responsibility but mainly stoking a few political fires of his own. 22
 
WILL JACKSON HAVE A NEW ROLE?
Benjamin Hooks issued his last report as executive director of the N.A.A.C.P., and there were reports that Jesse Jackson was among the finalists to succeed him. 22
 
AN AWFUL UNEASINESS
In recent years 21 black prisoners have been found hanged in Mississippi jails. Did all kill themselves, or were some of them lynched? 18
 
SAFETY CRIMES AT A COAL MINE
The coal company that owns a western Kentucky mine where 10 workers died in a methane explosion three years ago pleaded guilty to a pattern of safety misconduct there and agreed to pay the Government a fine of $3.75 million. 19
 
Both engineers in a fatal Indiana train collision were dismissed. 28
 
Metro 29-40
 
ANATOMY OF A HEIST
Everyone knew Robert and Susanna Scaretta had big eyes. But their ambition brought them an unwelcome dose of distinction on Feb. 11, when they were arrested and charged with perhaps the largest theft ever in the armored car industry. 1
 
GAY OFFICERS NOW WELCOMED
A buddy team of two New York City policewomen -- one straight, one gay, and both mothers -- is a provocative symbol of the decline of sexual stereotypes that is further diversifying the nation's largest police department. 1
 
CUSHIONING THE COASTLINE
The state of New Jersey hopes it has found a novel way of taming the coastal storms that have inflicted millions of dollars in damage. It is working with a private company to submerge artificial reefs to soften the ocean's assault. 29
 
NEW AIDS THERAPY FUELS HOPES
To have the virus that causes AIDS is to race the clock, clinging to the faintest glimmer of possibility. So news last week of a potentially promising strategy to halt the disease caused a familiar range of conflicting emotions to start up again. 29
 
A confusing and costly campaign to fill a City Council seat. 29
 
Uncertainty over St. Patrick's Day parade disrupts businesses. 31
 
Man charged in death of his infant son. 32
 
In Roosevelt's birthplace, Clinton leaves vivid memories. 34
 
New law imposes stricter standards on mammographers. 34
 
Neediest Cases Fund helps foreigners adapt to the city. 35
 
A classmate of Clinton's is hoping to head the I.N.S. 40
 
Obituaries 38-39
David L. Bazelon, Federal appeals court judge. 38
 
Gerhard Gesell, judge in Watergate and Iran-Contra cases. 39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TAJIKISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAJIKISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); FRANCE (69%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); POLITICS (76%); ARMIES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); MURDER (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); HEROIN (65%); CHRONIC DISEASES (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



618 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: U.S. CONSIDERS AID ON LONG-TERM CARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is considering a new Government-subsidized program to provide long-term care to people with chronic illnesses or disabilities.
Elderly people have long sought Federal help with the cost of long-term care, one of their biggest health expenses. 
 Confidential work papers from the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform show that a major goal of the "new long-term care program" is to shift spending from nursing homes to "community-based services" that provide medical care and other types of assistance to people living in their own homes.
 
Broad Need Seen
 The planning is still in the early stage. No decisions have been made, and the cost of the new program has not been calculated. The elderly are the biggest users of long-term care, but the work papers show that the Administration sees a need for such services among people of all ages.
"Whom do we plan to cover in this initiative?" asks the working group on long-term care, one of two dozen such groups operating under the supervision of Hillary Rodham Clinton. "Disabled elderly. Physically disabled nonelderly. Mentally retarded, developmentally disabled." The "target population" also includes people with AIDS, the working group says.
The memorandum does not mention the four million people with Alzheimer's disease. But the working group is well aware of their needs because a vice president of the Alzheimer's Association, Steven R. McConnell, briefly served on the staff of the task force.
Mrs. Clinton's task force is considering potentially costly new benefits at the same time President Clinton is asking Congress to trim $62 billion from the projected growth of Medicare and Medicaid over the next five years. The working group on long-term care evidently wants to encourage people to buy private insurance to cover the costs of such care, but it also assumes that there will be new Federal costs.
Though the work papers make no estimate of those costs, they show that the task force is considering new taxes to finance the new program, including estate taxes and payroll taxes. Other options include general revenues, private insurance and personal savings, perhaps with new tax breaks for people who establish accounts earmarked for long-term care. The taxes would be above and beyond those proposed by Mr. Clinton this week: $251 billion over five years from higher individual and corporate taxes.
On Friday the Federal budget director, Leon E. Panetta, said the Administration would probably seek higher taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages to help pay for the President's health plan.
Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri, a moderate Republican, said it would be "extremely difficult" for Congress to pass new taxes for health care on top of those sought for deficit reduction.
 
Reining in the Industry
 "How many big tax bills is Congress going to pass in a year?" Mr. Danforth asked. "How much is the country going to swallow in a year?"
Mr. Clinton has said he will submit his health plan to Congress by May 1. Lawmakers from both parties say the nation must control health costs before it can guarantee access to care for 35 million people without insurance, as Mr. Clinton has promised to do.
The work papers of the task force confirm that the Administration is considering imposing "interim cost controls" on the health-care industry, which accounts for one-seventh of the nation's economy, during the transition to a new health system.
The documents show that the task force is considering these options: a "freeze on health-care prices," controls on drug prices and Federal limits on doctors' fees, hospital charges and private health insurance premiums. Again, no decisions have been made.
In the Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton said, "No Americans should have to impoverish themselves to qualify for long-term health care," and he promised to expand long-term care.
 
Becoming Poor to Get Help
 As a model for the nation, Mr. Clinton cited an Arkansas program known as Elder Choices. This program, he said, "gives the elderly the right to take money previously available only for nursing home care and spend it instead on home health care, personal care, transportation to senior centers, nurses' services or attendance at an adult day care center."
The cost of nursing home care is the biggest out-of-pocket health expense for the elderly. Groups like the American Association of Retired Persons have been lobbying for years to get more Government aid for such care.
Medicaid, the Federal-state program for low-income people, covers 65 percent of the nation's 1.5 million nursing home residents. Many of these people were once in middle-income families, but to qualify for Medicaid they impoverished themselves, either by spending all their money for a nursing home or by giving away their assets.
More than 2.4 million people have bought insurance against the high cost of nursing home care, which averages more than $30,000 a year per person.
A study this month by Families U.S.A., a research and advocacy group, said private long-term care insurance was unaffordable for most middle-aged and elderly people. Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of the group, said, "The only way to make long-term care affordable is a public system where everybody pays and everybody is protected."
The Health Insurance Association of America asserts that long-term care policies are affordable. In 1991, it says, annual premiums on a basic policy averaged $1,100 for a person 65 years old. Premiums were $2,500 a year for a person of that age seeking extra protection to preserve the benefits of the policy against inflation.
The Clinton panel studying long-term care is headed by Robyn I. Stone, a senior policy analyst at Project Hope, an international health foundation. The panel includes Joshua M. Wiener, an economist at the Brookings Institution. In a 1988 book, Mr. Wiener and Alice M. Rivlin, now deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, recommended expanding Medicare to cover much more of the cost of long-term care.
But in his budget this week, Mr. Clinton proposed eliminating a part of the Medicaid law that guarantees payment for "personal care services" to certain disabled people living at home. He said the change would save $5.8 billion over five years.
Elma L. Holder, director of the National Citizens' Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, a consumer group, said this proposal was "quite inconsistent with Clinton's campaign statements emphasizing his support for home and community-based care."
 
The Old Question: Who Pays?
 While Medicaid is widely seen as a welfare program, Medicare is considered a form of social insurance because it is financed mainly through premiums and payroll taxes and is available to elderly and disabled people regardless of their income.
The Administration has not decided who should pay for the new program. The working group on long-term care has framed the question this way: "Should the increase in taxes be borne by the biggest users of the services (i.e., the elderly), or should they be borne by the general population?"
Congress expanded Medicare to cover the cost of catastrophic illness in 1988. But after elderly people realized they would pay the bill, through higher taxes and premiums, they forced Congress to repeal the catastrophic insurance program a year later.
The working group is considering four ways to cover long-term care. Building on Medicare, the Federal Government could establish a full-scale social insurance program for people of all ages. Alternatively, it could make a flat payment to a "case manager" who agrees to provide a wide range of social and health services intended to keep people out of hospitals and nursing homes.
The Government could expand Medicaid to cover more people. Or it could negotiate a deal with the states, requiring them to cover the full cost of long-term care for low-income people, in exchange for a Federal commitment to pick of the cost of hospital care and doctors' services.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Medicaid and Nursing Care" shows breakdown of Medicaid expenses and percentage used to pay for nursing home patients. (Source: Department of Health and Human Services) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (54%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (54%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FEDERAL AID (US); NURSING HOMES; HANDICAPPED LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGING (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TAX LAW (86%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); MENTAL RETARDATION (78%); ESTATE TAX (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); TAX RELIEF (65%); INCOME TAX (65%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



619 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Economic Plan Grew Slowly Out of Marathon of Debate

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
At the first meeting of Bill Clinton's economic team, on Dec. 30, the members already knew what the public suspected: the new President would abandon one of his earliest campaign pledges. There would be no tax cut for the middle class. In fact, taxes would probably rise on the very people Mr. Clinton had vowed to protect.
The discussions went on for weeks before Mr. Clinton put his ideas to Congress last Wednesday. But at that first meeting, in the Washington offices of Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting firm, Mr. Clinton's advisers were already aware of statistics that the outgoing Bush White House was about to make public, showing that the Federal deficit was going to rise $50 billion a year more than they had expected. The information crystallized Mr. Clinton's budget predicament. 
 The new figures handed a powerful weapon to a group of advisers who came to be known as "the deficit hawks" and, behind their backs, as the "pain-is-good" crowd because of their belief that spending cuts or higher taxes were needed to bring the Federal deficit under control. The promised middle-class tax cut, one adviser said, would just be allowed to "float away" and higher energy taxes would be substituted for it.
It also immediately became conceivable that higher taxes on more affluent Social Security recipients would be part of the the President's program. Neither idea would be popular or easily sold.
 
Straight Out of Vaudeville
 The dynamics of these decisions, rooted in politics, personality and economics, would color the entire process as Mr. Clinton desperately searched for a balance that would work.
To meet his goal of a reduction in the Federal deficit and a spur to the economy in the face of the larger deficit projection, Mr. Clinton needed big new taxes and deep cuts in spending. His advisers were telling him he needed to be bold. And to make his plan workable politically, he would have to mete out the taxes and spending reductions with a diamond cutter's precision.
George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said this week that the two-month enterprise was a balancing act that reminded him of the juggler who could keep china plates spinning on 10-foot poles.
"In the end, he had to have the right balance on job creation, economic stimulus, deficit reduction, balance on regions, population groups and balance between credibility and the chances for passage," Mr. Stephanopoulos said.
Which plates crashed to the ground?
"They're still spinning," he replied.
 
Managing the Minute
 In the early stages, Mr. Clinton realized that the budget plan he intended to define his young Presidency would do two things that any politician abhors: break promises and raise taxes.
In interviews, several of the President's senior aides, who spent dozens of hours in meetings that began at the Governor's Mansion in Little Rock, Ark., and continued at the White House, gave accounts of a process run by a President whose mastery of the wide range of topics under discussion was greater than that of anyone else at the table. Mr. Clinton took a micromanager's pride in hammering out the most minute details.
"There's no question that the President knew this stuff better across the board than anyone else at the table," said Roger C. Altman, the Deputy Treasury Secretary. "Others may have known more about particular aspects, but no one else understood so much about so many things."
 
Sides of Battle
 The result of the weeks of deliberations, grandiosely titled "A Vision of Change for America," included more tax increases than spending reductions, a far cry from Mr. Clinton's initial target of making $2 in spending cuts for every $1 raised in higher taxes.
The deficit hawks of Mr. Clinton's economic policy group were Leon E. Panetta, the budget director; his deputy, Alice M. Rivlin, and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen.
On the side of greater attention to stimulating the economy and creating jobs were Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich; Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and the bulk of Mr. Clinton's politically attuned communications staff.
The hard-liners won their biggest victory on the day that the Clinton camp received the official deficit news.
Mr. Bentsen, who sat at Mr. Clinton's right hand in the meetings, agreed that strong action was required. Although the former Texas Senator had not been one of his more enthusiastic supporters in the Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton held Mr. Bentsen in high regard. Typically, when the discussion of a complicated issue reached the decision point, Mr. Clinton would turn to him and say, "Lloyd, what would you do?"
 
Challenging a Deduction
 This is what happened, for instance, on the question of whether tax deductions should be eliminated for mortgage interest payments that total more than a certain amount, perhaps $20,000 a year.
Mr. Bentsen, who was seen as a patron of the real estate industry, said it would be unfair to limit the deductions on existing mortgages, since the loans had been taken out with the understanding that the interest payments would be deductible.
Limiting the deduction on new mortgages, Mr. Bentsen argued, would be fair but would not raise much new revenue in the next few years. In sum, it was not worth the political price of taking on the real estate industry, which would certainly oppose it.
Mr. Clinton agreed, and the proposal was dropped.
 
Academics to Reality
 Until this point, it had still been an economic exercise for Mr. Clinton. And it remained so until Jan. 20, when he took the oath of office and the hard part started behind closed doors at the White House.
Trade-offs became a regular feature of these meetings, at which participants snacked on cookies, fruit and diet sodas.
Mr. Bentsen decided to support an energy tax based on the amount of heat that various fuels generate rather than one he personally favored based on the price of fuels. He knew from his experience in the Senate that this "B.T.U. tax" would be easier to pass.
Some special pains were also taken on behalf of particularly valuable members of Congress.
For example, the policy makers had Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, in mind when they decided to include a measure that would allow donors to museums and other charitable organizations to take a tax deduction for the full market value of their gifts. Under current law, donors of, say, a painting, can deduct only what they paid for the art.
Changing the law to please Mr. Moynihan, who would see the many museums in New York City benefit, seemed worth the effort, as the Senator is chairman of the Finance Committee. Almost the entire economic package must pass through Mr. Moynihan's committee, and since the tax break for charitable contributions would cost only about $70 million a year in lost revenue, it seemed a small price to pay.
Similarly, the economic team quickly discarded a proposal for an energy tax based on the carbon content of various forms of fuel. That would have placed coal producers at a serious disadvantage, and the coal industry is of vital importance to Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the Appropriations Committee.
 
Single-Minded Panetta
 Mr. Clinton consistently asked his advisers to prove their assumptions by producing charts that demonstrated how people at different income levels would be affected by each proposal. Because of that, Mr. Clinton decided relatively late in the process to increase the tax break for families whose earnings fall below the Federal poverty line.
One of the most zealous budget-cutters in the room was Mr. Panetta, a gentle, affable man who proved so single-minded about reducing the deficit that he was occasionally unaware that the others around the table were having a laugh at his expense.
At one point, Mr. Panetta suggested having the Coast Guard charge for rescuing boaters in distress. Someone made a crack about asking a drowning man whether he wanted to charge his rescue to Visa or MasterCard. Mr. Clinton and the others roared. Mr. Panetta kept talking, oblivious to the laughter.
The process was usually not so lighthearted. A week to the day after the inauguration, Mr. Clinton had Democratic Senate leaders to the White House. At the meeting, Mr. Panetta declared that he favored a one-year freeze in cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security benefits. Word leaked out.
Mr. Clinton apparently never liked the idea. But his advisers were worried about saying that the President had ruled anything out, fearful that it would show what had been ruled in. Furthermore, leaving the freeze on the table gave political cover to the proposal that was eventually adopted, increasing the amount of Social Security benefits on which the more affluent retirees must pay income tax.
But Mr. Clinton's habit of building escape hatches into his public comments and his policy quickly became a liability. By refusing to disavow any intention to freeze cost-of-living adjustments to Social Security, the President left the impression that cutting benefits for the elderly was at the top of his priority list.
 
The 'Grand Plan'
 In the last weeks before the big economic speech on Wednesday, the White House political machine moved into high gear. "You can have a grand plan," one White House official said, "but if it doesn't fly, it's not a grand plan. You have to find common ground."
The political staff, led by Paul Begala, outlined the route of attack. Play down taxes, play up spending cuts and define all new spending as "investment" in the future.
Mr. Clinton insisted to reporters that he was spending "95 percent" of his time working on the economy. But in doing this, he ignored other warning signs that led to some serious political snags. Two candidates for Attorney General fell by the wayside, and the President became ensnared in what he saw as a premature flap over whether to allow homosexuals in the military.
But the economic plan moved apace. Treasury and budget officials often went home at 5 A.M. after running numbers through the computers all night. The brainstorming sessions -- to which the President was habitually late -- became a daily marathon.
On the night before the President addressed a joint session of Congress, he summoned Cabinet members, their deputies and top aides to the White House for a series of political and budget briefings.
Mr. Bentsen later commented that the Clinton people were "the meeting est group I've ever seen."
On the night of the speech, Mr. Clinton was still working on his text less than an hour before he was to give it. He had rejected drafts that sounded too traditional, too much like old-fashioned Democratic politics. He specifically directed the writers who were helping him with the speech to omit any bashing of big business and to emphasize self-reliance and training programs.
Cabinet members who watched the speech from a row in the House chamber looked exhausted. Afterward, Labor Secretary Reich, who has known and advised Mr. Clinton for years, acknowledged the intensity of the budget-making experience.
"During the past couple of months," he said "I have seen more of my friend Bill Clinton than I have ever before in my entire life."

GRAPHIC: Chronology: "FROM A PROMISE TO A PLAN"
 
DEC. 10, 1992: President-elect Bill Clinton, elected on a promise of fundamental economic change, announces the appointment of his economic team.
DEC. 14-15: In Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Clinton holds an economic conference of economists, business executives and labor leaders. The conference ends with a consensus on the need to spur growth in the short term and reduce the deficit over the long haul, but with contradictory advice on how to achieve these goals.
DEC. 30: Mr. Clinton's economic planners in Washington tell his transition staff in Little Rock of the new, higher deficit estimates that the Bush Administration is expected to release the next week.
JAN. 7, 1993: Mr. Clinton spends six hours with his senior economic advisers going over the new deficit estimates, concluding that they may require him to back off campaign pledges to cut the Federal budget deficit in half in four years and avoid raising taxes on the middle class.
JAN. 20: Mr. Clinton becomes the 42d President of the United States. In the afternoon, the economic team meets in the office of Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen.
JAN. 28: Mr. Clinton meets with Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Hours after the meeting, Mr. Greenspan tells the Senate Budget Committee that the Administration's goals for deficit reduction are about right. The day before, Mr. Greenspan told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress he agreed with the "general thrust" of Mr. Clinton's policies to speed growth with a modest short-term stimulus.
JAN. 30-31: Mr. Clinton and his advisers work on the economic plan at Camp David.
FEB. 1: Mr. Clinton discusses his proposals with the National Governors' Association and Democratic Congressional leaders.
FEB. 4: Mr. Clinton meets with the three dozen Democrats who round up votes in the House and urges support of his stimulus package.
FEB. 13: Mr. Clinton fine-tunes the economic plan with his economic team and Democratic House members. In a radio address he seeks to assure middle-class Americans that they will be treated fairly in the plan.
FEB. 15: In his first televised address from the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton appeals to the American people to support the tax increases and spending cuts he says are needed to cut the deficit and put the nation on the path to greater prosperity.
FEB. 17: In an address to a joint session of Congress, Mr. Clinton unveils his economic plan. It includes a short-term stimulus plan, new spending in areas like education and public works and a four-year blueprint for reducing the deficit through a mixture of tax increases and spending cuts.
; Photos: Harold A. Poling, left, of the Ford Motor Company, and Lacene Orvis, seated, of the Caulkins Indiantown Citrus Company in Florida, speaking with Robert E. Rubin, second from right, and Lloyd Bentsen, then the designates for head of the Economic Security Council and Treasury Secretary, at the opening of President Clinton's economic conference on Dec. 14 in Little Rock, Ark. (Associated Press); Vice President Al Gore and Speaker Thomas S. Foley cheering during President Clinton's address to Congress last Wednesday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (71%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (71%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



620 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Talks to Children, But Addresses Everybody

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Pursuing his public relations campaign to pressure Congress to support his economic agenda, President Clinton appeared on television today to answer questions from 40 polite and admiring children.
The two-hour ABC News special, "President Clinton Answering Children's Questions," was another small triumph in the White House's continuing effort to advertise the President and his plans. 
 Stylistically a cross between "Donahue" and "Mr. Rogers's Neighborhood," the program gave the President a chance to sell his plans and policies directly to children and parents and without challenge.
The children's questions, which were rehearsed in the White House by ABC News Friday night, included the cute ("Is Chelsea single?"), the soft ("Why did you want to become President?") and the politically pointed ("As a country we are very biased towards homosexuals; what are you going to do to help America accept them?").
 
Warm and Fuzzy
 With the ABC News anchor Peter Jennings guiding him through the live broadcast from the East Room, Mr. Clinton was shown to great advantage, engaging each child in brief conversations that were masterworks of Mr. Clinton's talent for political dialogue of the warm and fuzzy genre.
Several especially effective exchanges were preceded by biographical films of the children involved. Many of the children asking the questions had been affected by the issues they raised. A child with AIDS asked Mr. Clinton what he would do to restore money for AIDS research, money that the child said was cut by President George Bush (Mr. Bush actually increased the financing). A boy from Louisiana whose brother had died of a rare cancer asked what Mr. Clinton would do to end pollution and thus reduce the risk of environmentally caused cancers. A girl from Washington who had lived in a shelter for the homeless asked Mr. Clinton to help find houses for people without them.
The President addressed each question by presenting his policies and plans on the issues as the appropriate response to the suffering displayed before him.
"We'll do it for your brother," Mr. Clinton said, in assuring the boy from Louisiana that he would work to increase antipollution efforts. He urged the child with AIDS to "hang in there" until increased financing for AIDS research led to a cure. To the girl from Washington, he said, "I don't think Americans want children like you living in a homeless shelter."
 
'A Good Forum'
 ABC News, which conceived and produced the program as part of its series of Saturday morning specials for children, tried to sell the idea for it to both the Bush and Clinton organizations during the 1992 Presidential campaign, Mr. Jennings said in a telephone interview after the program.
"They both saw that this was a good forum for them in political terms," Mr. Jennings said. ABC renewed the idea after the election and found Mr. Clinton's advisers receptive. "Having seen the President with the kids today," he said, he thought they were "pretty satisfied."
ABC News chose the children to "show a cross section of America" and to illustrate such specific issues as the environment and homelessness, said an ABC News spokesman, Arnot Walker.
Mr. Walker said the network knew in advance the general nature of the questions that would be asked of Mr. Clinton but did not rehearse the questioners. He said the children used during a technical rehearsal at the White House on Friday night were different from those shown on the program.
 
One Child Invited Back
 But a ABC News employee, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the child who got the program's biggest laugh by asking Mr. Clinton if his daughter, Chelsea, were single, had first asked that question as a member of the rehearsal audience and had been invited to return and ask it on the air. (Chelsea herself had joined her father before the camera when the question was asked.)
Jeff Eller, a deputy in the White House communications office, said ABC News had provided the President's staff with biographical sketches of the children chosen. He added that George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, and Frank Greer, a Washington political consultant, had both been involved in the program. White House officials, Mr. Eller said, were aware of the general nature of the questions the children intended to ask. But he said neither Mr. Clinton nor White House officials knew precisely what the questions would be.
The program made the President exclusively available to a commercial television network for a program paid for by the Nynex Corporation, for which tax-deductible public service announcements were shown during commercial breaks.
Both Mr. Jennings and Mr. Eller defended the program. Mr. Eller said: "I think that this gave the American people a longer, in-depth view of Bill Clinton, and how he thinks, and we're able to see him with children addressing the specific concerns that they have. The concerns of children are no less important than anyone else's."
Mr. Eller's defense suggested an important way in which the program served Mr. Clinton. By putting goals of the Clinton Administration in the mouths of children, it was suggested that what Mr. Clinton wants to do is what America's children want, too. That could arguably equate a stand against the President with stand against the nation's sons and daughters.
 
Little Hint of Dispute
 While no one at either the White House or ABC suggested that this was the intent of the program, that seemed to be one effect. All the children who questioned the President on policy were supportive and approving. Only once was there even a hint that the views of children might not be any more monolithic than those of adults. That moment came when Mr. Jennings gave Mr. Clinton a joking warning as one boy readied himself to speak. "You'll have to work a little bit on Omar here, because he tells me he is a Republican," the newscaster said. But Omar's question turned out to be a politically safe one.
Mr. Clinton seemed to enjoy himself most answering questions about how he and his family found the experience of living in the White House. With Chelsea and the family cat, Socks, briefly joining him in rare public appearances, he fielded questions about domestic life of interest to children.
The President said he did indeed help his daughter with her homework, particularly with algebra. And he doubtless won the hearts of his audience when he told them that he did not punish his daughter often.
"Chelsea is a pretty good girl," he said. "The No. 1 thing we have to do is make her go to bed early. She has a fault that her father has: she likes to say up late at night."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton took questions yesterday from children on a television special. During a break, one child asked the President why he had bags under his eyes. He told the child it was sometimes because he was tired and sometimes because of allergies. At right was Peter Jennings of ABC. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC) AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (93%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TELEVISION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); CANCER (69%); CARCINOGENS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); DEATHS (63%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (62%); 

PERSON: KELLY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JENNINGS, PETER BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



621 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Most Cambodians See Nothing of Aid

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHNAP, Cambodia, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Tith Poth and her neighbors line up each morning with their dented aluminum pails and white plastic jugs in hopes of coaxing a little water from the single functioning well in Chnap.
"Nothing has changed," said Mrs. Tith Poth, a 65-year-old widow, grinning at the thought that life had somehow grown easier in Chnap since the arrival in Cambodia of thousands of United Nations peacekeepers. "Sometimes the white United Nations cars drive by, but the people inside never get out." 
 More than 50 families in this small, bleak village in central Cambodia depend on the well for their water for drinking and bathing. There is a village dispensary, but it lacks the most basic medicines and equipment. The flimsy, wood-frame houses in Chnap are roofed with palm leaves left cracked and torn by the sun. "When the rainy season comes, we just get wet," Mrs. Tith Poth said.
The deprivation here is not unusual. The United Nations-sponsored peace settlement in Cambodia was meant both to end a long civil war and to begin the reconstruction of one of the world's poorest nations. But more than a year after the United Nations sent a 22,000-member peacekeeping force to Cambodia -- and eight months after the architects of the peace plan pledged $800 million in reconstruction aid -- the lives of millions of Cambodians are no better.
 
Fighting Continues
 For many of the seven million people of Cambodia, the war is not over, with Government soldiers and rebels in large stretches of the countryside violating the cease-fire as if it never existed.
Equally worrisome to some United Nations officials is that with only months to go before the scheduled departure of most of the peacekeeping force, the reconstruction of Cambodia has barely begun.
Most of the peacekeepers are expected to leave Cambodia within weeks of national elections, now scheduled for late May.
Roger Lawrence, rehabilitation director for the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia, said he was concerned that donor nations had held back hundreds of millions of dollars in promised reconstruction aid out of a fear that the peace process will collapse.
"We are in a vicious circle here in which the peace process founders in part because the economic component isn't working -- and the economic part is not working because the peace process is perceived as foundering," he said. "It's disturbing. Whole regions of Cambodia haven't seen any tangible evidence of reconstruction."
 
Pledges Mostly Undisbursed
 The rehabilitation aid was meant to support everything from road and bridge repair to well-digging and the purchase of school books and essential medicines. But of the $800 million pledged by donor nations at a conference in Tokyo in June, only about $95 million has been disbursed.
According to figures compiled by the United Nations, the United States, the largest donor at the Tokyo conference, has come up with only $14 million of the $145 million it pledged. Japan, the second-largest donor, has turned over only about $9 million of the $135 million it promised.
Lee Twentyman, the Cambodia representative of the United States Agency for International Development, questioned the significance of the United Nations figures. He said that while much of the promised American aid money has not yet been spent, Washington had legally committed tens of millions of dollars that now can be drawn on by contractors working in Cambodia for the United States.
"I'm disbursing money at a rate faster than I've ever done before anywhere," Mr. Twentyman said. "I do agree that more should be done, but I think there were false expectations on what physically could be done here in a postwar environment in a short period of time."
A Japanese Embassy spokesman in Phnom Penh said that his Government was moving as quickly as it could in disbursing aid money in Cambodia, but that there was no way around the time-consuming scrutiny required by the Japanese Foreign Ministry for all foreign aid projects. "We have very complicated procedures," he said.
 
Rural Areas Neglected
 The nine Japanese rehabilitation projects in Cambodia demonstrate what many relief officials believe is another failing in the United Nations-sponsored reconstruction plan for the country. Five of the projects are intended to benefit the residents of Phnom Penh, Cambodia's booming capital, even though nearly 90 percent of Cambodia's population lives in rural areas.
Even as Phnom Penh prospers from foreign investment and aid, rural villages like Chnap, which is only about 35 miles southwest of the capital, are going without.
"It's shortsighted to throw billions of dollars into a peacekeeping operation and then not spend even a little money in a place like this," said a Western relief worker in Kompong Speu province, where Chnap is situated. "Maybe 5 percent of the people in the province have safe water. It would take so little money to dig some wells and solve that problem."
A few steps from the United Nations compound in Kompong Speu province is a stagnant pond that serves as a community bathtub for Cambodians -- and their farm animals -- living nearby.
 
Cursed by Poor Soil
 Chnap, like much of the province, is cursed by poor soil. Only a few sickly trees are left standing in the parched rust-red earth. The rest were hacked down long ago by rice farmers who, desperate during bad harvests, sold the trees as firewood.
The only food that villagers say they can depend on is rice, and it is almost all they eat. "It's only rice for us, every meal, every day," Rek Som said as she stirred the rice that bubbled in a charred aluminum pot. Since her husband died of malaria three years, Mrs. Rek Som, 33, said, rice "is the only food we can afford."
Her 5-year-old son, who was so small and frail that in any developed country he would pass for barely 3, sat patiently on the dirt floor, waiting for his noon meal.
"When we heard the United Nations would come to Cambodia, we were all happy in the village because we hoped it would mean peace for the country and our families," Mrs. Rek Som said. "But the peace will not matter to me if there is not enough food for my son."

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 50 families in Chnap, Cambodia, depend on one small well to provide water for drinking and bathing. Aid for reconstruction is almost nonexistent in rural areas, and despite a peace agreement after years of civil war, the resolution of the country's political future has been delayed repeatedly. (Philip Shenon/The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Map of Cambodia, indicating Chnap.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (65%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (65%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; RURAL AREAS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); ELECTIONS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; LAWRENCE, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



622 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Soft Hands, a Big Smile and a Piercing Gaze;
A President's Personal Touches Become the Stuff of Memories in Hyde Park

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HYDE PARK, N.Y., Feb. 20

 BODY:
For Donna Stein, it all came down to the touch of Bill Clinton's hands.
"His hands were so soft," she recalled Friday evening, a few hours after she and her husband, Sheldon, elbowed their way to the front of the room to congratulate the President after his economic address at the Haviland Middle School here. 
 "As we were shaking hands, I put my left hand on top of his right hand," said Mrs. Stein, 33, a nurse and graduate student in psychology. "Then he put his other hand under mine."
 
Life Returns to Normal
 After a week in which this town of 21,230 was overrun by dozens of law enforcement officials and members of the Presidential advance team, life in Hyde Park seemed to approach its normal cadence today. For the first time since Tuesday, there were rooms available at the Super 8 Motel, the White House having vacated the 20 or so rooms that it had fashioned into a command post.
Hyde Park's main street, Route 9, was also clear today, the unusual gridlock of the day before just an unpleasant memory. While New York Telephone technicians pulled out the 200 extra phone lines that had been connected at the Middle School at the behest of White House officials and reporters, maintenance workers began to reattach the 100 chairs that had been torn from the auditorium floor so that the President could have room to maneuver.
President Clinton spent only a couple of hours in Hyde Park on Friday afternoon, but it was clear -- based on the animated conversations at the Town n' Country Diner this morning -- that he shook an inordinate number of hands while he was here.
 
Working the House
 He worked the auditorium, where about 500 invited guests heard his speech. Then he wended his way across the hall, to the school's gymnasium, where another 400 people had watched the address on a single television, the other monitors having broken down.
Mike Moshier, a commercial representative for Central Hudson Gas and Electric, had a front-row seat for the President's address, thanks to his brother, who has a friend in the Secret Service. Mr. Moshier watched as Mr. Clinton spent about 20 minutes shaking hands, beginning with the teachers and students assembled behind the lectern and then stepping down to meet -- and chat with -- the crowd of business leaders, elected officials, children and other townspeople.
"He shook my hand, along with my brother Pat, his wife, Sue, and my three nieces, Jennifer, Katie and Genna," said Mr. Moshier, who voted for President Bush last November but has decided, for the time being, to support President Clinton's efforts.
 
From a Distance
 "I got my vice-president from my company a seat down in the front row," added Mr. Moshier, 44, a life-long resident of this Hudson River town. "The President shook his hand too."
Others glimpsed the President from a distance.
Jerry Govoni, 43, and his wife, Linda, 41, described over coffee and juice how they had driven to Hyde Park from Marlborough, Conn., yesterday, unaware that the President would be in town. They had come here with their daughter, Heather, 7, and son, Lyle, 4, to tour the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library. Then traffic inexplicably came to a standstill on Route 9, and before they knew it the President was whisking by in his motorcade.
"He was smiling," Mrs. Govoni said. "A big smile."
President Clinton came to the town where Franklin Roosevelt was born and is buried to invoke the Roosevelt legacy and to pay his respects. Aleta Knight, 37, the supervisory park ranger at the Roosevelt home, was assigned to stand at President Roosevelt's grave Friday as Mr. Clinton and Mr. Roosevelt's grandson, James, each laid down a red rose.
 
Playing With the Elevator
 "He had a very piercing gaze," said Ms. Knight, who works for the National Park Service. "When he looked at you, you turned beet red."
Later, she accompanied the President inside the Roosevelt home, where, she said, he playfully took hold of the ropes that control the hand-operated elevator that they were riding in.
"He was having a blast," she recalled. "He said, 'Oh, this is fun!' "
There was also a memorable moment in the Roosevelt Library, which is overseen by the National Archives and which houses President Roosevelt's papers and mementos.
 
Special Register
 After welcoming the President into his office, Verne Newton, the library director, asked him to sign the 52-year-old register of guests who had visited Mr. Roosevelt's study here. Mr. Clinton dutifully complied, turning, as directed, to a special page where the names Winston Churchill, Lyndon Johnson and Nelson Rockefeller are scrawled.
But after everyone else left, the woman who had applied the President's make-up for a television interview quietly signed her name too -- on the same, historic page.
"A hundred years from now," Mr. Newton said, "historians will be trying to figure out, 'Who was Simone Levy?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: New York Telephone technicians removing the 200 extra phone lines yesterday that had been installed at the Haviland Middle School in Hyde Park at the request of White House officials and reporters.; Verne Newton, director of the Roosevelt Library, holding the 52-year-old register of guests that President Clinton signed during his visit.; "His hands were so soft," recalled Donna Stein, as she held the hand that shook President Clinton's. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (63%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL HUDSON GAS & ELECTRIC CORP (63%); SUPER 8 WORLDWIDE INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HYDE PARK (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (54%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



623 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Perot Is Back Running Hard; The Question Is, 'For What?'

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Feb. 20

 BODY:
Ross Perot is back on the hustings, trying to hold President Clinton's feet to the fires of fiscal responsibility but mainly stoking a few political fires of his own.
He will not say whether he plans another Presidential run in 1996, after his strong showing last year, when he captured 19 percent of the vote. 
 But he is spending this weekend hop-scotching the length of Florida, from cheer-filled rally to cheer-filled rally, and the impression left by the billionaire businessman is that he is running hard after something.
It is not clear whether that something is the Presidency or more national influence or some greater measure of ego satisfaction. But the man is on the move, urging his supporters to organize, strutting the stage before them, hand on hip, jug-eared head cocked, homespun aphorisms pouring forth in that twangy Texas accent.
 
Instant Understanding
 "Are we gonna talk about it or are we gonna do it?" he asked an overflow audience of 3,000 that jammed into a Shriners' auditorium here this morning, amid red, white and blue balloons and to the sound of patriotic music.
At that early point in his speech, he had never defined "it." But his audience, mainly Perot partisans, understood instantly and answered with a standing cheer.
"You own this country." Mr. Perot went on, reaching back, as he does throughout all his post-election speeches, for the lines and subject matter that played so well before the election. "You own this country and those people up there in Washington work for you and don't you ever let 'em forget it."
More cheers.
"He's right on the mark," said Betty Nordman, a retired Jacksonville teacher who voted for President George Bush last fall and is now looking for a political alternative for 1996.
"Bill Clinton has already broken his promise on taxes," she said. "From here on out, I'm keeping my eye on Ross Perot."
 
Dispensing Perot Medicine
 A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Perot made a similar speech swing through Maine, with similar results. Next he plans to tour his home state of Texas. And late in March he plans to take to national television again, much as he did during the fall campaign, with a Perot-financed special on what ails America and what medicine is needed.
And he continues to call on voters who supported him last fall to close ranks anew to build a nationwide grass-roots organization, "United We Stand, America." Its goal, he says, will be to reform government "from the White House to the tiniest local school board."
He has sent out more than two million registration forms and has hired half a dozen or more professional organizers to oversee the project. His aides refuse to disclose how many people have signed up thus far, at a cost of $15 for an annual membership.
"But if this thing doesn't work," Mr. Perot promises, "I'll send your money back."
Now and again on his stops he taunts Mr. Clinton a bit, urging him to provide more details about his economic plan and warning him about the dangers of the national deficit.
"I don't really know what to say about the new Clinton economic plan," he told 2,500 people who packed the Pensacola fairground auditorium to overflowing Thursday night. "The President only laid out the outlines. He needs to give up the details now. And then begins the hard part."
Mostly, however, Mr. Perot talks up his new organization and taunts Congress.
"Our legislators are arrogant," he says. "We've got to organize and reach out and tap them on the shoulder and let them know we're watching. Our numbers are our strength. Together we can slam-dunk it."
Then, much as he did in the fall campaign, he calls for a reduction in the national deficit, a balanced budget, a line-item veto and strict controls on lobbyists.
 
Hammering the Lobbyists
 The loudest cheers usually come when he hammers the lobbyists, calling them "a real cancer on society."
"I can tell you folks this much about Bill Clinton's economic plan," he said in Pensacola. "Over the next few months as the lobbyists try to work it to suit them, they're going to make more money that ever in the history of this country. In 1960, there were 365 of them in Washington. Today there are more than 40,000. That's what we're up against."
While Mr. Perot's appearances have most of the hallmarks of campaign rallies, there are several important elements missing. He seldom moves out into the crowds to shake hands, seldom takes any questions from the press and, except for the membership dues for his new organization, totally skirts the pandering of fund-raising, as only a man of his wealth could afford to do.
"He's just feeling his way along on all of this," said Ed Campbell, one of Mr. Perot's professional organizers. "He wants to stay out in the open, get United We Stand, America up and running and then see what happens."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); MUSIC (51%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



624 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Project to Use Reefs to Halt Beach Erosion

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

 BODY:
The State of New Jersey hopes it has found a novel way of taming the coastal storms that have inflicted hundreds of millions of dollars in property damage along its coastline. It is working with a private company to submerge a series of artificial reefs to soften the ocean's assault on Jersey shores.
A reef that cushioned the blow of waves on vulnerable beaches and kept sand from washing away would be a bonanza, not only for its developer but also for taxpayers, who pick up the growing costs of replenishing vulnerable beaches with sand that can vanish with the next major storm. 
 "This new technology is largely untested but if it proves itself it could provide an answer to our erosion problems," said Anthony Mangeri, the hazard mitigation officer for New Jersey, which is on the verge of approving a trial of submerged reefs this summer at three shore towns: Avalon, Belmar and Cape May Point. Official approval of the reef projects from the state is not expected for a week or two.
 
Some Predict Failure
 Anyone who has ever walked into the surf knows why anchoring an underwater reef at the turbulent edge of an ocean is a complicated challenge, and why some people predict that submerged reefs will surely fail, as other solutions have failed in past efforts to protect the beaches.
With each incoming and outgoing wave, swirling water undermines the ground underfoot until the bather settles ankle deep in the shifting sand. Roiling surf works the same way on artificial structures. In a major storm, even a massive reef could be lifted and moved like a toy in a child's wading pool.
A reef that remained stable while absorbing the energy of waves -- much like a speed bump slows down a car -- would be a valuable advance in the search for answers to a coastline under siege from storms like the December northeaster that swept away beaches and sand dunes in New York and New Jersey.
A report released last week by the Federal Emergency Management Agency said it was time to rethink the economics of restoring beaches. The Federal Government alone has poured more than $8 billion into sand replenishment projects conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers in the last two decades, and the states, local communities and the emergency management agency have contributed billions more.
The FEMA report, assembled by investigators drawn from Federal, state, local and private interests, recommended for the first time that New Jersey consider buying some storm-damaged beach properties and taking them out of development.
The recommendation chilled both private and commercial beachfront property owners, who have successfully resisted relinquishing their grip on the shoreline. They want money to go to replenish sand, not to buy their property; they say a state acquisition fund would unfairly deprive them of their property at prices far below market values.
That is where companies like Breakwaters International Inc. come in, touting the economic benefits of submerged reefs. The company, based in Flemington, N.J., is awaiting final approval from New Jersey officials to proceed with the installation this summer of three 1,000-foot-long underwater reefs made of new water-insoluble concrete materials, said Richard Creter, president of Breakwaters. The project would cost $2.1 million to be paid by the state and by the towns of Avalon, Belmar and Cape May Point.
 
The Argument Against
 But many experts share the opinion of Dr. Orrin Pilkey, an authority on shoreline preservation, who argues that no artificial structures have a place on sensitive beaches.
"It looks like more public money down the drain," said D. W. Bennett, director of the American Littoral Society, a New Jersey-based group concerned with the nation's coasts.
"Underwater reefs may work in the short term for a specific beach, but the dynamics of these things is that they eventually steal sand from other beaches somewhere down the line," Mr. Bennett said, arguing that it would be better to buy up beach land to keep it out of development.
At Breakwaters, Mr. Creter shows off a scale model of the reef that he says has been perfected by 10 years of research and trials. An earlier design was used to install a 200-foot-long reef off Oakwood on the north shore of Long Island and another at Sea Isle City near Cape May, N.J.
These earlier generations of reefs, he said, were similar to traditional breakwaters in that their tops broke the surface of the water.
The latest models are designed to be constantly submerged, with the top of the six-foot-high reef at a depth of five feet below the ocean surface at low tide.
A 1,000-foot-long reef would consist of about 100 interlocked units made of microsilica concrete, each weighing 20 tons. Each 12-foot-wide unit, with concrete teeth projecting from a 15-foot base, is intended to be anchored on a thickly woven plastic mat positioned on the sea floor about 250 feet from the shoreline and parallel to it.
"The reef bites into the mat and seats itself into an uneven sand bottom," Mr. Creter said.
The units have a terraced seaward slope designed to absorb a wave's energy as it crosses over it, forcing the wave to curl and break well short of the beach.
The snubbed beachward slope has a fluted surface that funnels a wave's backwash up to a flat peak, where it is jetted toward flumes that propel the sand-filled water toward the surface, to be carried shoreward by the next onrushing wave. The returning sand is deposited at the toe of the reef, preventing it from being underminded, Mr. Creter said.
 
Won't Restore Sand
 He concedes that his reef, by itself, will not restore sand-starved beaches. "But it will protect beaches from normal erosion and at times of severe storms it will keep sand from being washed out into the ocean and lost, thereby reducing expensive replenishment costs in the future," he said.
The beaches for the test projects were selected, he said, because each has natural features that represent different challenges of beach erosion.
Belmar, in Monmouth County, has a headland beach with existing jetties perpendicular to the shore. The beach and boardwalk suffered heavy damage in the December storm.
Avalon, near Atlantic City, hasa barrier-island beach without breakwaters or jetties that has conducted its own beach replenishment projects in the past.
Cape May Point, at the southern end of the 127-mile long coastline, is badly eroded by cross-currents where the ocean and Delaware Bay meet.
 
Florida Experience
 One coastal community that already has extensive experience with underwater reefs is Palm Beach, Fla.
 
Private Money for a Reef
 A 552-foot offshore reef designed by Atlantic Coastal Engineering Inc. of West Palm Beach was installed in front of an eroded private beach in 1988 and the $200,000 cost was paid by the property owner, Willis du Pont.
The beach subsequently grew by 60 feet, according to Nancy S. Douthit, a Town Council member, "and Mr. du Pont believes his personal financing was well spent."
The town eventually received permits by the Florida Department of Natural Resources to install a 4,000-foot reef in front of its public beach. Atlantic Engineering used cranes to put 57 concrete units into the ocean last summer and locked them together before weather forced a postponement of work on the remaining 185 units until this spring.
The 650-foot reef has already paid off over the winter, Ms. Douthit said.
"Out of no beach -- there were waves lapping at the base of a seawall at low tide -- has emerged a good 60 feet of beach at mean high water," she said. "We also have sand at the base of the seawall six feet higher than what it was before."
 
Reservations Expressed
 The state has provided $500,000 to monitor the reef's effectiveness, although reservations have been expressed by officials of the Natural Resources Department.
"All the present structures have problems with inadequate foundations," said Paden Woodruff, a senior engineer in the department's Bureau of Coastal Engineering and Regulation. "But we've gone along with it because if we didn't we would be called closed-minded bureaucrats."
As it will be in the New Jersey tests, the stability of the reef is at issue.
Mr. Woodruff says it took only one storm for the reef to shift.
"It sits on a thin layer of sand and all the natural material under the reef washed away beneath it," he said. "Two months after it was installed our tests found it had settled two to three feet below its functional level."
Ms. Douthit acknowledges that the reef has settled but says it has still been effective.
"Where there had been no beach before there is beach now," she said. "And even after six northeaster storms this winter it keeps growing. That's a pretty bizarre result for a technology that doesn't work."

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COAST EROSION; BEACHES BEACHES (92%); ISLANDS & REEFS (92%); EROSION (91%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); EROSION CONTROL (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMIES (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (65%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



625 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO HOCKEY;
N.H.L.'s Northern Lights Starting to Dim

BYLINE: By Joe Lapointe

 BODY:
While the expanding National Hockey League harvests a $100 million cash crop from the sunny, southern climes of Anaheim, Calif., and Miami, financial fault lines are widening in two places on its northern frontier.
Tremors are being felt in Edmonton, where the model franchise of the 1980's is becoming an embarrassment of the 90's, and in Minnesota, where the revival of two years ago might not be enough to keep the North Stars in one of the most sophisticated hockey markets in the United States. 
 First, Edmonton. Remember how baseball's Kansas City Athletics served as a de facto farm club for the Yankees in the 50's and 60's before they moved to Oakland?
This seems to be the model for the Oilers. They now supply other teams by trading and selling expensive players while their owner threatens to transfer the franchise.
With the season nearing the three-quarter mark, the Oilers, despite a 5-4 victory Thursday night over the champion Penguins in Pittsburgh, were 4 points out of the fourth and final playoff berth in the Smythe Division before Winnipeg's game last night at Vancouver.
If they fail to qualify for the post-season, it will be a first; the Oilers have played in 37 tournament rounds since joining the N.H.L. in 1979-80, when the World Hockey Association went out of business. Without the roughly $250,000 profit from each home playoff game, the owner, Peter Pocklington, speculates, the team will lose $2 million.
He has threatened to move to an undisclosed location unless he gets a better lease deal from Northlands Coliseum or a new building with more luxury suites. Fans who remember teams like the Baltimore Colts and the Brooklyn Dodgers know that such threats aren't always hollow. Pocklington traded Wayne Gretzky. Never say "never."
"It always comes as a great shock to people, but I don't know why," said Bill Tuele, the public relations director for the Oilers, referring to teams that move. "What's surprising about that? You either make it in business or you move."
The business community in Edmonton is taking Pocklington seriously. Gerry Yuen, president of the Northlands Coliseum board, is negotiating with Pocklington to buy the team.
"If we lose the Oilers, Edmonton will suffer from an economic and status point of view," Yuen said in a telephone interview. "Peter knows what we want and we continue to talk. We have the means to put it together. We have the financial backing."
As for their roster, the Oilers show evidence of the tough-mindedness of Glen Sather, their president and general manager. Right wing Joe Murphy tried to win himself a higher salary this season by sitting out. He hasn't played a game and hasn't earned a dollar. Sather didn't return calls seeking comment on the situation, but Tuele explained the Sather philosophy.
"Joe Murphy has one decent season," Tuele said. "Not great, not good, just decent, and he demands a million bucks. See you later, Joe. Have a nice life."
Gary Bettman, the new N.H.L. commissioner, said he talked with Pocklington about his alternatives to relocating.
"There are certain aspects of the Oilers' situation that are difficult for them to operate under," Bettman said, "and Peter Pocklington is working very hard on trying to remedy those situations so that it wouldn't be necessary."
Meanwhile, the Minnesota owner, Norman Green, spent part of last week in Dallas, investigating a possible move to Reunion Arena. After Green purchased the North Stars from the brothers Gordon and George Gund for the 1990-91 season and averted a move to San Jose, Calif., the team reached the Stanley Cup finals.
Despite increased attendance since then, Green insists he lost $10 million last season and will lose $5 million this season. Although the Twin Cities have three hockey arenas of major league quality, Green said none offers "appropriate assurances for the long-term viability of the franchise."
In a high-profile visit, Green toured Dallas with Roger Staubach, the former Cowboys quarterback. (Idle thought: If the North Stars move to Dallas and become the South Stars or the Lone Stars, wouldn't a natural rivalry be with Houston? But if the hockey Oilers move there, they couldn't keep their name because the National Football League franchise already uses it.)
More ominously, Bettman said this week that the league's board of governors has given Green permission to move his team. In seeking a "geographic footprint" for television, the N.H.L. has said it needs Texas to become more attractive to advertisers and networks.
Losing Edmonton would be embarrassing for Canada, but would bring hardly a shrug on Madison Avenue. A Dallas-Houston tandem would be a logical fit, and established organizations could field competitive teams there quickly. What about Minnesota and Edmonton? They could line up for expansion franchises. The N.H.L. has two more to award. All you need is money.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Pocklington threatened to move the Oilers unless conditions improve. (Paul Wodehouse/Edmonton Sun)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ALBERTA, CANADA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: EDMONTON OILERS; MINNESOTA NORTH STARS EDMONTON OILERS HOCKEY CLUB (59%); EDMONTON OILERS (98%); EDMONTON OILERS (98%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (90%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (83%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (83%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (55%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDMONTON OILERS; MINNESOTA NORTH STARS EDMONTON OILERS (98%); EDMONTON OILERS (98%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (90%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (83%); MINNESOTA NORTH STARS (83%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (55%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); BASEBALL (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); 

PERSON: POCKLINGTON, PETER; LAPOINTE, JOE PETER H POCKLINGTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



626 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Real Political Reform Can't Wait

 BODY:
"We must begin again to make Government work for ordinary taxpayers, not simply for organized interest groups and that beginning must start with real political reform," President Clinton said midway through his economic address on Wednesday. "Believe me," he improvised after the applause died down, "they were cheering that last section at home."
The television offered a richly symbolic image at that moment. Visible over the President's left shoulder was the genial face of House Speaker Thomas Foley. It was not possible to tell from his expression what Mr. Foley thought of this remark, but Mr. Foley did seem to be clapping his hands. Now he needs to use them to open up the legislative throttle if the country is to get the campaign finance and lobbying laws that are needed to clean up Congress. 
 So far, Mr. Foley has given theoretical assent to campaign reform, but has made the House calendar a hostage to recalcitrant Democrats who hope that Mr. Clinton's idealism will burn itself out and that public demand for reform will wilt in the summer doldrums.
Mr. Clinton called in his speech for action on campaign finance reform "this year." That may have sounded good to most viewers at home. But it's a clear retreat from his commitment to put the issue at the top of his legislative agenda. In the Congressional lexicon, "this year" could just as well be never, and it is a troubling signal that Mr. Clinton may be swayed by Mr. Foley's private warning that pushing campaign reform will endanger his economic legislation.
It is easy to understand why fund-raising-obsessed House incumbents would want to delay any action to make them less beholden to the special interests that finance their campaigns (see chart). Yet, why Mr. Clinton would go along is baffling, especially given the strong conflicting advice from the Senate majority leader, George Mitchell. Mr. Mitchell has put campaign finance legislation on a fast track in his chamber, with the hope of moving it to the floor for a vote as early as next month.
Just as baffling is Mr. Clinton's warm endorsement of the lame lobbying disclosure bill proposed by Senator Carl Levin of Michigan. In his speech, he called on Congress to pass it "quickly" as a step "to deal with the undue influence of special interests." What Mr. Clinton didn't say, but what every senator and House member well knows, is that the bill doesn't require disclosure of the sort of embarrassing details that might actually shame the typical member to quit mooching off lobbyists for expensive meals and exotic vacations.
Mr. Clinton may be hoping that speedy approval of a flawed lobbying bill would detract attention from the laggard path of campaign finance reform. If the President wants to play this shell game, he should be prepared to be exposed as phony and fainthearted on this issue.
But if Mr. Clinton would level with Americans on political reform, as he has on the economy, he would gain in popularity and respect. The next step is for Mr. Clinton to say how he would toughen the campaign finance bill passed last year by Congress and vetoed by President Bush, and to demand from Congress a firm timetable for getting the legislation to his desk. And the next time he is standing at the lectern in the House, it would not hurt to turn around and tell Mr. Foley to quit clapping and get on with the people's business.

GRAPHIC: Table shows total 1992 PAC reciepts for some members of Congress (Source: Federal Election Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES; ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTION LAW (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



627 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Bill Did Good

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
This column is to praise President Clinton for his stunningly honest and realistic economic speech last week and to point out that leaders abroad are hailing it left and right.
I am very annoyed at myself for attacking the speech for scanting foreign policy issues without first making clear the pride I felt in a President talking to the American people as adults. Who knows if his plan for revitalizing the economy will work, but it was pure pleasure to hear a Presidential address on the economy that seemed to make sense and wasn't riddled with baloney. 
 My colleagues and I, like journalistic Dr. Strangeloves, are ready to nuke Mr. Clinton at the slightest provocation. We ought to let up a little on the 1-month-old President -- or show at least as much patience with him as foreigners do.
Something interesting and important was largely ignored last week as we did our journalistic thing. Foreign leaders and most Americans discovered a supranational common bond: They agree that the American people should suffer, struggle and endure privations for the next four years to atone for the high living of the 80's.
This astounding bond results not from a devious Republican plot to insure President Clinton's defeat after four short years. It is, rather, the product of Mr. Clinton's well-argued call for higher taxes and spending cuts to lower the Federal deficit.
Such harsh medicine is what Americans have been dodging and foreign leaders demanding for years. Americans are now willing to take it because they are frightened and don't see any real alternative. Foreign leaders have long been convinced that there is no alternative, that Americans have to tighten their belts to restore a healthy economy and that a strong American economy is essential to grow the world economy.
All the talk of the 1980's about Germany and Japan emerging as the new engines of world economic growth turned out to be just talk. In their heart of hearts, foreign leaders knew that all along. But they had just about given up hope of any U.S. President having the courage to raise taxes, cut spending and take the lead again.
For years, European and Asian leaders had been saying that the American economy was deathly ill. To get well, they had been telling Presidents Reagan and Bush, the U.S. had to reduce its ballooning deficit. They had just about given up hope that any American President would have the courage to ask his citizens to take such harsh medicine -- until Bill Clinton.
A typical reaction came from Yuji Tanahashi, a senior Japanese trade official. "We think the President's proposal is realistic and aggressive. It showed his firm determination to ease the country's budget deficit and increase industrial competitiveness," he said. "If the U.S. economy recovers through these policies, it will also be good for the world economy."
The French newspaper Le Monde, in spite of itself, was even more effusive. "At the risk of his own popularity," said its editorial, "he attacked the roots of the 'American evil.' "
Financing the U.S. debt has soaked up one trillion dollars in foreign loans in the last 10 years alone. The huge yearly U.S. deficit, more than anything else, increased competition for loans and kept the costs high for borrowing money worldwide. The Clinton plan gives foreigners new hope of borrowing more easily at lower rates -- and thus of stimulating their own economies.
At the same time, foreigners have found something new to worry about. They see that Mr. Clinton is asking American businesses to absorb a variety of new costs and tax burdens, and they fear the companies will come back to the White House and demand trade protection in return -- and that the President, in need of their political support, will heed their cries. In general, foreigners remain very nervous about Mr. Clinton's possible protectionist proclivities.
But most of all, they see in Mr. Clinton's plan a coming to grips with America's underlying economic problems. And they know that the U.S. must get its own economic house in order before it can regain the confidence to lead a new march for freer trade -- the only certain way to create more and better jobs and a renewed sense of hope for a pessimistic world that is turning inward and becoming nasty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



628 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: End Baseball's Privileged Status

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
I was distressed to read Clark Griffith's extensive apologia for Major League Baseball's antitrust exemption ("Good Reason for Baseball's Antitrust Exemption," The Times, Jan. 17). In my opinion, it is filled with inaccuracies and faulty judgments that can only mislead fans and public policymakers anxious to rectify the woefully errant course of our national pastime. 
 First, Griffith says baseball does not act like a monopoly, and cites as evidence the fact that "teams in the nonexempt sports leagues charge higher prices for game tickets than does baseball." True enough, basketball and football charge higher prices, but basketball plays half the number of games in arenas with one-fifth the seating capacity as baseball, and football plays one-tenth the number of games. The different ticket prices have to do with the law of supply and demand, not the existence of the exemption.
Second, Griffith suggests that the reason Congress and the Supreme Court have not lifted the exemption is because the exemption is reasonable. In fact, both Congress and the Court have concluded exactly the opposite on several occasions. Their inaction has to do with politics, not with reason.
Third, Griffith says there is nothing unusual about Major League Baseball's legal status, noting that "exemptions from antitrust laws are quite common." He then cites the cases of power, water and gas companies. What Griffith leaves out is the fact that these natural monopolies are then made subject to public rate regulation. The technology of utilities' production (falling average costs) provides justification for this treatment; not so with baseball.
Fourth, Griffith cites the case of the N.F.L.'s Raiders and notes that if the N.F.L. had baseball's exemption, the Raiders would still be in Oakland. Here he is probably right, but it should be noted that the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this case had to do with the interpretation that football's rule 4.3 was attempting to protect the Rams' monopoly in the Los Angeles area. Thus, the judicial precedent is ambiguous in its applicability to other situations.
Lifting baseball's exemption would not guarantee that the shortage of teams would be rectified, but it would create conditions making it more possible for a competitive league to emerge. Baseball is the only team sport that has not been challenged by a rival league over the last 40 years, and baseball has expanded more slowly than the other sports' leagues. Congress should not only lift the exemption and put an end to "the baseball anomaly," it should pass legislation granting cities the right of first refusal (enabling them to buy a team before it is allowed to move) and establishing an expansion timetable.
If the political winds in Washington judge this to be excessively interventionist, then Congress can break baseball's four divisions into separate business entities, allowing the entities to collaborate on playing rules and post-season play but not on setting territorial monpolies, television contracts or collective bargaining.
The gains from such a public policy shift would be obvious and far-reaching: cities would receive a fairer treatment; fans would have more access to viewing games at the ballpark and on television; more opportunities for playing professional baseball would emerge; the quality of play would not perceptibly diminish but games would be more exciting as star players once again would begin to challenge longstanding single season performance records; and, competitive pressure would force owners to be more responsive and efficient in the management of their teams.
ANDREW ZIMBALIST
Northampton, Mass.
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., and the author of "Baseball and Billions" (Basic Books, 1992).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); BASEBALL (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); 

PERSON: ZIMBALIST, ANDREW (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



629 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Mr. Gaidar

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Vladimir Kvint ("A Healthy Realism for the Russians," Viewpoints, Jan. 24) is both rude and wrong in his evaluation of Yegor T. Gaidar, the economic reformer and former Prime Minister of Russia. 
True, Mr. Gaidar had no experience in the bankrupt Communist world of Soviet industry. But since that system of centralized planning led to the corruption of many otherwise honest people who worked in it, and to the economy's collapse, it is to Mr. Gaidar's credit that he avoided it.
But, more important, Mr. Kvint is 100 percent off the mark to argue that Mr. Gaidar knew no economics until he became Prime Minister. Mr. Gaidar spent many years studying both economic theory and the practice of stabilization and monetary policy around the world. His understanding of the economics necessary to turn his country around was subtle, sophisticated and for the most part correct. The failures of Russian economic reform lie at the feet of those, like Mr. Kvint, who would argue for unlimited inflationary subsidies to the dinosaurs of Soviet socialist state industry.
 
THOMAS J. RICHARDSON
New Haven, Jan. 26
 
The author is an assistant professor in the department of economics at Yale University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WRITERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (53%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, THOMAS J; GAIDAR, YEGOR T; KVINT, VLADIMIR (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



630 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: The Far Side of the Gas Tax

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Mr. Schipper wants the American public to accept a gasoline price of $3.15 a gallon, a price boosted that high by a vastly increased Federal motor fuel tax. 
 It will be a tough sell. And the real costs of such a move would be retarded economic activity, a rise in unemployment and aggravated inflation.
The fact that Europeans are more heavily taxed at the pump should have little bearing on United States tax policy. Europe is an irrelevant model. High gasoline taxes were imposed there when cars were considered luxuries, and even today the per-capita car ownership rate is far lower than in the United States. No one argues that Americans should pay higher income taxes because Europeans do. Why should gasoline be the exception?
Our economy and way of life benefit from our mobility. It should not be cavalierly constrained without a clear understanding of the consequences.
 
ANDY YOOD
Washington, Feb.3
 
The author is taxation director of the American Petroleum Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; GASOLINE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE TAXES & TAXATION (93%); FUEL TAX (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE (88%); TAX LAW (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); 

PERSON: YOOD, ANDY; SCHIPPER, LEE

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



631 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: A COLD WAR ICON COMES UNDER SIEGE

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, two icons of the cold war, are to be shut down under President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan, according to Administration officials and officials with the two broadcasting operations.
Among the cuts outlined in the President's economic plan are a $60 million savings in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 and $644 million savings over five years for the Board for International Broadcasting, which oversees the foreign-language broadcasts. 
 Officials with the Office of Management and the Budget and the chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting say these cuts would be accomplished by merging Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty into the United States Information Agency. The officials said such a consolidation would mean shutting down the two services in 1995 and letting more than 1,600 employees go. Most are based in Munich.
 
Lobbying Is Planned
 Officials of the Board for International Broadcasting say they intend to lobby Congress to have their funds restored, arguing that despite the end of the cold war, the two operations have not lost their relevence.
"What you have is a budget document that is calling for these savings," said Malcolm S. Forbes Jr., board chairman. "But I think these proposals have not been thought through or carefully weighed by the President's foreign policy team, and certainly not by the Congress."
Mr. Forbes is hoping that support in Congress, particularly from Senator Joseph R. Biden, Democrat of Delaware, who has been a staunch advocate for the radio operations, will lead to the restoration of the cuts. Foreign-language broadcasting, Mr. Forbes said, "is the cheapest, most effective way of influencing events in other countries on a daily basis."
But a Congressional aide involved in overseeing the budget said that given the questions about the broadasts' relevence after the demise of Communism, and the pressure to approve spending cuts and painful tax increases as part of the President's package, he doubted there was sufficient political support on Capital Hill.
 
Begun During Cold War
 "If the only spending-cut vote that members would have to take was Radio Free Europe-Radio Liberty, they would feel they got off very lightly," said the Congressional aide, who asked not to be identified.
Begun during the cold war, using funds from the Central Intelligence Agency, the two stations broadcast local news in 24 languages to the Eastern bloc and the former Soviet Union. Radio Free Europe, which began in 1951, broadcasts to Eastern Europe, with the exception of the former Yugoslavia. Radio Liberty, started in 1953, broadcasts to the former Soviet republics and to Afghanistan.
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty are separate from the Voice of America, a worldwide service that broadcasts general news, music, features and commentary.
The Clinton economic plan does not envision any special trims in the current operations at Voice of America, but it does eliminate plans for a $1 billion relay station planned for the Negev, in Israel. The Negev station, which would cover 2,000 acres, has been vigorously opposed by environmentalists, who say that the installation would disturb a delicate desert ecology and that radio waves would disorient migrating birds.
The plan does allocate $125 million for a relay station in Kuwait to carry V.O.A. broadcasts in Arabic.
There are no specific spending cuts planned for Radio Marti or TV Marti, two Spanish-language outlets broadcasting to Cuba.
The proposal to eliminate Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty is the latest thrust in the back-and-forth debate over maintaining the services in a new technological and political era.
 
Hard Look by Congress
 In December 1991, a Presidential panel recommended that Radio Free Euorpe and Radio Liberty have their roles redefined, rather than curtailed. But last August a different Presidential commission recommended phasing out the services. Congressional aides say that even if Mr. Clinton had not put forward a plan to eliminate the stations, Congress would have taken a hard look at the need for continuing them.
Advocates of curtailing the services say that they are less needed now, with Communism on the wane, and that commercial operations like Cable News Network are making inroads into the former Soviet bloc, ending the need for government-backed broadcasting.
But supporters counter that while Communism is receding, democracy has yet to take root. They note that in some countries, like Slovakia, the state maintains tight control over the news. They also say the economies of many countries are not developed enough to make private broadcasting commercially viable.
"Communism may have lost, but democracy has not yet won," Mr. Forbes said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about plans to eliminate Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty misstated the cost of constructing a radio transmitter in Israel. The amount appropriated by Congress is $255.4 million, not $1 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RADIO FREE EUROPE; RADIO LIBERTY; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (91%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (91%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (90%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RADIO FREE EUROPE; RADIO LIBERTY; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (91%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (91%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (90%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (73%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); COLD WAR (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); APPROVALS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



632 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Can Tourists Learn to Tread Lightly?

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN; TIMOTHY EGAN is chief of the Seattle bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
EVERY year, thousands of people pay up to $5,000 a week for the right to snap pictures of Kodiak brown bears on their home turf, savagely beautiful Kodiak Island in the Gulf of Alaska. The problem, from the bears' point of view, is that there are not a lot of places left in the world where they can gulp huge quantities of king salmon without human interference. If too many spectators line the swollen rivers of the island, the bears will start to change their behavior, maybe even directing their appetite toward tourists.
That is the conundrum facing modern tourism in distant and unscarred lands. More and more, people who travel are clamoring for places where the culture is untouched by MTV, and the land is yet to be burdened with warehouse shopping centers. But visitors can change the character of a place. 
 To cope with what many see as a major threat to the future of tourism -- the loving-a-place-to-death syndrome -- the industry has begun to form some guiding principles for the broad area of travel known as ecotourism. While the term may smack of trendy environmental correctness, it has found its way into the mainstream. The World Wildife Fund defines ecotourism as "any kind of tourism that involves nature." The travel industry has used the term to encompass everything from cruise ships in the Caribbean to East African photography expeditions. According to one industry estimate, the market for ecotourism is more than 43 million Americans.
At the same time, there is an emerging consensus that the travel trade should practice "sustainable tourism" -- basically, that visits to a given area should be limited to a number of people that will not have a detrimental effect on it. The idea is that a tropical island beach hike, or a visit to a Mayan temple in Mexico, should be around for future generations in much the same form as it is today. Like other types of conservation, this model draws a line at growth, a painful thought to many operators in an expanding business.
Yet to do nothing but allow more feet to stomp over the thinning dust of the world's unique places is to invite economic and environmental trouble, tourism experts say.
"We know we can't sell a place if it doesn't look good," said Shawn Flaherty, a spokeswoman for the Travel Industry Association of America, the nation's largest tourism trade group. The organization last year released a report on ecotourism, based in part on a survey showing an overwhelming number of those polled are concerned about humanity's threat to its best-loved places. It was this report that estimated the market for ecotourism at 43 million Americans.
"The report's message is clear: the travel industry must become more green because the environment is our chief product, our livelihood," said Edward R. Book, the association's president.
The central irony that more travel reduces the allure of a place predates late-20th century concerns about habitat loss and cultural interference, of course. Amid all the imperial superlatives in 19th-century British travel journals was a smattering of discussion about what the tea-drinking citizens of the Empire were doing to East African wildlife and Egyptian monuments. Late in life, Paul Gauguin lamented that the Tahiti he had helped idealize in his paintings was starting to fade in the light of an oncoming 20th century. So many souvenir-seekers chiseled away at the unique rock formations of Yellowstone that early laws had to be passed protecting the park from its fans.
With the growth of air travel, the world became smaller, virtually overnight. The National Geographic would no sooner discover a "lost tribe" in some remote corner of the globe than enterprising travel companies would begin offering package tours to visit the unspoiled inhabitants. And when indigenous people change their economy from, say, fishing to selling trinkets, both sides may be worse off, ecotourism proponents say.
In the modern era, Americans conquered Mount Everest in 1962, and were followed within 15 years by expeditions to the highest spot on the planet for the purpose of picking up garbage left behind by mountain climbers. Everest, like other points that pierce the ceiling of the atmosphere, is no longer lonely. Witness the trekking phenomenon to the Himalayas, which has led to a stripping of high-alpine forests and shrubs for fuel, and drastically changed village life.
But no amount of handwringing about uncaring crowds and foothills of litter has really lessened the urge of people to travel, and especially to untrammeled places. Many economists believe that tourism will be the number one industry, worldwide, by the year 2000. In the United States, it is the second largest single source of jobs -- about 6.4 million -- generating $344 billion in revenue last year, according to the travel association's figures.
Given the seeming inevitability of growth, what some people in the industry are trying to do is change the way tourists venture out. To a considerable degree, that has already happened with the astonishing growth of what is known as adventure travel.
In general, the major tourism interests have shied away from such measures as outright restrictions on visitors or placing vulnerable areas off-limits. They call on tour groups to educate clients about abuse of the land and culture they visit, to promote environmental awareness and to contribute financially to causes that will keep the scenery intact. But there seems to be a general awareness in the industry that if the travel industry does not take steps to curb its potential for abuse, outsiders in government or elsewhere will do it for them.
To cope with waves of visitors, the government of Ecuador imposed a limit of 10,000 visitors a year to the Galapagos Islands, a national park known for its odd creatures stuck in an evolutionary time warp. Adventure travel magazines are full of ads for visits "with a biologist" to the islands. But enforcement of the crowd limit has been weak, and more than 45,000 visitors a year have been allowed on the island, according to some Ecuadorean estimates.
"Ecuador is faced with these two realities: so much to offer and so much to defend and protect," said Oswaldo Munoz, of the Ecuadorean Ecotourism Association, in a recent address in Canada.
To many environmentalists, the steps the industry has considered taking are timid.
"I don't think the mainstream travel industry people understand it yet," said Jerry Mallett, president of the Adventure Travel Society, which represents nature-based tourism operators. "Things may have to be regulated, worldwide, or we face a crisis. The national parks understand this. The guide operators understand this. But it may not be clear to everyone else yet."
Mr. Mallet said the market for travel based on natural or cultural resources has increased dramatically in the last 10 years. There are nearly 9,000 adventure-travel outfitters in the country, according to the society, specializing in everything from wilderness horseback trips to bungee-jumping from dramatic cliffs. Whale-watching, swimming with dolphins, catch-and-release fishing, llama trekking, rain forest canoe trips -- all these activities are showing up in brochures, along with such mainstays as beach and skiing vacations.
One of the biggest growth areas -- and a major challenge to operators who want to steer clear of cultural interference -- is travel to visit aboriginal people, said Mr. Mallett. "If you can go to these places with a local guide, a storyteller, somebody who crosses the two worlds, you can avoid a lot of the problems," he said.
In the United States, many Indian reservations have long agonized over how much they should play up native rituals and dances for tourists. In parts of Montana and the Southwest, Indian powwows and craft festivals are major money-makers during the vital summer season. The struggle, say native leaders, is to maintain authenticity and integrity in the face of demand for what tourists want. Some tribes, such as the Blackfoot Indians of Montana, have decided to use their promixity to a national park -- in this case Glacier -- and fully market the crafts and customs unique to their tribe. The same thing is true among Hopi and Navajo entrepreneurs in the Southwest. It may look crass to some purists, but the alternative is poverty, the Indians argue.
A cursory tour of some of the world's more fragile places shows that the tensions brought on by travel have become a primary concern around the globe.
In Costa Rica, as in Ecuador, nature-based travel is the fast-growing segment of the tourism industry. The small Central American nation has an excellent national park system, and has won high marks for how it manages its rain forests. But it may be reaching its tourism saturation point, according to some operators -- the nation of 3 million people had 500,000 visitors last year. Officials in Costa Rica are taking steps to limit visits to some rain forest reserves.
British Columbia, home of a fast-disappearing temperate rain forest, turquoise glacial lakes and fjords crowded with killer whales, has been trying to market itself as an ecotourist's paradise, under the slogan: Super, Natural British Columbia. But the new image is in conflict with some of the old industries of the province, particularly logging, which has stripped most of the ancient trees from Vancouver Island, and mining, which has spoiled a number of waterways. In addition, quaint old Victoria, the capital of British Columbia, does not use secondary treatment for its sewage -- as virtually all major American cities are required to do -- flushing several thousand tons of waste water into the Strait of Juan de Fuca every day.
"We have a real conflict," said Darlene Marzari, the Minister of Tourism for British Columbia. "Ecotourism is probably the most important growth industry in B.C. Our niche in the world market is to be known as fresh, clean and green." She said the new National Democratic Party government of the province was planning to double the number of parks, to cut back on excessive logging and to push for secondary treatment of the sewage in Victoria.
The United States gave the world its first national park more than a century ago with the creation of Yellowstone. But today, environmentalists say one of the biggest threats to the park system is overcrowding, particularly in automobiles. In 1991, 267 million people stopped in the parks, a record. There is a reservation system for camping in Yosemite, Grand Canyon, Yellowstone and other popular parks. Yosemite limits the number of cars to the valley to 5,000 a day. Now, there is a call for restricting the number of visitors -- not just vehicles -- to certain parks.
The national parks have been models of sorts in confronting the problem of overuse. The bears of Yellowstone used to be garbage-eating scavengers, hooked on discarded Twinkies and wiener wrappers. More than a decade ago, park biologists, worried that Yellowstone was becoming a kind of Rocky Mountain theme park, made the bears go cold turkey, separating them from campers. It has been a rousing success, the officials say. Now Yellowstone has a thriving bear population that feeds on what it has always fed on -- berries, insects and occasional small animals.
ECOTOURISM advocates would like to see much of the world adopt the attitude of New Zealand, which has for more than a decade practiced the concept of sustainable tourism. The number of visitors to some areas is restricted. Strict environmental standards are applied to new developments. Tour operators must agree to abide by certain stewardship principles. Visitors are encouraged to stay longer and spread their money around to more places, rather than clustering in a few large resort areas. The Mexican beach community of Cancun, the overcrowded Greek islands and high-rise resorts in Hawaii are held up as something to avoid -- the old model. The effort has met with some resistance among private tour operators, but New Zealand officials say they are trying to insure the country's natural wonders will be around for future generations.
In essence, preservation for tomorrow is what drives most of the discussion about a kinder and gentler tourism. The initial reaction of many visitors to, say, the chasm of Grand Canyon is awe. After that, there is a sense of protection. The canyon, like most natural attractions, belongs to all the world. What the disciples of ecotourism hope to do is build on the more altruistic attitudes of travelers, arguing that it is in the best interest of the soon-to-be dominant global industry to tread lightly.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Feb. 21 about concerns over preserving the environment of exotic places misidentified the party that controls the government of British Columbia. It is the New Democratic Party.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Indian girl in Monument Valley, Utah. (David Burnett/Contact Press Images); Photographing a blue-footed booby, Hood Island, Galapagos. (Tom and Michele Grimm/International Stock Photography)(pg. 15); Visitors in the Santa Cruz Tortoise Reserve, Galapagos. (David M. Dennis/Tom Stack and Associates)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ENVIRONMENT MAMMALS (90%); ECOTOURISM (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CRUISES (77%); HIKING (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BEACHES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); RETAILERS (54%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



633 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Economic Opus: A Thousand Lines of Type

 BODY:
The Highlights
President Clinton proposed an ambitious plan to remake the American economy, raising taxes on energy, business and the rich, making deep cuts in the military, the Federal bureaucracy and health care payments, and trimming the budget deficit. As Republicans dug in their heels, Mr. Clinton and his aides began a cross-country campaign to sell the program to the American people.
DEFICIT REDUCTION
Over the next four years, the plan would have the Government take in $246 billion in new taxes and spend $247 billion less than planned in present budgets. It would increase other spending on "stimulus and investment" by $169 billion. The net reduction in the deficit over those four years would be $325 billion. But deficit reduction would not begin until next year, because an extra $30 billion would be spent this year to stimulate the economy. (1) (see The Fine Print at right) 
TAX INCREASES
Personal
Rates: The top marginal income tax rate, now 31 percent, would be raised to 36 percent for couples with a taxable income of $140,000, single heads of household with a taxable income of $127,000 and individuals with a taxable income of $115,000. A taxable income of $140,000 is the equivalent of adjusted gross income of about $180,000. (2)
 
Surtax: A 10 percent surtax would be placed on taxable incomes above $250,000. (3)
 
Captial gains: The top tax rate would remain at 28 percent.
 
Medicare tax: Wealthy individuals would have to pay Medicare tax on all their earned income, not just the first $135,000.
 
Social Security:Retired couples with incomes above $32,000 and individuals with incomes above $25,000 would pay income taxes on 85 percent of their Social Security benefits, up from 50 percent.
 
Energy tax: A tax on most forms of energy would eventually raise families' annual combined bills for gasoline, home heat and electricity by between $100 and $150. (4)
 
Business
Rates: The top corporate tax rate, now 34 percent, would be raised to 36 percent on companies with taxable incomes of more than $10 million - about one-tenth of 1 percent of American companies.
 
Deductions limited: Only 50 percent of the cost of business meals and entertainment could be deducted, down from 80 percent.
 
Deductions lost: Lobbying expenses and club dues would no longer be deductible. Businesses would be denied deductions for executives' pay above $1 million a year. (5)
 
Credits Lost: The 100 percent credit for wages paid to workers in Puerto Rico would be reduced to 65 percent.
 
Portfolios: Securities dealers would be required to price their holdings at market value.
 
Multinationals: Taxes would be raised for some multinational and foreign companies doing business in the United States.
 
Users fees: Fees would rise or be imposed for many Government services, including grazing or mining on Federal lands, recreation in national parks and forests, use of inland waterways and registration of airplanes.
 
TAX CUTS
Personal
Virtually all families with incomes below $30,000 would get earned-income tax credits.
 
Business
Capital gains: A special capital gains break would be given for investments in small businesses held at least five years.
 
Investment credits: Small businesses would get a generous investment tax credit for the purchase of new equipment.
 
Real estate: Write-offs of losses from real estate investments would be made more generous for taxpayers in the real estate business.
 
Charity: Taxpayers who make gifts to charitable organizations like museums would be permitted to take deductions for market value, not purchase price.
 
IMMEDIATE ECONOMIC STIMULUS
More would be spent this year on construction projects, summer jobs, wastewater clean-up, childhood immunization and other programs.
 
FUTURE SPENDING INCREASES
More would be spent on research into nuclear fusion and renewable energy and on making buildings more energy efficient.
 
A program to let students pay off colege loans through national service would be created.
 
More money would go to worker training and Head Start.
 
More community-development grants and tax incentives for businesses and housing in poor areas would be offered.
 
The Government would help pay for a fiber-optic data network.
More would be spent on mass transit, high-speed rail, airports and highways.
 
SPENDING CUTS
Military spending would be reduced over the next four years by $76 billion more than President Bush planned, mostly by paring 200,000 more troops and most Star Wars spending.
 
New limits would be placed on some payments to doctors, hospital and laboratories under Medicare and Medicaid.
 
Federal workers would have their pay frozen for one year. About 100,000 Federal jobs would be eliminated through attrition.
 
Spending for the space station and the superconducting super collider would be reduced.
 
Loans for veterans housing would cost more, and veterans would pay part of G.I. Bill benefits.
 
To cut interest costs, the maturity of some Treasury securities would be shortened.
 
Scores of other Government programs would be eliminated or timmed back.
 
(The Fine Print)
 
(1) Shifting the Blame
In its first two years, Mr. Clinton's plan to reduce the deficit relies mostly on tax increases, not on spending cuts, which are probably even more difficult to get through Congress. In 1994, spending cuts would amount to only $5 billion, while additional taxes would bring in $33 billion. Then the cuts accelerate. By 1997, after another round of Congressional elections, they would climb to $73 billion, while taxes would bring in $68 billion.
 
(2) Who's Middle Class?
The Administration says 70 percent of the tax increases would be paid by those with pre-tax incomes over $100,000. It calculates that taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 would see their taxes rise by about 3 percent. Those with incomes between $30,000 and $200,000 would see increase of up to 1 percent. Those below $30,000 would get no increase.
 
(3) Politically Graceful
With the surfax, the top marginal tax rate for Americans earning at least $250,000 in taxable income would amount to 39.6 percent. The White House chose to phrase it as a "10 percent millionaire's surfax " - more politically palatable than asking for a rate of nearly 40 percent.
 
(4)So What's a B.T.U.
The energy tax is based on the B.T.U. content of different fuels. (It's British Thermal Units, not Buy Thermal Underwear). As a common denominator, it's easier to use than calculating barrels vs. tons vs. cubic feet vs. kilowatts. It also makes more sense than taxing fuels simply on what they cost: $100 worth of coal, for example, contains far more unreleased heat (measured in B.T.U.'s) than $100 worth of natural gas or $100 worth of gasoline. And a B.T.U. tax also would not penalize states that use one fuel instead of another.
 
To discourage dependence on imported oil, oil would be taxed at 60 cents per million B.T.U.'s, whether it's refined into gasoline or jet fuel or burned to make electricity. Coal, natural gas and nuclear power would be taxed at 26 cents per million B.T.U.'s.
 
Solar, geothermal, wind and other renewable sources would not be taxed. Oil used to make things like plastics, chemicals and tires would not be taxed.
 
The tax climbs very rapidly. It is expected to take in only $1.5 billion next year, but $25 billion by 1997. Within 4 years, it is expected to add 7.5 cents to the cost of a gallon of gas and $2.25 to the average electric bill.
 
(5) The Executive Loophole
Exceptions could be made for salaries tied to the company's performance; the Treasury has not defined them yet. Many executive pay packages are now tied to some measure of performance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); SALES & SELLING (57%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1993



634 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 8; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Retarded Help Themselves

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
SUPPORT, not supervision, is the watchword of the Community Living Corporation in Mount Kisco, an agency that maintains 3 group homes and 20 apartments for 100 people with developmental disabilities.
The concept that mentally retarded people can successfully live in the community if they receive some support was radical in 1966 when the first community-residence program was started, said John J. Signorelli, the executive director of the nonprofit agency. 
 "In those days, families had no choice, no alternative," Mr. Signorelli said. "Either mentally retarded family members were kept at home or they were put into a state institution. It had been the practice for 50 years until Judith and Maurice Mezoff, a social worker and a psychologist, decided there was a better way."
And so did many middle-class parents with mentally retarded children who joined forces with the Mezoffs, under the title Mezoff Associates, to establish the first supportive group home.
A supportive environment is one in which people with developmental disabilities are given help only when needed and are not under constant supervision.
 
Expansion Started in 1990
 "There is a world of difference between support and supervision," Mr. Signorelli said. "In the days when the accepted professional wisdom was that the mentally retarded would always need supervision and would never be able or allowed to live on their own without it, the Mezoffs believed that people with developmental difficulties would be better off if they were allowed to do as much as they were capable of doing for themselves."
In New York State, 150,000 people are classified as having developmental disabilities: cerebral palsy, autism and mental retardation, Mr. Signorelli said. "In terms of improving the quality of life for them, the Mezoff concept has proved so successful that today it has been replicated by many other agencies," he said.
 
Day-to-Day Assistance
 In 1990 when illness forced the Mezoffs to retire, Mr. Signorelli, a clinical social worker and the former director of an agency for handicapped children and adults, was recruited to convert Mezoff Associates to the Community Living Corporation.
"We also started an expansion program at that time," he said. "From one group home and a few apartments, we've grown to 3 group homes and 20 live-in apartments, with 1 to 4 people living in each apartment unit."
The residents of the group homes and apartments are given the support they need in day-to-day living, Mr. Signorelli said, including such things as shopping for food, making out menus and opening bank accounts. "All of them are employed," he said.
"Some work in sheltered workshops, others in supportive employment positions and a variety of outside jobs in nursing homes, in the food industry or in retail stores as stock clerks," he added. "In doing so, they are no longer economically dependent but have joined the mainstream, buying goods and services and paying taxes just like everybody else."
About a year ago, the agency came up with the concept of starting a for-profit business with a threefold purpose, Mr. Signorelli said. To provide transportation for its clients, it would give some of them the opportunity to work and it would raise money for the benefit of the clients.
Enter Jeffrey L. Biever, a banker with 17 years' experience who felt it was time for him to leave his career in banking for "something entrepreneurial with social values."
"I had met John Signorelli through business and we exchanged ideas," Mr. Biever said, "and I thought that the concept he had for a specialized transportation company for Community Living was something I'd like to develop."
In January 1992, C.L.C. Transportation, a wholly owned for-profit subsidiary of the Community Living Corporation, was started, with Mr. Biever as president.
"We began with one van, bought partially with my personal loan and partially through dealer financing," Mr. Biever said. "It took the place of taxis in taking our C.L.C. clients to doctors' appointments and work programs."
 
'The Van Is Such a Boon'
 Ann A. McDonald, the mother of two children with mental retardation, is the executive director of the nonprofit C.L.C. Foundation, the fund-raising, development and management arm of the Community Living Corporation.
"The van is such a boon," Mrs. McDonald said. "No one knows better than I do the need for courteous, dependable and safe transportation for people with developmental difficulties. I've done my time with cabs that never arrive and with drivers who are indifferent to the needs of their passengers."
Community Living, she continued, has experienced all the same problems and frustrations transporting its Medicaid clients to day-treatment and medical appointments.
"So the transportation company grew out of a real need and also a conviction that who would be better equipped to handle special passengers than we were?" Mrs. McDonald said. Mr. Biever thinks of it as a transportation company with a third dimension.
"And that is sensitivity, which is extremely important when you are dealing with passengers who have special problems," he said. "We stress it in every aspect, especially in hiring drivers. All are experienced drivers. Some have worked with disabled people before, but still we require them to take a two-day course in sensitivity training and emergency medical procedures."
The company has grown in a year to the break-even point, Mr. Biever said, and is now operating six vans, all of them equipped with mobile phones and first-aid kits, and driven by drivers holding commercial licenses.
"It is great to have a business that gives us an opportunity to offer employment to some of our own," Mr. Signorelli said. "Jobs are so important. Some of our clients prep the vans; others work as aides on them, assisting physically handicapped passengers and scheduling pickups and being useful to the driver."
Aides earn a beginning wage of $4.25 an hour, which can increase, based on merit, to $7.
 
An Outside Contract Added
 Thomas Murphy, one of the aides, is 32 and lives in a supportive apartment in Mount Kisco. "I love my job," Mr. Murphy said. "I make sure that all the clients are wearing their seat belts. I double-check to see they all take their lunches when they leave the van. I also help physically handicapped people get on and off. I like earning money because now I'm able to pay toward my rent. I also have a bank account, and every other week I put money into it. I love working. I'd like to do more of it."
Mr. Murphy and the other aides may get their wish. The transportation company recently obtained its first outside contract: transporting outpatients to Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in North Tarrytown. This Wednesday, the service will begin in the Croton area, said Nancy McPartlin, a Phelps spokeswoman.
"We're very excited about it," she said. "We're starting with seniors who need outpatient transportation to the hospital, who previously had to use taxis and buses, which are catch-as-catch-can and a cause for anxiety."
 
An Eye on More Hospitals
 The service is a boon for hospitals, Ms. McPartlin said. "Having reliable and caring people transporting outpatients is so important to us that we thought of doing it on our own," she said. "But it was too expensive a proposition."
Eventually, Mr. Biever said, he expects to have a fairly large transportation company serving several hospitals and agencies.
Those interested in learning more about C.L.C. Transportation can call Mr. Biever at 241-0112.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Murphy, left, a developmentally disabled client of the Community Living Corporation who works as an aide, assisting Kerry Welch, another client, on a trip to see a nurse. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY LIVING CORP; CLC TRANSPORTATION (CO)

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY LIVING CORP; CLC TRANSPORTATION (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); MOUNT KISCO (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL RETARDATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MENTAL RETARDATION (94%); DISABLED PERSONS (93%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (91%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); CEREBRAL PALSY (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (74%); AUTISM (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (62%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (62%); NURSING HOMES (62%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



635 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: The Battle to Keep Retail Dollars at Home

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
THEY are a loyal group of cus tomers followers of the latest fashion trends with dollars to spend. Typical is Julia Yodice of Ardsley, a former account executive for a cosmetics company and now a homemaker. "In my heart of hearts," she said while shopping the Presidents' Day sales last weekend, "I'm a true-blue Bloomie's customer who just loves this place; they have everything I need."
For Mrs. Yodice and other customers who regularly scan the aisles of Bloomingdale's here, the chain is about to build a larger playground. 
 "Bigger can only be better," said Carl Kaffeman, an investment broker from Ossining who was also shopping in the White Plains Bloomingdale's last weekend.
 
Responding to Competition
 The chain, overstocked and underfinanced several years ago, emerged from Chapter 11 protection of the bankruptcy law last year and is planning to expand the 262,000-square-foot mirrored-glass building that was built 18 years ago on the grounds of New York Hospital.
Bloomingdale's also wants to develop a mall at the site and bring in smaller stops and another major retailer, said Carol A. Sanger, a vice president of corporate affairs for Federated Department Stores of Cincinnati, Bloomingdale's parent company.
Spokesmen said the store was responding to competition -- an all-out battle for middle- and upper-income retail dollars -- along a tree-lined stretch of Bloomingdale Road, which until recently had resisted further growth.
Dotted with several upscale department stores, hotels and office buildings, Bloomingdale Road has attracted loyal suburban shoppers over the years to the lunchrooms, cosmetic counters and designer boutiques of Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus as well as Bloomingdale's.
But what had been seen by many residents as a charming, low-key area in which to shop has recently been viewed by developers as a golden opportunity.
Early this year, the Manhattan-based O'Connor Group, a real estate investment firm, broke ground at the corner of Maple Avenue and Bloomingdale Road for a million-square-foot mall. The Westchester, as it will be called, is to include Neiman Marcus, 150 smaller stores and the first Nordstrom store in the state.
The goal, said William J. McCollum, senior vice president for the O'Connor Group, is to build a mall that will compete with malls in Connecticut and New Jersey. He said that shoppers looking for a higher concentration of upscale stores than is now available in the county often travel to New York City or to Bergen County in New Jersey or Danbury Fair and Stamford Town Center.
Another builder, the Conroy Development Company of Greenwich, has also announced plans to develop retail property here. The company plans to renovate Saks Fifth Avenue, across the street from Neiman Marcus, and add more shops.
Janet Wilcox, manager of the Bloomingdale's store in White Plains, said: "We are certainly aware of what's going on down the street. Clearly, we have to meet the competition."
The fight for retail dollars is also heating up in other parts of this city, although different markets are being targeted. The Galleria, in downtown White Plains, last year announced that it would spend $8 million to renovate the 880,000-square-foot enclosed mall, which offers moderately priced merchandise.
Another mall, the Westchester Pavilion, at South Broadway and Maple Avenue, plans to open discount stores like Toys 'R' Us this fall.
While developers along Bloomingdale Road said they are confident that their plans to bring upscale stores like Talbots, Abercrombie & Fitch, Gucci and others to White Plains would be a retailing success, some analysts are skeptical.
 
Two Ends of the Spectrum
 The question, the analysts said, is whether opening expensive stores makes sense at a time when the county is struggling to emerge from a recession and when job layoffs continue in many large corporations.
They said expansion plans along Bloomingdale Road follow last year's closings of two department stores in other parts of the county -- Macy's in New Rochelle and Alexander's in Yonkers -- along with the demise of B. Altman & Company in White Plains several years ago.
Another troubling aspect, analysts said, are figures showing that the number of retail jobs in the county at the end of last year -- 57,700 -- was the lowest for a December since 1976. "It's not to say these more upscale projects can't succeed, but they will have to stay on their toes," said Frank M. Surdey, a regional economist for the State Department of Labor. "This economy is still not healthy."
Analysts also point to trends that suggest that deep discounting -- rather than high-end marketing -- is the wave of the future in the county.
"It's two ends of the spectrum," said Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the county's Office of Economic Development. "Here we have all this activity at the upper end and also we have very strong indications that the warehouse stores -- the no-frills, buy-in-bulk outfits -- are the way to go."
Many of the discount stores, like Filene's Basement and the Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse, are in strip malls along Central Avenue, which runs south from White Plains through the middle of the county to Yonkers.
But Keith J. Foxe, an industry spokesman for the Manhattan-based International Council of Shopping Centers, said it is not an either-or situation. Consumers, he said, are cross-shopping these days.
"Conventional wisdom would indicate that the deep discounter is the way to go in this economy," Mr. Foxe said. "But that's not necessarily the case. Shoppers will buy discount for one item and then pay full price for another kind of purchase."
 
Household Incomes Studied
 He said that Westchester "was like no other county in the nation in terms of population density, per capita income and general demographics that included strong upper- and lower-income shopping activity" and that there was room for both types of retail development.
Federated Department Stores, the O'Connor Group and the Conroy Development Company are basing their high-end marketing plans on statistics that show, for example, a median household income of $120,000 in Scarsdale and $104,822 in North Castle in 1989, the last year for which figures are available, said Vincent J. Pasquale, director of research for the County Department of Planning.
The median household income countywide was $48,405, which took into account cities like Port Chester, where it was $35,216, and Mount Vernon, $34,850.
Westchester -- where 25 percent of the population has household incomes of more than $75,000 and 15 percent has more than $100,000 -- is an "under-stored market that has room for everybody," said Thomas J. Spitznas, a Mount Vernon economist who specializes in regional forecasting.
"The retail sector is finally catching up in Westchester," he said. "There is purchasing power out there to support this development, and if we don't grab it, it is going to continue to fly right out of the county."
 
Countering the Sales-Tax Crunch
 County officials, who have watched sales-tax receipts flatten during the recession, said they welcomed the upturn in retail development.
"The recession and recent department store closings have created a sales-tax crunch," said Stephen V. Reitano, the county's Commissioner of Finance. Westchester's 1.5 percent sales-tax rate is expected to generate 15 percent of the county's $170 million budget this year.
"We need this retail activity to keep the sales tax modest," Mr. Reitano said.
The O'Connor Group said it plans to open The Westchester mall next year. It has signed up Talbots, Talbots Kids, Williams-Sonoma, Pea in the Pod and the Museum Company, among others, said John E. Phelan, executive director of the company. The firm is also negotiating with Polo/Ralph Lauren, Ann Taylor and Liz Claiborne, he said.
Plans for Westchester Place, which include modernizing the Saks Fifth Avenue store here, are being completed, said Alexius C. Conroy, president of the Conroy Development Company. The proposal includes 100 higher-end stores, he said.
 
A Good Christmas Reported
 For Bloomingdale's, the expansion plans come at a good time, said Ms. Sanger of Federated Department Stores. Earnings were up last year for Federated's 222 stores, which include Abraham & Straus, Bon Marche, Burdines, Jordan Marsh, Stern's and Bloomingdale's, among others.
No earnings figures were released for the White Plains store, although Miss Wilcox, the manager, said: "This has been a very good store for Bloomingdale's. Even with the tough economic times, we had an excellent Christmas."
The chain, in addition to building its two-story, 40,000-square-foot addition to the store here, is negotiating with New York Hospital, from which it leases the land, to develop 100,000 square feet for small retail shops and another 120,000 square feet for a co-anchor store. No timetable has been announced for the development.
At least one shopper at Bloomingdale's last week said she wondered whether matters were getting out of hand.
"More is not necessarily better," said Margaret DiPace, a banker from Mamaroneck. "Bloomingdale's shoppers are going to shop Bloomingdale's, no matter what. The store shouldn't be put off by the competition."
"Maybe," she said, "this is all going to be too much."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bloomingdale's in White Plains has developed a loyal following and is now planning to expand the 18-year-old building.; Shoppers in the housewares department of Bloomingdale's. "They have everything I need," a customer said. (pg. 1); Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus, neighbors of Bloomingdale's on Bloomingdale Road. Former B. Altman at right will be torn down to make way for a Nordstrom store. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BLOOMINGDALE'S; NORDSTROM INC; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC MACY'S INC (90%); NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (85%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLOOMINGDALE'S; NORDSTROM INC; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WHITE PLAINS (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COSMETICS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TOILETRIES MFG (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (71%); SUBURBS (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



636 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Right Again, but Somewhat Left

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is the executive editor of Governing magazine and the author of "The United States of Ambition: Politicians, Power and the Pursuit of Office."

 BODY:

BOILING POINT
Republicans, Democrats, and the Decline
of Middle-Class Prosperity.
By Kevin Phillips.
307 pp. New York:
Random House. $23. 
 THROUGH more than 25 years of analysis and prediction, nobody has been as transcendently right about the outlines of American political change -- or as tantalizingly wrong about crucial details -- as Kevin Phillips. In "The Emerging Republican Majority," written in 1967, the year before Richard Nixon took the White House out of Democratic hands, Mr. Phillips predicted not only Mr. Nixon's victory but also the full quarter-century of Republican Presidential dominance that was to follow. The social and racial upheaval of the 1960's, Mr. Phillips wrote, would be to Democrats what the Depression was to Republicans: it would probably be a full generation before the average middle-class white voter trusted any Democrat to run the country again.
That truth, grasped so early and argued so cleanly, stands as perhaps the single most brilliant political insight of recent times. The only complication was that Mr. Phillips went beyond it to infer something more sweeping: Republican control of Congress, the states and all levels of the political system. The failure of that prediction provided ammunition to critics; it also confounded Mr. Phillips himself. At one point in the 1970's he argued that the top-to-bottom Republican majority was snatched away at the last moment by Watergate. Later he said it had been blocked by the power of the news media to control election results. Neither of those explanations was very convincing.
By the early Reagan years, however, Mr. Phillips had moved on to other grand forecasts. In "Post-Conservative America" (1982), he traced the economic frustrations of the American voter and prophesied that years of political instability would follow. Once again, Mr. Phillips demonstrated a genuine sensitivity for the middle-class American mind and political temperament. But his analysis suffered, if nothing else, from unfortunate timing. He saw chronic inflation as a scourge of modern government and the source of electoral disruption. Just as his book was appearing, inflation began a steady decline that essentially removed it as a political problem for a decade to come.
But in 1990, Mr. Phillips renewed his reputation as an astute political thinker. In "The Politics of Rich and Poor," he penetrated the veil of Reagan-Bush prosperity and showed how the previous decade had redistributed income and wealth away from middle-class and working-class families and into the bank accounts of the rich. In the years since, as recession and stagnation have settled in everywhere, much of what Mr. Phillips wrote in 1990 has become both conventional wisdom and underlying text for political debate.
Now, in "Boiling Point," Mr. Phillips has expanded on his rich-and-poor-in-the-80's thesis to explore the phenomenon of middle-class decline from the widest possible perspective, tracing not only the fat and lean decades of postwar American life but the lessons of other times and places as well: Victorian Britain, the 17th-century Netherlands, even the Spain of Philip II.
In the last 20 years, Mr. Phillips says, the American middle class has been losing cash and a great deal more. Not only has real income been falling since 1973, a point most economists are now willing to concede, but also the typical $40,000-a-year family has been the victim of a galaxy of economic changes few have bothered to add up.
What this family gained in the 1980's in lower income taxes, it lost in higher payroll taxes for Social Security and higher sales and property taxes at the state and local level. It has paid further as the real cost of services and leisure has soared: tuition, legal fees, even the price of baseball tickets and cable television. Most important, this family and others like it have been the primary victims of massive deindustrialization. The middle-class family that thrived in the 1950's and 1960's on one breadwinner's income from a high-wage manufacturing job is now forced perilously close to financial collapse as a working husband and working wife find themselves mired in dead-end service jobs or nonunion factory work that pays little more than the minimum wage.
Each of these things has been said elsewhere, but Mr. Phillips puts them together with a thoroughness that no one before him has achieved, and he delivers them in an acerbically provocative prose style. "Huge chunks of industrial America . . . had become graveyards of vocational mobility," he tells us. "In less than a generation, the average American went from being a political icon to being a fiscal milch cow."
Some of the arguments are less than precise. For example, we never learn precisely just what Mr. Phillips means by "middle class." At times, he stretches the term to include families that earn as much as $100,000 a year. At other times, he seems to include these families as part of the elite that middle-class Americans ought rightfully to resent.
But the major themes are carefully presented and convincing, and they will ring true to anyone who has troubled to read the newspaper of any major American city in the last few years. The economy of the 1990's is middle-aged fathers in Ohio and Indiana, men who used to earn good incomes at Ford or Caterpillar, saddled with low-wage jobs at Kmart or Wal-Mart that offer little comfort, satisfaction or hope of advancement. It is young mothers who commute 30 miles from one suburb to another for a pink-collar job whose wages are half eaten by child care and travel costs. It is families that scarcely see one another for days on end.
Meanwhile, Mr. Phillips tells us, the share of pretax income going to the richest 1 percent of American families rose from 8 percent to 13 percent in the dozen years from 1977 to 1989, while the effective tax rate on those same families was declining from 35.5 percent to 26.7 percent. Taken together, these facts are a powerful economic indictment, and they generate legitimate questions about when and if the nation is going to face a middle-class populist rebellion against the wealthy.
But Mr. Phillips is not content to justify such a rebellion or even to predict one. He is determined to show that it is already taking place. And here his book simply fails.
Mr. Phillips tells us, for example, that Gov. Pete Wilson of California accepted a modest 1991 increase in taxes on the highest incomes because of overwhelming popular support for a so-called soak-the-rich ballot initiative scheduled for a vote the following year. He does not tell us that a soak-the-rich measure, albeit a stronger one, did come to a statewide vote in November 1992 and was decisively defeated.
MR. PHILLIPS cites the Presidential campaign successes of both Jerry Brown and Ross Perot as signs of national populist enthusiasm, but this argument requires feats of selective memory. Mr. Brown, like the radio talk-show populists he came to resemble, aimed his attack at political elites, not economic elites. It was not Sam Walton or John Kluge that Mr. Brown ridiculed in his campaign. It was the leadership of Congress and the complacency of its incumbents. This is populism of a sort, but not the sort that Mr. Phillips claims to have discovered.
Ross Perot, with his East Texas twang and his gibes against Washington, can be said to have learned some of the lyrics of populism. One must ask, however, what sort of soak-the-rich movement would serve up as its voice of rebellion an unrepentant Texas computer billionaire preoccupied with budget deficits. In a genuine populist revolt, Mr. Perot would not be the hero. He would be one of the villains.
Then there is the question of Bill Clinton and his promise to raise the taxes of those who earn more than $200,000 a year. If it takes that much income to be rich, the fact is that there are very few rich people in the United States, and confiscating their money would do little to redistribute overall wealth. Far more telling than Mr. Clinton's willingness to tax the super-rich was his mortal fear of raising revenue from the upper middle class, the people between $100,000 and $200,000, who in any legitimate populist rebellion would be among the targets. If one has to use the Clinton campaign as evidence that 1992 was a populist political year, as Mr. Phillips does, one is on very shaky ground.
But it is not necessary to accept Mr. Phillips's strained account of the 1992 election to appreciate his book for what it is: an impressive piece of economic analysis and a troubling moral argument. The past decade has done more than enough societal damage to make populists out of those on the losing side of economic change; it simply has not made populists out of very many of them up to now. "Boiling Point" may create a few more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BOILING POINT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); FAMILY (63%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN; PHILLIPS, KEVIN RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



637 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Start Worrying, Feel Better

BYLINE: By Garry Wills; Garry Wills, adjunct professor of history at Northwestern University and author of "Lincoln at Gettysburg," is writing a book on leadership.

DATELINE: EVANSTON, Ill.

 BODY:
Two things about the President's economic program are clear. One, it cannot be done. Two, but it better be.
It cannot be done because it is both too much and too little, too much to pass and too little to solve our multiple problems. It tries to address everything, which is a prescription for addressing nothing. It equals in urgency some war measures, yet there is no war. All that, on one side of the ledger, says "impossible." But there is even more to be said on the "absolutely necessary" side of the books. 
 Enemies of democracy, from the time of Plato, have said that it must ultimately fail because it reduces its politicians to servicers of constituents' appetites, so that candidate and electorate are caught in a cycle of mutual bribery. The items on the "impossible" side of the ledger seem to confirm that indictment of popular government. Plato argued that the politician is to the statesman as a chef is to a doctor. The doctor says: "Take this medicine. It will be immediately nauseating but ultimately healing." The chef says: "Taste this. Isn't it delicious? No? Then taste this. Or this."
In our situation, there is general agreement that the deficit must be reduced by steps that will crimp our living for a while but in the long run help us all. Yet every member of the House of Representatives runs for re-election, not in the long run, but next year. These candidates shudder at the thought of facing an electorate denied what it wants at that very moment.
So we combine agreement on what needs doing, and doubt that it can ever be done. That is the real gridlock in our system. Everyone knows that steps must be taken, and soon, and drastically, on problems like these:
* The deficit is draining our economic strength, wasting our resources in interest payments, blocking more productive investment and preventing our reaction to other challenges (since we lack mobilizable cash to meet danger or seize opportunity).
* Our education system is not equipping us to stay competitive with other commercial nations; it is disabling our work force, sending money to find jobs elsewhere, making ours a service economy when the high stakes of the future are in high technology.
* Our energy consumption is inequitable in world terms, unbalancing in our own economy, hurtful to the environment, and it makes us vulnerable to the fate of our suppliers.
* The basic undergirdings of our national stock are eroding -- roads, bridges, transit systems, inner cities -- in ways that inhibit business efficiency and communal satisfaction.
* The perceived inequities of the economic structure have strained our internal accord, lessened civility and provoked despair in those left out.
* Health care costs too much and does too little, and its growing expense places cruel burdens on families, the Government and the elderly.
* America, though not in decline, has been slowed in areas where competitors most challenge our eminence.
These are not difficulties that call for a chef. Ronald Reagan and George Bush said, in an inversion of the F.D.R. maxim, "The only thing we have to worry about is worry itself." Forget the doom-sayers, the misery merchants, the root-canal doctors. Have another pastry. The American people are basically good and if left alone by government they will automatically create good schools, new roads, clean air, revived cities, less intensive oil use.
Even acknowledging the existence of problems was greeted as a return to McGovern or Carter pessimism. Politicians could not raise the T-word to constituents, or the E-word (for Entitlements), at election time (which is all the time).
If the problems cannot be addressed singly, then must they be cumulatively insurmountable? Maybe not. At a certain point, more challenging becomes less. Ours is a case where nothing can be done until it seems undoable. Only the sense of large-scale crisis can provoke people past grudging refusal to make small-scale efforts. We respond that way in war, when Bill Clinton's derided terms -- sacrifice, contribution, investment in your country, discipline -- seem natural.
We responded that way in the Depression, when Roosevelt used warlike terms, and people flew the National Recovery Administration blue eagle as a battle flag. Even the so-called public-relations aspects of the Clinton plan are important: morale is always important in a crisis.
What chance President Clinton's program has is based precisely on the fact that it attacks all the aspects of our economic trouble. Even the elements that do not go far enough in themselves lend support to other parts of the plan. The freeze on Government wages makes it easier to ask for taxes on Social Security for the well-to-do. The investments are to be judged not only as job programs but as directing money again toward infrastructure, education and technological development -- goals to be pursued in any event.
Roosevelt did not have to create a sense of crisis. Everyone knew there was a Depression. President Clinton must dramatize problems that do not go away with every slight ratcheting up of the economic indicators. He must keep reminding people how bad things are if he is to make them even a little better.
The most effective part of his speech to Congress was the closing vision of the bleak future we will have if we keep eating the pastries of politician-chefs. And, like Roosevelt, he must keep experimenting, adding new efforts, stressing the process of undoing an entire train of bad policy decisions. It is a long haul, and breakdown can occur anywhere along the way. But it better not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); BRIBERY (69%); CITY LIFE (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (50%); 

PERSON: WILLS, GARRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993



638 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON SAYS U.S. IS PLANNING AIRLIFT TO EASTERN BOSNIA

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that the United States was drawing up plans with its allies to conduct an emergency airlift of food and medicine to remote areas of eastern Bosnia and that they expect to disclose the initiative in the next few days.
"We'll probably have an announcement today for you or tomorrow," Mr. Clinton told reporters at the White House as he left for a two-day visit to California. "We're working on it. I have authorized our people to talk to the U.N. Security Council about the possibility of extra help with food and medicine for Bosnia." 
 An estimated 200,000 people, most of them Bosnian Muslims, are suffering critical shortages of supplies in towns and villages of eastern Bosnia that are besieged by Serbian forces.
 
For Remote Areas
 American officials said that the plan they are hammering out through diplomatic channels with allies, the United Nations Security Council and the parties on the ground would use transport aircraft of the United States and other nations to drop relief supplies into remote, mountainous areas of Bosnia that have not been reached by overland United Nations convoys.
The operation being planned is an "emergency effort that would supplement the overland convoys, not replace them," an Administration official said. The official made clear that the convoys are continuing. One arrived today at the eastern town of Zepa after a week of delays. [Page A8.]
The official added that while the planned air operation would not be just a one-time-only undertaking, it was not meant to be a permanent complement to the convoys. Besides providing relief aid, he said, the effort would also ideally highlight for the world the insufficient amount of aid that the Serbs are allowing into Bosnia overland and increase pressure on them to stop pilfering so much of it.
 
Symbolic Objectives
 Although the President said he would probably announce the operation by Monday, aides said later that the announcement would probably not come before Tuesday because of the sensitive technical, military and diplomatic steps that need to be coordinated first. The operation is expected to start immediately after the announcement.
The airlift would appear to have symbolic, as well as humanitarian, objectives. In the Presidential campaign last year, Mr. Clinton was critical of what he said was President Bush's passive attitude toward the fate of the beleaguered Bosnians and promised a more aggressive American role if he became President.
Since taking office, though, Mr. Clinton, heeding military advisers skeptical about getting involved in any armed operation to relieve Bosnia and a public wary of a Balkan quagmire, has opted for a very cautious diplomatic approach.
A high-profile airlift, even if limited in scope and duration, would be a way for Mr. Clinton to demonstrate an activist approach more consistent with his campaign promises. A more aggressive American relief operation might also enhance Washington's credibility at the negotiating table, where it has promised -- but has yet to demonstrate -- a more energetic effort to use diplomatic and economic sanctions to pressure the warring parties into a mutually acceptable peace settlement.
The way airdrops normally work is that food and other supplies are packed in boxes and then bundled together on huge wooden pallets, which are then dropped by parachute out the back of a transport aircraft.
The planes have to fly low enough to be sure to drop the pallets in open areas, so they do not land on people or houses. Flying that low, though, can be dangerous in a war zone, although the Serbian gunners besieging the Muslim areas do not have particularly sophisticated antiaircraft weaponry. Nevertheless, this risk was one reason that the Pentagon was initially reluctant about the operation, which was being pushed by the State Department.
But a senior Administration official said that the President is now satisfied that the operation can be conducted without much risk to American personnel or aircraft. The Administration is apparently considering some sort of airlift operation with planes other than the normally slow-flying C-130's, to limit the exposure.
The United Nations High Commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, announced last week that she was suspending aid deliveries to most of Bosnia because of interference by the warring parties.
On Friday, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali rebuked Mrs. Ogata and reversed her order. Mrs. Ogata said today in Geneva that she had received assurances from the factions that they would not harass shipments, and that full aid operations could be resumed this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA) UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLIFTS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); CIVIL WAR (66%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



639 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Voters Viewing Tax Bill, And Saying They'll Pay

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Nobody is cheering the arrival of new taxes, but many voters here say they accept what seemed so hard for voters to accept during the glory days of the 1980's: that new taxes are simply necessary.
President Clinton's appeal to patriotism and a sense of national need is not taken lightly by people like Jim Seros, a restaurateur visiting from Detroit who declares, "I know it's going to cost me a little bit, but that's O.K.," or Steve Nudelberg, a 32-year old telecommunications executive in Miami, who says, "I'm in an income bracket where it actually affects me dramatically, but I'm a firm believer that at some point somebody's going to have to sacrifice." 
 They cited the deficit, the state of the economy in general, the sense that the nation needs a basic shift in direction and that Mr. Clinton deserved a chance to lead it.
The leap of faith by the voters is even more striking because their attitudes toward Washington remain so dark, judging from interviews with more than 40 voters around South Florida. Again and again, people noted ruefully, or angrily, or suspiciously, that this was still Washington they would be sending their money off to, still the big, unpopular Federal bureaucracy. They worried that the idea of "shared sacrifice" would never quite extend to Congress, that they would get sucked in yet again to a program of tax increases and spending cuts that would never get around to the spending cuts.
This, to put it mildly, roused strong feelings. "Giving extra money to Congress is like giving extra money to someone who's already maxed out on their $3,000 credit card limit," said Michael Tabor, a 40-year-old respiratory therapist from Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Frank Skotny, a 59-year-old machine shop owner from Boston, hailed Mr. Clinton's program in one breath and fretted about Congress's sabotaging the proposed spending cuts in the next. "If it's only one-sided, then God help him and all Democrats," Mr. Skotny said. "For the next hundred years, they will never get in."
Such doubts were being stoked this weekend by that maestro of voter discontent, Ross Perot, who was in Miami (and in the local newspapers and television news) asserting that Washington should reform itself before getting additional money from the taxpayers. "I suggest that as a price for getting all these things done and all these taxes they want, we put up a 'not for sale' sign in Washington," he declared Saturday night in a speech that avoided direct attacks on Mr. Clinton but was riddled with implicit digs.
Still, in the first few days after Mr. Clinton's address to Congress, voters seemed inclined to give the man and the economic program a chance. In the inner-city neighborhood of Liberty City, William Cooper, a 23-year-old reserve police officer and security guard on duty at a government building, said with a shrug, "I voted for him because obviously I trust him."
 
Polls Find Support
 Down in the affluent shopping district of Coconut Grove, Joey Worman, 35, who owns a T-shirt business, said, "I'm going to pay more taxes, I know that; but I'm willing to pay to get out from under the deficit."
This attitude was also reflected in two national polls released this weekend, for Time/CNN and Newsweek, both of which found solid majorities supporting the Clinton plan. Representative Carrie Meek, a freshman Democrat who described her Miami-area district as primarily moderate to lower income, said of her constituents' reaction, "The consensus seemed to be we know we've got to take some heat, we've got to take some punishment, but we want to make sure we get something out of it."
Many people were reluctant to discuss in much detail how the Clinton program would affect their personal financial situation, or were still uncertain. They watched the speech on television -- some taped it, they said, to watch it later -- or they caught snippets of it on the television news. The energy tax seemed to penetrate people's consciousness the most, prompting a lot of worried talk about the price of gasoline and utility bills in general.
Jacqueline Thompson, a caseworker for the state welfare department and the mother of two, said her income was low enough that she should qualify for a new tax break but added, "It's not going to pay day care for the full year, and it's not going to pay the rent and utilities." Ms. Thompson, meanwhile, was worried about the impact of the energy tax on her commute to work.
 
Tax Increase Was Expected
 There were, not surprisingly, other reservations and fears. Carl Liggett, who retired to South Florida from New York, said he expected his taxes to go up and voiced the reflexive fear of people living on fixed incomes.
Mr. Tabor, the respiratory therapist, said somewhat philosophically: "I make over $50,000 a year, and I expect to get hit. But as soon as Clinton was elected I expected to get hit, and he's not disappointed me."
There were also voters who took up the Republican line of attack, noting that Mr. Clinton's proposed income levels for higher taxes kept getting lower and lower. Still, for many, the more relevant voice in the coming debate was Mr. Perot's. At a rally in Miami on Saturday night, Mr. Perot said he was still awaiting the details of Mr. Clinton's economic plan but proceeded to list a host of conditions that Washington should meet before getting new tax dollars, from keeping better books to slashing Congressional salaries and perks.
He also suggested that the Clinton Administration was trying to move too fast on health care. "These are folks who have never flown who are trying to fly the F-16," he said. And he told his happy audience that he was taking his message to national television again next month, with a block of time on NBC.
Mr. Perot, and the doubts he appeals to, suggest the fragility of the consensus around Mr. Clinton's plan. The grass roots may be accommodating at the moment, but it is also watchful and wired.
Ava Overstreet, who works in the telecommunications industry, was in the audience at Mr. Perot's rally the other night, and said afterward: "Since Clinton's gotten in, and I wish him all the best, I have at this point contacted my Congressman, Senator and Mr. Clinton about 10 times -- by voice, speech, telegram and letter. I think the only way these guys are going to wake up and smell the coffee is because people like me are going to sit there and hound them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I'm a firm believer that at some point somebody's going to have to sacrifice," said Steve Nudelberg, left, who sat with Joey Worman in the shopping district in Coconut Grove, Fla. "I'm going to pay more taxes, I know that; but I'm willing to pay to get out from under the deficit," Mr. Worman said. "I voted for him because obviously I trust him," said William Cooper, a security guard in Miami. Ava Overstreet, after a Perot rally in Miami, said, "I think the only way these guys are going to wake up and smell the coffee is because people like me are going to sit there and hound them." (Photographs by Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



640 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Lobbyists Hearing 'Taxes' But Don't Cry 'War' (Yet)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Understand, please, that Tom Donohue, the president and pre-eminent lobbyist for the American Trucking Associations and its 4,000 members, does not actually oppose President Clinton's package of tax increases and deficit reductions. Not even its tax on energy sources, including the diesel fuel that is the truckers' lifeblood.
"People want Bill Clinton to succeed," he said. "We're not going to fight it. We're just going to work with Congress to assure that it is fair." 
 Washington's lobbyists, who easily number in the thousands, are starting to talk, and suddenly the town has a serious echo problem.
Mr. Clinton wants to cut low-interest Federal loans to rural electric utilities. "Our guys will take their fair share, with the emphasis on the word 'fair,' says a spokeswoman for the National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association representing 1,000 utilities and 25 million customers. "We want them to look at the subsidies the rest of the utility industry gets."
Mr. Clinton wants to pare back subsidies and crop insurance for farmers. "We feel a freeze in all Government spending is the best way to be fair," says a lobbyist at the American Farm Bureau Federation with four million members. "Everyone should share equally in the burden."
Mr. Clinton wants to stimulate the economy, which could increase mortgage rates, and he wants to scale back guaranteed benefits like the low-interest home loans for veterans. "Deficit reduction is something we feel strongly about," says the chief lobbyist for the National Association of Realtors with its 800,000 members. "The question is not having it apply disproportionately to real estate."
"Not that we don't expect to pay our fair share," he adds.
For now, this is Washington lobbying on the Clinton economic package: scores of biplanes swarming about King Kong, too far away to fire effectively and too wary of joining the battle lest they be swatted down in flames. The lobbyists themselves say that is a measure of uncertainty, both about the actual merit of the President's proposals and about the extent of public support for them.
"It's early," said one, Nicholas E. Calio, who was a important lobbyist in supporting the last tax-law overhaul in 1986. "There is a calculation right now that it's better to be muted, even supportive, in the hope that you can maximize your bargaining position later."
The truth, as spoken by a score or more of industry executives and lobbyists in interviews, is that almost no one much likes what Mr. Clinton has proposed. But few have concluded that their unhappiness rises to a level that demands all-out opposition.
 
Courting by White House
 None have decided yet to mount a full-scale campaign to influence Congress, or a public-relations offensive that might sway the opinion of White House officials like the budget director, Leon E. Panetta, or Congress. Rather, they say, they will probably chip at the margins, trying to alter provisions that hurt them most without damaging the package's one indisputable good: a smaller deficit.
To some extent, the White House is even encouraging that approach. It called in large schools of lobbyists for briefings, telling them that the crucial fine print of the economic proposals remains to be written and that their suggestions are still welcome.
"Clinton had our legislative group in for an hour two weeks ago, and we saw Panetta today," said John Rother, director of legislation for the American Association of Retired Persons, at 34 million members strong, one of the nation's most muscular interest groups.
"They've gone out of their way to make sure we're feeling included. We may not like it, but at least they've heard our concerns."
Lobbyists' concerns are as varied as their clients. But clearly, business interests most detest Mr. Clinton's energy tax, which would raise the cost of manufacturing and distributing products; his proposed two percentage point increase in corporate tax rates, to 36 percent, and what they say are his comparatively small cuts in Federal programs.
Farmers and rural groups like the electric utilities, and energy-intensive businesses like trucking and heavy manufacturing, are most adamant about changing the energy tax. The Amoco Corporation, the Chicago-based oil company, said it hoped to persuade the industry's Washington trade group, the America Petroleum Institute, to lead a crusade against the energy tax, said Ted Eck, the company's chief economist. Mr. Eck said companies whose energy costs exceeded 5 percent of their total expenses "could be mortally wounded" by the tax, and he noted that such energy costs for some industries, like aluminum and cement making, already accounted for about a fifth of their outlays.
By comparison, some less energy-intensive industries and trade groups, like wholesalers, appear more concerned about the cumulative impact on their profits of the entire Clinton program, from the corporate tax increase to potential new taxes for health care to the limited sweep of the President proposed investment tax credit.
Of major lobbying groups interviewed, three of the largest -- the retired persons' association, the real estate agents and the National Auto Dealers Association -- expressed the fewest reservations about Mr. Clinton's proposals. Officials for the real estate agents and the retired persons groups suggested that they might be persuaded to lobby in behalf of the plan if some of their biggest concerns, like health care changes and the inflationary effects of the program, are mollified.
Only one group of any size appears so far to have taken dead aim at the heart of Mr. Clinton's plan, but that group is a potentially powerful one. Called the Tax Reform Action Coalition, it is an amalgam of hundreds of big companies and trade groups and is led by some of the nation's most influential business voices. The group helped push the 1986 overhaul of tax laws through Congress.
That change successfully traded away tax shelters, loopholes and generous deductions in exchange for lower, flatter and more equitable tax rates that applied to almost everyone. And now that Mr. Clinton proposes raising rates again its members are fighting mad.
"TRAC wants meaningful deficit reduction, too," said Alan Kranowitz, the group's executive secretary. "But I suspect there will be a solid voice around the table that the White House ought to cut out the economic stimulus part of the package and leave corporate rates where they are, and find some other spending cuts to offset the 36 percent rate for individuals."
At the same time, both Mr. Kranowitz and many others expressed what seemed a sincere willingness to accept limited tax increases and larger cuts in benefits for a better-balanced Federal budget. This stems partly from the conviction that the Democratic Congress will inevitably send tax legislation and budget cuts to Mr. Clinton's desk.
But the relative modesty of Mr. Clinton's proposed spending cuts is tempering the enthusiasm of business for the program.
"Given the fact that this plan is less than one-for-one in spending versus tax increases and Congress's history of accepting the sugar but not the vinegar, the question is, 'Can this stick? What does this really mean for long-term America?' " said Michael C. Maibach, director of government affairs at the Intel Corporation, the computer chip maker.
He added: "You can be a first-class passenger on an airplane. But if the pilot doesn't know what he's doing, the whole plane goes down."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "People want Bill Clinton to succeed," said Tom Donohue, president and pre-eminent lobbyist for the American Trucking Associations and its 4,000 members. (Vincent Ricardel for The New York Times)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (91%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (91%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (55%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (91%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (91%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (55%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PUBLIC OPINION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); VETERANS LOANS (69%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); DIESEL FUEL (57%); CROP INSURANCE (52%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



641 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: Japan's 'Recycling' of Its Trade Surplus Declines

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Even as Japan racks up the largest trade surpluses in history, the flood of international investments that the surpluses were supposed to finance have declined sharply in recent years, undercutting one of the Government's justifications for the imbalances.
The Japanese Government has taken a variety of steps to blunt criticism over the overwhelming size of its surpluses. One of the more important of these, during the 1980's, was the development of multibillion-dollar programs to "recycle" some of the money to needy areas of the global economy. The Government sent funds to areas of the developing world that were starved for capital and encouraged Japanese corporations to make productive investments in the United States and Europe. 
 This money paid for everything from foreign aid projects in Thailand to Honda auto plants in Ohio and securities purchases on Wall Street, prompting the Government to argue that they were a beneficial side effect of the country's trade surpluses.
But that has changed, with surprising speed. The waves of capital that Japan sent washing over the world have contracted to a trickle, leaving a residue of mistrust among some foreign officials and analysts. There has been some flow out of Japan of what is called short-term capital, but economists say that is merely a consequence of Japanese banks' paying down their short-term borrowings in New York and other wholesale banking markets, not the kind of productive investments the Japanese had promised.
The more important long-term capital investments are staying in Japan's recession-battered economy, where they are being used to shore up the nation's troubled banking industry, hold together a severely depressed real estate market and repay some of the reckless borrowing that took place during Japan's boom of the 1980's. Several trillion dollars of Japan's wealth has also been wiped out by the three-year-old depression in the Tokyo stock market.
Long-term Japanese investments overseas peaked at $136.5 billion in 1987, then turned into a trickle of less than $30 billion last year. They are expected to remain depressed this year. In comparison, Japan's trade surplus hit a record $132.6 billion in 1992, more than double the level of two years earlier. The surplus with the United States came to nearly $45 billion, and economists are projecting further growth this year.
The Government's official recycling program, first announced with great fanfare in 1987, sent $65 billion abroad in the five years that ended last June. But there is no longer any official program in place.
 
From Corporate Japan
 In those years, the bulk of the money sent overseas, by far, came from corporate Japan. But with a deep recession forcing manufacturers, insurance companies and banks to tighten their belts, these companies are marshaling their capital at home. Banks, for instance, have had to take large write-offs for bad loans, and are having to raise billions of dollars of fresh funds to meet rules specifying the minimum levels of capital they must keep on hand.
Manufacturers are suffering slowdowns of sales both at home and abroad, so they are building fewer plants and reducing spending on research and development. In many instances they are reporting losses, so some of their capital is being eaten up by sustaining their bloated production bases. Even if they are helping to generate the country's huge surpluses, the manufacturers overbuilt during the 1980's. The excess factory capacity is now an expensive liability.
Government pressure on Japanese companies and financial institutions to send capital abroad has also stopped. The Finance Ministry has halted a campaign that had encouraged some of the foreign investment.
Nonetheless, Japan appears ready to resort to recycling again to deflect political pressure from the United States and other countries. Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa has indicated in recent days that he will announce a new program at the summit meeting of the leaders of the Group of Seven industrialized nations, to be held here in July.
But most economists believe that even with a new Government program, which some officials have said will involve $130 billion within five years, the flow of investments abroad will not match that of the 1980's.
"Recycling is really a smokescreen," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, which has ties to some officials in the Clinton Administration. "They look too much like an excuse not to make the adjustments in the trade surplus that are necessary. The real point is that we have to get the surpluses down, not recycle them."
The concept of recycling surpluses is extremely complex. In a world where borders are open to flows of capital, the surpluses that accumulate in one country automatically find their way into the global financial system through a variety of means -- as long-term investments, short-term bank deposits, grants and loans, and purchases of securities, commodities and the like. Thus some economists say an active recycling program is superfluous.
But many Japanese and some foreign economists argue that certain kinds of investments are more productive than others, and that these should be encouraged. They regard long-term investments as a more stable and productive source of capital than short-term flows. They also say that the free markets do not always direct the capital to areas of the world that need it, like underdeveloped nations.
"Short-term capital outflows and long-term outflows are not the same," argued Makoto Utsumi, a former senior Finance Ministry official who was instrumental in designing the programs. "Our duty is to encourage long-term flows, which have certain advantages, and to direct those funds to the areas that really need them."
For Japan's trading partners, the question remains whether the country should be doling out money through recycling programs, or whether a more important priority would be to bring the country's trade into balance by opening its markets and reinvigorating its economy. It is a question the Clinton Administration will have to ponder.
Unlike the recycling of OPEC's "petrodollars" in the 1970's, which aimed to send capital from oil-exporting states to the parts of the third world that were hurt the most by sharp increases in crude oil prices, Japan's recycling programs had no such urgency. They were intended to demonstrate, in part, that Japan's surpluses were ultimately beneficial. Several billion dollars, for instance, were used to support the Brady Plan, a program for helping resolve the third world debt crisis.
Tetsuo Kondo, a member of Parliament and former Minister for Economic Planning, gave speeches during the late 1980's describing Japan's surpluses as "appropriate" and "necessary."
Mitsuhide Yamaguchi, governor of the Export-Import Bank of Japan, a Government institution involved in the recycling program, said that at least some of the Group of Seven nations had to generate trade surpluses so that the group could provide aid to less-developed countries. Only Japan is now running a trade surplus among the group, he said, which also includes the United States, Canada, Germany, France, Britain and Italy.
Japan's recycling policy sent so much government and private capital abroad that the outflow of long-term investments exceeded Japan's accumulated trade surpluses. The outflow of long-term investments totaled $552.6 billion from the beginning of 1985 through the end of 1989. During those same five years, Japan had total trade surpluses of $417 billion.
 
Outflows Have Fallen
 Yet now the flows of capital from Japan have been drying up. Japanese corporations made $15 billion in corporate acquisitions abroad in 1989, buying everything from Columbia Pictures to a controlling interest in Rockefeller Center. Last year, the figure plummeted to $2.4 billion, according to Ulmer Brothers, a New York investment bank that tracks this data.
Some financial experts say one problem is that the Government's recycling efforts are too conservative to have a big impact on the world economy.
"The real way to recycle would be to deregulate their markets at home to make for stronger domestic demand and get the surpluses down," said David C. Mulford, the vice chairman of CS First Boston in New York, who until recently was a senior Treasury Department official.
Even in Japan there is some skepticism about the effectiveness of the recycling programs.
"It is generally desirable for Japan to encourage a large outflow of long-term capital," said Kazuo Ogura, the Deputy Foreign Minister for Economic Affairs. "But frankly speaking, there were some positive aspects and there were some areas that were short of our expectations. We had wanted the Government money to prime the pump in the developing countries, to attract more private capital. But it did not generate as much private investment as we had expected."
Many experts are also reconsidering Japan's financial recycling as they learn more about what it entailed. A total of $12.5 billion of the Government's $65 billion program consisted of routine foreign aid. That money, presumably, would have been provided regardless of whether Japan had big surpluses. (The United States spent tens of billions of dollars on foreign aid in the 1980's in spite of its trade deficits.)
Several billion dollars of the Japanese money consisted of commercial bank loans at commercial rates. And $13 billion was private capital that multinational bodies like the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank raised by selling bonds to private investors in Japan.
Government policies have also inhibited the flow of money to several troubled regions of the world. Japan is still refusing to provide substantial financial assistance to Russia, for instance, because of a territorial dispute lingering from World War II.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Japan's Capital Flows" shows yearly change in the Japanese-owned assets outside Japan from 1982 to 1992. (Source: Bank of Japan)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PUBLIC OPINION GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANK FAILURES (65%); WHOLESALE BANKING (65%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); INSURANCE (64%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



642 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Voters in a survey say more taxes are simply necessary. Meanwhile, Washington lobbyists are wary of the Clinton package, reluctant to join the battle lest they be swatted down. [Page A1.]
The net increase in jobs from the free trade pact will evaporate after 15 to 20 years, according to two academic experts on trade whose forecasts of short-term job gains were heavily cited last year by the Bush Administration. [D1.] 
 Workers' compensation claims often soar when plants close, a problem widely reported by employers and insurance companies but little studied so far on a national scale. [D1.]
An energy tax would cost more than Clinton acknowledges, costing a typical family as much as $500 a year instead of $320, industry officials and other specialists contended. [A14.]
Debate over the Clinton plan centers on the ratio of proposed tax increases to proposed spending cuts. Republicans say the plan has up to $18 in new taxes for every $1 in spending cuts. Clinton aides predict $1 in new taxes for each $1 in spending cuts. [A14.]
 
International
Japan's justification for trade surpluses has been undercut by the sharp decline in international Japanese investments that the surpluses were supposed to finance. The waves of Japan's global capital have contracted to a trickle. [A1.]
Mexico is building an interstate highway system to speed goods and passenger transit. But few trucks or cars are using the roads, because the tolls are among the highest in the world. [D1.]
Canada has succeeded in getting drug companies to restrain drug prices while also encouraging the companies to increase their research budget, a Congressional report has found. [A11.]
 
The Media Business
CBS has bought the Ed Sullivan Theater on Broadway to serve as the new studio for David Letterman, assuring that his late-night show will stay in New York after he switches networks. [A1.]
Dozens of companies have stopped advertising on "Donahue." A Fort Worth dentist who was offended by the show's content, and started a campaign against it, considers himself responsible. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
The New York Post said it had found a powerful backer in the real estate developer Abe J. Hirschfeld, who invested $3 million and was named chairman. [B1.]
Taster's Choice ads have become a British national obsession, and now the basis for a best-selling paperback. [D5.]
Three new weeklies are part of a German media explosion. Two are newspapers. But the most impressive is Focus, an American-style news magazine based in Munich. [D6.]
The secret of Texas Monthly's success? The magazine's consuming, if not exactly reverent, interest in all things Texan, and Texans' consuming interest in themselves. [D6.]
Presenting the recipe for a popular Madison Avenue dish, which is listed on the menu as the Modish Campaign for Pricey Apparel. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Municipal bond prices have rallied on the President's plan to impose higher taxes and cut the deficit. But analysts caution that the rush to the tax shelters has created a greater demand than the supply can accommodate. Robert Hurtado: Credit Markets. [D1.]
A food-freezing counterpart to the microwave oven is the vision that inspires Uwe (Rocky) Rockenfeller, an inventor in Boulder City, Nev. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
Uncertainties continue to dog Glaxo Holdings, despite a recent earnings report that exceeded analysts' projections. Richard W. Stevenson: Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (76%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); DRUG PRICES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); APPOINTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



643 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Canada Is Found to Lead U.S. In Holding Drug Prices Down

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Canada has been successful in the last five years in getting drug companies to hold back rising drug prices while also getting them to increase their spending on research, a Congressional report finds.
The report, by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, suggests that the United States consider establishing a board to review drug prices similar to the one in Canada. 
 "Canadian experience shows that a drug-price review board can restrain prescription drug prices," the accounting office report said. "Relative to U.S. drug prices, the Canadian prices of some drugs, subject to board review, were on average one-third lower than had there been no board."
The report is to be released Monday at a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and the Environment. It is to be the opening salvo an effort by both the White House and the Democratic Congress to rein in rapidly rising drug prices in the United States.
On Wednesday, the Senate Special Committee on Aging will hold its own hearing on the issue. And other committees will be holding hearings over the next few months as part of an overall campaign for changes in the health-care system. The idea, Congressional aides say, is to keep the public spotlight, and pressure, on drug companies, doctors and insurance companies.
 
Finding 'Excessive Prices'
 Canada established its Patented Medicine Prices Review Board in 1987, with the power to investigate drug prices, get confidential price information from drug companies, and pull their patent rights if they fail to accede to the board's requests to reduce what it calls "excessive prices."
The Canadian board is one part of that nation's attempt to control drug prices, an effort that also includes requiring drug companies to negotiate with provincial officials on drug prices and federal rules that promote the sales of generic equivalents of brand name drugs. The board, which has 35 employees, did not try to control nonprescription drug prices, or the price of drugs when they were first introduced.
The board determined that a drug price was "excessive" if its cost per day or per treatment was above the maximum for comparable drugs or treatments. And price increases were found unacceptable by the board when they increased faster than the consumer price index in Canada.
The accounting office is expected to testify about a report, released last fall, in which it found that drug prices in Canada were more than 40 percent lower than in the United States.
In the United States, drug prices have been rising at a rate several times higher that of the consumer price index. But last year the price increases were not as high, said Gerald Mossinghoff, president of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. While inflation was running about 3 percent, drug prices rose 9.5 percent in 1989, he said. But by 1991, price increases were 7.8 percent, and he said that in the past 12 months the increases have been less than double the rate of inflation in the rest of society -- or about 5.1 percent.
Jeff Warren, a spokesman for the association, acknowledged that drug prices were higher in the United States. But he said profits in the drug industry could not be compared to other industries that "just stamp out their products over and over."
"Pharmaceuticals are a high risk, research-intensive industry," he said. Profits are about five times higher in the drug industry than in others, but Mr. Warren said they were only two percent higher than comparable "high risk" industries like high-technology.
He said the General Accounting Office made a false comparison when it looked at the United States and Canada because the American industry had succeeded in bringing many innovative products to market, but the Canadian drug industry "has produced virtually no important new drugs."
Also at the hearing on Monday, Ronald Pollack, director of Families USA, a Washington health-care reform advocacy group, will testify that "while the Consumer Price Index increased only 21 percent from 1985 to 1991, prescription drug prices rose 66 percent," according to his prepared statement. "The average price of the 20 most frequently prescribed drugs increased 79 percent over the same period."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; RESEARCH DRUG PRICES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (73%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); HEALTH CARE (66%); PATENTS (64%); AGING (52%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



644 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Seeing Figures, 2 Sides Calculate Clinton's Math

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Much of the Congressional battle about President Clinton's economic package could come down to a duel over algebra: the ratio of proposed tax increases to proposed spending cuts.
Republican mathematicians attack the President's plan as a tax-and-spend scheme, asserting that it includes $1.75 to $18 in tax increases for every dollar in spending cuts. Mr. Clinton's number crunchers respond that it is a prudent, balanced plan, with one dollar in revenue tax increases for each dollar in spending cuts. 
 Which side is right in this battle of the calculators?
The answer, in the never-never land of American politics, is that both sides are, depending on how one cuts the deck, what time period is used and how one defines what is a spending cut and what is a tax increase.
 
Fuzziness on Both Sides
 Although both sides' arguments include some haze and fudging, a few things are clear. In proposing to cut the 1997 budget deficit by $140 billion, the Clinton Administration has fallen short of its goal if cutting two dollars in spending for every dollar in tax increases. As for the Republicans, while they insist that more spending cuts are in order, they have yet to supply the details.
Leon E. Panetta, the White House budget director, says the Administration has proposed $246 billion in revenue increases and $247 billion in spending cuts from the fiscal years 1994 to 1997. That, of course, produces a 1-to-1 ratio.
Not so fast, the Republicans say. Those are gross numbers, calculated before the Administration includes its $169 billion "investment" plan, which aims to improve education and job training as well as highways and other public works. Administration officials say this $169 billion should not be looked at as just another type of spending that will be frittered away; they say it is investment in building a more productive economy.
The plan includes $109 billion in increased spending from 1994 to 1997, and $60 billion in tax incentives -- reduced taxes for corporations to encourage them to expand and invest. Once those numbers are factored in, there are $138 billion in net spending cuts and $186 billion in net tax increases. That produces a ratio of one dollar in spending cuts for each $1.35 in tax increases.
"That is 76 cents in cuts for every $1 in taxes, and I don't know how that's going to help the American economy," said Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico.
 
Benefits or Tax?
 But some Republicans say the picture is far worse than that. The Republicans assert that the Administration is pulling another fast one by counting its proposal to tax 85 percent of Social Security benefits, up from 50 percent current, as a spending cut rather than a tax increase.
The Administration counters that the Social Security change, which would save $21 billion over four years, should be counted as a benefit or spending cut because the Government is merely taking away with one hand some of what it gave with the other. A decade ago President Ronald Reagan called his decision to tax Social Security benefits a benefit cutback, the Democrats note, and the Republicans did not quarrel with that classification.
Regardless of who is right on that point, if this $21 billion is counted as a tax increase, as the Republicans contend, then the Administration is proposing $207 in net revenue increases and $117 billion in net spending cuts. That produces a ratio of one dollar in spending cuts for each $1.77 in revenue increases.
Representative John R. Kasich, a Ohio Republican who is the ranking minority member of the House Budget Committee, cuts the deck another way and finds even more to complain about.
Using Mr. Kasich's computations, for the fiscal year 1994, the plan calls for $2 billion in spending cuts, after factoring in $15 billion in spending on investment and short-term stimulus. That same year, the plan provides for a net revenue increase of $36 billion. Thus, Mr. Kasich sometimes talks of a ratio of $18 in revenue increases for each dollar in spending cuts.
 
Looking at 1998
 In the Republican view, over 1994 and 1995, the program calls for $20 billion in spending cuts and $76 billion in revenue increases. That means that for each one dollar in spending cuts, there is almost $4 in tax increases.
Defending the Administration, Mr. Panetta argues that it is fairer either to look at the whole package over four years or to look at it when all the spending cuts and tax increases are phased in. That means 1997. Counting Social Security changes as a spending cut, he notes that for fiscal year 1997 the plan calls for $112 billion in spending cuts and $83 billion in revenue increases. That translates into 74 cents in tax increases for every dollar in spending cuts.
Appearing today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Mr. Panetta said, "What you have is a situation when you get to '97, where you do have almost 60 percent spending cuts versus 40 percent tax increases, and as you continue beyond, because the spending cuts are permanent, you're going to see even greater spending cuts versus revenue."
In an appearance today on the ABC News program "This Week," Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said it would be difficult for Congress to finish action on the package before July. As a result, he said, the proposed tax increases might take effect July 1 and not be retroactive to Jan. 1, as the President has proposed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



645 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Clinton's Point Men Face Doubts About Their Edge

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
After the fall of Speaker Jim Wright, an arm-twister who alienated many lawmakers, House Democrats looked for integrity, calm and conciliation. They turned to Thomas S. Foley and Richard A. Gephardt.
The two leaders buried the poisons of the Wright era, but now they face a very different and bigger challenge: how to steer the biggest legislative package to come through the House since Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program in the 1960's. 
 In an interview on Friday, Mr. Foley predicted that the House Democrats were ready "to pass a strong, bold program" without heavy-handed politicking from him or Mr. Gephardt. While conceding that lawmakers would make some changes in President Clinton's budget package, he said, "The goals of creating jobs, health-care reform and deficit reduction I think will be accomplished."
But some House Democrats express doubts, noting that the very attributes for which Mr. Foley and Mr. Gephardt were chosen three years ago now look more like liabilities. Many Democrats wonder whether their leadership has the muscle and calluses to drive the deals and resist the armies of lobbyists. With near unanimous opposition developing among House Republicans, the leaders will need to persuade the vast majority of House Democrats to cast tough votes for tax increases and cuts in programs that benefit their districts.
 
2 Temperate Men
 In Mr. Foley, the genteel son of a judge, Democrats selected a seasoned lawmaker with a taste for classical music, gold stick collar pins and folded white handkerchiefs peeking from his jacket pocket. As Speaker of the House, he supplied a nonpartisan patina to his management of an institution whose reputation needed a shine.
And in choosing Mr. Gephardt as majority leader, the Democrats found another temperate politician known more for patience than vision. An avid baseball fan -- his team is the St. Louis Cardinals -- Mr. Gephardt appealed to younger suburban voters and blue-collar workers that the Democratic Party needed to woo back into the fold when he ran his credible campaign early in the 1988 Presidential primaries.
 
Letting Things Get Messy
 The doubts swirling around Mr. Foley, and to a lesser extent Mr. Gephardt, began to emerge during last year's long-running House bank scandal, when they were repeatedly outmaneuvered by the gunslinging Republicans. Suddenly, many Democrats waxed nostalgic for Mr. Wright.
"I'm constantly charged by more partisan Democrats of not being sufficiently tough, of not bashing either President Bush or the Republican leadership," the 62-year-old Mr. Foley acknowledged. But he suggested that with the election of a Democratic President gridlock would end and the leaders would become agents of unity rather than opposition.
Mr. Gephardt, 52, predicted in a separate interview that "the test for the two of us is probably going to be unseen," mediating the give-and-take between the White House and House members. "We lived through the Carter period, and we remember the failures we suffered because there was a lack of attention to negotiation" before legislation was introduced, he said.
Making a similar point, Mr. Foley said he and the majority leader were "going into a new gear."
But the new gear looked like the old the other night when the leaders tried to solve one problem, only to let another get out of control.
Mr. Foley had summoned Mr. Gephardt and other leaders to his office to plot a last-ditch effort to stop junior Democrats from teaming up with the Republicans to abolish four House select committees. The insurgent Democrats called on Mr. Foley to join the cost-cutting effort, but the Speaker decided to risk an embarrassing defeat rather than abandon four chairmen who supported him last year when others in the caucus were plotting to replace him.
While reviewing their options, the leaders noticed on Mr. Foley's television that down on the floor a vote was spiraling out of control in favor of a Republican amendment to the family leave bill. The amendment was trivial, but the leaders wanted to avoid defeats, no matter how small.
"It was grab-your-coat-and-run time," said Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado, who watched the leaders scurry for the door. But Mr. Foley reached the chamber too late. The Republican measure squeaked by 223 to 209 with the votes of several conservative Democrats.
 
'No Sense of Fear'
 The amendment was eventually killed in the Senate, but the defeat belied the conventional wisdom that the House, with its nearly 3-to-2 Democratic majority, will be Mr. Clinton's dependable rear guard. The next day, middle-ranking Democrats grumbled to Mr. Gephardt that the floor defeat, along with a series of recent leadership retreats on rule changes, left an impression of disarray that invited more challenges.
"Can Foley and Gephardt deliver?" asked Representative Timothy J. Penny, a conservative Democrat from Minnesota who frequently deserts the leadership. "I don't know, because it means confronting the power centers in the caucus."
Mr. Penny complained that Democratic committee leaders were already angling to gain more money for housing, education, transportation and public works, at a more vigorous pace than they did when a Republican White House promised to veto such spending. While Mr. Foley and Mr. Gephardt are calling on them to heed Mr. Clinton's call for austerity, Mr. Penny said, "There is no sense of fear of retaliation or of any price to pay for bucking the leadership."
Representative Jose E. Serrano, a liberal Democrat from the South Bronx, said he wished the leaders would demand more fealty for the good of the party. "Here, nobody tells you to do anything," he said. "Every once in a while you'd like them to call and say, 'Guys, here's the agenda.' "
 
Dependence on Clinton
 Mr. Foley responded to the criticism by saying: "You don't get support for these programs by routine arm-twisting. It's mythical to think members can be forced to do something they don't want to do."
Senior members are grumbling about proposed restrictions on campaign financing, which they say could threaten Democratic control of the House. Liberals and conservatives are badly split over what kind of health-care insurance plan should be passed. And influential conservatives are complaining that Mr. Clinton's budget package is too heavy on taxes and too light on budget cuts.
The matter of Mr. Foley's and Mr. Gephardt's effectiveness may be resolved more by Mr. Clinton's performance than anything the House leaders do. Should the President rally the country behind him, the two House leaders may be able to unite the fractious Democratic caucus after all.
Mr. Gephardt is widely respected for his astonishing patience. He is a schmoozer who believes that the House Democratic caucus can coalesce if members feel consulted and part of a larger cause. Mr. Foley can be just as persuasive in one-on-one meetings, but he is much criticized for his inclination to insularity, a trait that got him into trouble last year, when he let public disgust over representatives' overdrafts ripen into outrage before he ordered the House bank closed.
 
Rifts in the Partnership
 Representatives and senior aides said the Foley-Gephardt relationship came under serious strain during the bank affair, which revealed Mr. Foley's weaknesses: his failure to anticipate political problems, his aloofness and perhaps most important, his aversion to conflict. Mr. Gephardt did not take up the leadership slack, the officials said, because he resented the Speaker's neglect to consult with him until the grenades had already exploded.
Communications between the two leaders broke down again early this year when Mr. Foley gave his private consent to President George Bush's Iran-contra pardon of former Defense Secretary Casper W. Weinberger without speaking first to Mr. Gephardt, who publicly criticized the pardon.
But colleagues say the two House leaders have patched things up, andMr. Foley now says he regrets he did not close the bank and consult with Mr. Gephardt sooner. "I wasn't as assiduous in drawing everybody immediately to the controversy as I should have been," he said. "I didn't happen to foresee the political use of it that would be made by the Republicans and the reaction of the press."
A photograph that hangs in the majority leader's office displays a mirthful Speaker Foley watching Mr. Gephardt rear back to throw the first ball at a St. Louis Cardinals game. The image of the two hail-fellows straddling the pitching mound is one both Mr. Foley and Mr. Gephardt now carefully cultivate, and it is also a scene that roughly approximates what President Clinton expects of them: the two enjoying a moment of applause from fans who save their heartiest cheers for Ozzie Smith.
 
A Lack of Belligerence
 Defenders of Mr. Foley and Mr. Gephardt note that they are loyal team players with egos firmly in check. They maintain that many Democrats are more likely to talk about hard-nosed leadership than to follow it. And they say the two leaders, like the new President, have demonstrated a willingness to challenge entrenched party interests for the sake of good government.
Mr. Foley built his House career by leading a series of battles against secrecy and seniority in the 1970's, in effect modifying the very powers he would probably find useful today. True to his reformist roots, he is a booster of Mr. Clinton's pledge to rejigger campaign finance laws. At his best, he is capable of demonstrating political courage, as when he stood firm in 1989 against a constitutional amendment against flag burning that he viewed as an infringement on freedom of speech.
But more often, Mr. Foley seems more like a counselor to the king than the king himself. It is rare that he takes a lesson from Machiavelli, as when he removed Representative Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma as chairman of the Intelligence Committee last month for plotting against him. Even then, Mr. Foley described Mr. McCurdy's removal as a routine job rotation.
"I wish he was more belligerent," said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, a Foley supporter.
Mr. Gephardt is more of a street fighter. He has a flair for populist oratory, although he has also been at the cutting edge of neoliberal Democratic rethinking since he helped found the Democratic Leadership Council in 1984. His power base centers on 25 young, middle-ranking moderate Democrats who challenge the liberal orthodoxy.
 
Danger of Looking Dumb
 At the 1990 budget talks he was instrumental in cornering Mr. Bush into breaking his "no new taxes" pledge. Later, Mr. Gephardt became one of the party's most effective spokesmen, opposing Mr. Bush when he was viewed as invincible.
But like Mr. Clinton, the majority leader is sometimes criticized for shifting on issues. All last year, he sought to reach a consensus among House Democrats on health care, but he neglected to design a plan for members to rally around. At a caucus meeting in July, Mr. Gephardt vented his frustrations at the split between conservatives who want to tinker with the existing system and liberals who favor a radical move toward a Canadian-style single-payer system.
"I do not want to get out here on the floor discombobulated, disorganized, not knowing what in the world we are doing, and look foolish at the end of the day," he told the caucus, in effect throwing up his hands. "I would rather do nothing than come out here and look dumb, dumber than we will look if we have nothing to say."
 
Thomas S. Foley
 
Born: March 6, 1929, Spokane, Wash.
 
Hometown: Spokane.
 
Education: Gonzaga High School; B.A., University of Washington; LL.B., University of Washington Law School.
 
Career Highlights: 1958-60, Spokane County deputy prosecuting attorney and instructor, Gonzaga University School of Law; 1960-61, Assistant Attorney General of Washington; 1961-63, assistant chief clerk and special counsel, U.S. Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs; 1964, elected to the House; 1980, appointed House Majority Whip; 1986, elected House Majority Leader; 1989, elected Speaker of the House.
 
Family: Married to Heather Strachan; no children.
 
Hobbies: Listening to classical music; reading; daily workouts; training in the Korean martial art tae kwon do.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The goals of creating jobs, health-care reform and deficit reduction I think will be accomplished," said Speaker Thomas S. Foley. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); Richard A. Gephardt, House majority leader, predicted that "the test for the two of us is probably going to be unseen" -- mediating the give-and-take between the White House and the House. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); SCANDALS (73%); BASEBALL (67%); SUBURBS (65%); SPORTS FANS (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) ; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); FOLEY, THOMAS S (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) JAMES F WRIGHT (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



646 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Job Gains Discounted

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
The two most influential academic experts on the North American Free Trade Agreement, whose forecasts of short-term job gains were heavily cited by the Bush Administration last year, have concluded that any net increase in job gains would evaporate after 15 to 20 years.
The two experts, Gary C. Hufbauer and Jeffrey J. Schott, who are both senior fellows at the Institute for International Economics here, have not included this conclusion in their new book on the pact, although they do mention that the short-term gains may not be permanent. 
 Mr. Schott said the long-term estimate was omitted because it relied on many complicated assumptions and because any economic forecast over such a long period was unreliable. Mr. Hufbauer also said the long-term assessment was omitted because the book was too long and the two men were in a rush to publish it. The book also mentions that the agreement's long-term effect on jobs is insignificant compared with the effect of broader economic trends.
While Bush officials relied extensively on the Hufbauer-Schott data, the Clinton Administration, which has endorsed the pact contingent on completion of three supplemental agreements with Mexico, does not cite them.
 
Forecasts 175,000 Jobs by 1995
 The book, "NAFTA: An Assessment" (Institute for International Economics), was released on Wednesday. It repeated, with little change, the two men's forecast last year that using 1990 job figures as a base the pact would produce a net gain of about 175,000 jobs in the United States by 1995.
The long-term conclusion came to light because Mr. Hufbauer appeared on a panel of trade experts last month at a luncheon organized by the Women's National Democratic Club. He distributed what was then a preliminary table from the book estimating that increased trade from the pact would provide jobs for 318,600 Americans by the year 2010 and that these workers would be producing goods for extra exports to Mexico that would not be possible without the reduction of trade barriers provided by the pact.
But the same table indicated that the agreement would also displace 324,000 jobs in the United States, as imports from Mexico replaced products made less efficiently by American factories, for a net loss of 5,400 jobs.
Mr. Schott said the table was created only to analyze the effects of the pact on income distribution, not on overall employment, and had been used to determine that low-skilled workers and highly skilled workers would be equally affected by the agreement. He said he and Mr. Hufbauer had tried to figure out the effects on employment by industry if exports and imports each increased by $30 billion, roughly doubling their level in 1990.
The use of a $30 billion figure was arbitrary and not based on any computer modeling, Mr. Schott said.
Mr. Hufbauer said the forecast of net job gains over five years assumed there would be a large American trade surplus with Mexico in 1995. The assessment of a tiny net job loss over the next two decades, he said, was based on the assumptions that Mexico's heavy dependence on foreign investment, in the form of American factory equipment and other American exports, would fade as Mexico's economy grew and that imports and exports would be roughly balanced within 20 years.
Most economists strongly support free trade because it encourages countries to specialize in the goods that they make most efficiently, exporting these goods in exchange for imports of other goods that are more efficiently made elsewhere.
But Mr. Hufbauer said that in the case of the United States and Mexico, these efficiencies would actually be very small because the United States already has such low trade barriers to imports from Mexico. The short-term job gain would come from a temporary American trade surplus with Mexico, he said.
 
'Politically Inconvenient'
 Thea M. Lee, an international trade economist at the Economic Policy Institute who appeared on the panel last month with Mr. Hufbauer, said she saved a copy of the preliminary table. "I was astonished that it wasn't in the actual book, and I was disappointed," she said.
"It looked like a decision to excise a politically inconvenient section instead of intellectually facing up to it."
Mr. Hufbauer said that he and Mr. Schott had not intended to present a biased view, but that on reflection he believed they should have included the long-term assessment in their new book. "We should have kept in the long-term scenario," he said, but added that other trade experts had expressed little interest in that when shown draft copies of the book.
"It seemed to be clutter at the time," he said, citing "the rush to print and edit."
The book's publisher, the Institute for International Economics, has been feuding with the Economic Policy Institute about the job impact of the free trade pact. Both institutes receive much of their money from nonprofit organizations like the Ford Foundation, and some money from corporations. The Economic Policy Institute also takes contributions from labor unions.
Jeff Faux, the president of the Economic Policy Institute, forecast last summer that the pact would cause the loss of 500,000 jobs in the United States within 10 years. Mr. Faux said that his estimate of heavy job losses over the next 10 years was based on the assumption that American exports of factory equipment would have a much more immediate effect on Mexican industrial production.
The International Trade Commission, a Federal agency that is independent of Congress and the executive branch, concluded in a report on Feb. 3 that the free trade agreement would produce a very small "long-term" gain in employment in the United States, but did not define how long this would take.
 
Clinton Endorsement of Pact
 While still a candidate last fall, President Clinton endorsed the free trade pact but said that he would not sign legislation putting its provisions into law until three supplemental agreements had been concluded. Negotiations are scheduled to begin during the week of March 15 on these supplemental pacts, which are supposed to cover labor issues, environmental issues and surges in imports that may follow the lowering of trade barriers.
Anne Luzzatto, the press secretary for Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said today that the Administration had not seen the disputed Hufbauer-Schott table, but that "since these numbers can't take into account the effect of the yet-to-be-negotiated supplemental agreements, they are premature."
The Labor Department relied heavily on Mr. Hufbauer's and Mr. Schott's research in developing the Bush Administration's plan last autumn to give financial assistance to workers laid off because of the free trade pact. The Bush Administration never prepared its own estimate of the trade agreement's effects on employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; HUFBAUER, GARY C; SCHOTT, JEFFREY J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



647 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Clinton Heads West, Stressing His Plan's Rewards

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Feb. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton traveled to the West Coast today to turn the debate over his economic plan away from the unpleasant topic of what taxpayers will lose to a more politically salable discourse about what he says they will gain.
Appearing before a supportive crowd leavened with politicians and celebrities at Santa Monica College, Mr. Clinton said, "The only reason for reducing the deficit is not just to prove you can bring it down, but because it's better for the people of this country." 
 Conscious of his audience in Southern California, where cuts in the military industry have hit hard, the President announced that he had released $500 million in Federal money set aside for retraining displaced military workers. He said the Bush Administration had refused to release the money, part of $1.7 billion the previous Congress had approved for converting military industries to civilian businesses.
Mr. Clinton said that much of the money would be spent in this state, which could be expected to absorb much of the blow of the $76 billion in additional Pentagon reductions that Mr. Clinton proposed in his budget plan to Congress last week.
 
Heading for Stress Points
 In Seattle on Monday, Mr. Clinton will meet with workers of the Boeing Company, which last week announced it would lay off 28,000 employees. He will be joined there by Vice President Al Gore, and aides said he would announce the Administration's technology policy.
Today in the community college's gymnasium, the President said: "This whole part of the country, which has been the beacon of hope for decades for Americans, is now under great stress. And the economic problems aggravate the underlying social difficulties that you find in every big city in America: more and more poor people, more and more single parent households, more and more children forgotten and left behind."
Mr. Clinton also said he had made tougher decisions than either past Presidents or past Congresses had been willing to make. And he pledged that any package he supported would have to retain the balance he sought.
"I will not support a tax increase, even a tax increase on the wealthiest 1.2 percent of the American people -- who are the only people whose rates are being raised -- I won't support that until I know we have the spending cuts too," he said. "I don't think anybody should pay more until we cut more."
Paul Begala, a political consultant who has been traveling with Mr. Clinton to advise him on how to direct his sales talks, said the intent of today's speech was to place the call for action squarely at Congress's door.
 
Using the Bully Pulpit
 "This is not a game," Mr. Begala said. "He's had four weeks to come up with 150 spending cuts. Some of these folks up there had four years. Some of them had four decades. Surely they can come up with something."
Mr. Begala said the President had taken to the road to demonstrate his commitment to forcing his economic plan through Congress. The President's advisers are also convinced that Mr. Clinton is particularly effective on the campaign stump, where he can be seen talking to citizens outside of the confines of the White House.
"The power of the Presidency to use the bully pulpit is significant," Mr. Begala said. "And with this President, it's more than most."
Mr. Clinton, apparently hewing to a campaign tenet that a central point can never be made too many times, once again challenged Congress to pass his economic package unless they can suggest better and more specific spending cuts.
"Nobody wants to talk about half the things that I tried to deal with in this budget, because they're too painful," Mr. Clinton said. "But if you only worry about what's happening today and tomorrow you never really look beyond that."
Dismissing Republican criticism that his plan uses gimmickry to bring about spending cuts, he said voters should tell their representatives in Congress that "you just can't have the sweet parts if this program; you've got to have the tough parts, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton being greeted at Santa Monica College yesterday. "I don't think anybody should pay more until we cut more," he said. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (68%); BAB (BRU) (68%); BA (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA COLLEGE BOEING CO (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANTA MONICA COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); APPROVALS (68%); PARENTS (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



648 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN;
Energy Tax's Effect Understated Up to 50%, Industry Officials Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
The proposed tax on energy would be much larger than the Clinton Administration asserts, costing a typical family as much as $500 a year rather than $320, industry officials and a former Secretary of Energy contended today.
In budget documents released by the Administration last week, the energy tax was projected to raise $22 billion a year after it was fully phased in on July 1, 1996. But industry critics said today that the tax would actually raise $33 billion or more. 
 "It understates the effect on a family of four by 50 percent," said Charles J. DiBona, president of the American Petroleum Institute, the industry's chief trade association. For gasoline, he suggested that the new tax would raise the retail price by 10 cents a gallon, not the 7 1/2 cents projected by the White House.
The Administration has estimated that an average family of four would pay about $120 a year more in direct taxes and about $200 a year more in indirect costs passed on by businesses if the proposed energy taxes were approved.
James R. Schlesinger, Energy Secretary in the Carter Administration and now a consultant in Washington, said he had reached the same conclusion. "The numbers just didn't stack up," he said after analyzing them over the past few days. "The tax turns out to be understated. The oil industry will by itself pay about $20 billion."
 
Difference of Opinion
 In response, an aide to Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, flatly called the critics wrong. And a career Treasury Department analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, cited various factors that he said refuted the criticism, among them the decline in demand that usually results from higher taxes.
"I feel pretty confident that it's all there -- and it's right," said this analyst, a financial economist who is not a political appointee.
Mr. DiBona's argument was fairly straightforward, based on American consumption of 17 million barrels of oil a day, or 6.2 billion barrels a year. Since the tax on oil is to be $3.47 a barrel, this comes to $21.5 billion a year, just below the $22 billion projected to be raised by taxing all energy -- coal, natural gas, nuclear fuel and hydro-power as well as petroleum.
The petroleum institute acknowledged that the Clinton plan did not tax nonfuel uses, like oil that becomes part of a plastic product. These are estimated at 10 percent to 15 percent of fuel use.
And both industry and Administration spokesmen agreed that the White House had properly accounted for three measures aimed at minimizing the tax burden on the poor -- the earned income tax credit, the food stamp program and the low-income energy assistance program.
One source of disagreement was what the Treasury Department analyst called "behavior adjustments." Those adjustments reflect the fact that a price increase for any product tends to reduce demand and may also encourage demand for alternatives. "There is some conservation," the analyst said.
He also pointed to what was probably the biggest factor in the Adminstration's calculation of net tax revenues of $22 billion a year. This reflected assumptions about how the rise in the energy tax would affect such things as jobs, incomes and inflation.
The main point of dispute, then, appeared to be over an Administration assertion that consumption of oil would rise modestly through the year 2000, even with the tax increases, "representing modest conservation and fuel switching without shock to the real economy."
Mr. DiBona contended that demand for oil in the year 2000 would be at least 8 percent higher, nearly as much as without the tax. This meant, he said, that the Administration's argument, rather than undermining his position, supports it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



649 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

A NEW HOME (IN NEW YORK) FOR LETTERMAN
CBS has bought the Ed Sullivan Theater on Broadway to serve as the new studio home for David Letterman, making it certain that his late-night show will continue to be produced in New York after he switches to CBS from NBC this summer, CBS officials say. The deal, which was concluded on Saturday and is to be announced this morning, includes the 14-story office building adjacent to the theater. CBS paid about $4 million and expects to pay "several million more" for renovation, said Edward Grebow, the network's senior vice president of operations. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY 

A SAD END TO A GOOD IDEA
The prospects of Central Security Systems were sufficiently bright to attract $600,000 from a group of investors. But now the former president of the company and two of his former business partners have admitted that the company's success grew from bribes for inside information, and the three men are cooperating in a Federal investigation of corruption. B2.
 
MAN SET ON FIRE
A group of teen-age boys set fire to a 37-year-old man as he slept aboard a subway train in Ozone Park, Queens, the transit police say. The rider was badly burned in the attack, and the youths escaped. B3.
 
PROTEST AND DISCIPLINE AT COLUMBIA
Twenty-five years after a series of student protests roiled Columbia University, students and administrators are again wrangling over how far students may go to protest an action by the university -- and how harsh the punishment should be for those who do so illegally. B3.
 
CLINTON HEARS A PLEA FOR THE DISABLED
For years, Mary Somoza has been an advocate for disabled people, lobbying officials, speaking before a Congressional subcommittee and serving on various task forces. But she is marveling over how much attention the cause has received since her 9-year-old daughter met President Clinton on national television on Saturday. B2.
 
REGION
 
CHOOSING A COMPTROLLER
Faced with the unusual legislative task of choosing a new state comptroller, Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin wants to use committees of the Assembly and the Senate to interview candidates for the job. Because the new comptroller will almost certainly be a Democrat, many of the candidates and their political strategists believe the decision will ultimately be made by Mr. Weprin and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. But the method Mr. Weprin proposes would give the selection process at least the appearance of openness. Edward V. Regan, the State Comptroller for the last 14 years, announced on Thursday that he would resign at the end of April. His unexpected decision to leave office in the middle of his term set in motion a flurry of intense politicking, and at least 11 people have already expressed interest in the job. B5.
 
$435 MILLION IN TRANSPORTATION AID
Officials in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are anticipating a windfall of more than $435 million in new transportation aid as part of President Clinton's economic stimulus package. They say that if the money is approved by Congress, it could create about 12,000 new jobs this year as local highways, bridges, and subway stations are rebuilt. While transportation officials are still analyzing details that were released in Washington last week, they have already calculated what share of President Clinton's $4.16 billion in transportation proposals they will get if the $30 billion package is passed in full.B5.
 
CRIMINAL-JUSTICE NIGHTMARE
Ginger Labensky's arrest touched off a nearly yearlong nightmarish encounter with the criminal-justice system. The odyssey of this woman from Westbury, L.I., illustrates that America's drug culture knows no geographic or political boundaries. Metro Matters. B6.
 
MAKING PIANO KEYS DANCE
QRS Music Rolls Inc. is the country's oldest and largest manufacturer of music rolls -- the perforated sheets that are the brains, and hands, of player pianos. Practicing a craft that resonates more with nostalgia than innovation, the artisans at QRS's factory in Buffalo use an 80-year-old technique to make piano keys dance. B5.
 
Chronicle B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIRES (90%); THEATER (90%); ARSON (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); LOBBYING (72%); BRIBERY (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



650 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Trade Partners Back Clinton

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Representatives of the leading industrial countries praised President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan over the weekend, but they voiced concern about the troubled international and Russian economies, diplomats said.
The closed meeting in New York of senior officials on Saturday, the first economic gathering of major nations since Mr. Clinton took office last month, reached no decisions. 
 The session was mainly intended to prepare the way for a full-scale ministerial meeting of the so-called Group of Seven next Saturday.
 
U.S. Looking for a Deal
United States officials say they hope that Washington can strike a deal with the other Group of Seven nations in the coming months on a common strategy to spur lagging global growth, and they are optimistic that Mr. Clinton's new economic plan will help them achieve that.
The other nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- have been pressing the United States for years to put its fiscal house in order.
"If we get this package through . . . that puts us in a much more credible position, a more influential position where this country can restore its rightful leadership and help" the Group of Seven nations, United States Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said Friday.
Diplomats said that the deputy finance ministers who met Saturday seemed impressed by the plan and voiced hopes that it would be passed by Congress. But they added that this preliminary support did not mean the United States would have an easy time convincing its allies to take the action it believes necessary to spur world growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (72%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRADE PARTNERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; RUSSIA UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (72%); GERMANY (68%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



651 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Leader Clears a Path With Sharp Elbows

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
One morning in January, Alberto Arciniegas, a retired army general, looked out of his bedroom window here and noticed that his armed guards had disappeared.
A few weeks earlier, General Arciniegas presided over a secret military tribunal that imposed a life sentence on Abimael Guzman Reynoso, founder of the Shining Path guerrilla movement. Suddenly stripped of Government protection, the general started to hear the terrorist clock ticking loudly. 
 Within hours, he and his family were flying to political exile in Argentina. With the general's departure, President Alberto K. Fujimori had knocked another rival off Peru's political chessboard.
At midterm, Peru's President rules isolated from organized political support, relying largely on a power base formed by public opinion polls. With a series of authoritarian moves, starting last April with the suspension of the Constitution and the closing of Congress and the courts, Mr. Fujimori has forced into exile or retirement a long list of allies turned enemies.
"Fujimori is a solitary man in power," said Enrique Bernales Ballesteros, a human rights advocate who was a Senator until Mr. Fujimori closed Congress. "He's insecure and mistrustful."
 
U.S. to Review Aid
 The nature of the Fujimori presidency will become an issue for the Clinton Administration this spring when it reviews a $255 million aid request inherited from the Bush Administration. Largely for economic aid, this request is double last year's level and is one of Latin America's highest.
Mr. Fujimori's defenders say that his authoritarian brand of democracy is an evil far less significant than an army coup or a takeover by the Shining Path revolutionaries, a violent group whose leaders admire Mao and Stalin.
So far, Peruvians seem to accept this argument. In the last 18 months, Mr. Fujimori's public approval ratings have not fallen below 50 percent. His popularity has been sustained by sharply reduced inflation and the dramatic capture of Mr. Guzman.
On a continent where corruption charges provoked the impeachment of Brazil's President last year and two coup attempts against Venezuela's President, Peru's President carefully cultivates an image of the honest, hard-working outsider. Mr. Fujimori's popularity crosses borders, something that is rare for Latin America.
 
Authoritarian Portent?
 In Venezuela, his approval rating is 75 percent -- about 10 times that of Venezuela's President, Carlos Andres Perez. The authoritarian Mr. Fujimori may be a face of Latin American politics to come.
Paradoxically, although Peruvian per capita incomes are now at the same levels they were in the 1960's, Mr. Fujimori's popularity remains strong. Fearful of a fatal dip in the polls, Mr. Fujimori jealously guards his two trophies: the arrest of Mr. Guzman, and Peru's 1992 inflation rate of 57 percent, the lowest in 15 years.
When Peru's television and magazines gave glowing coverage of a police general who directed the manhunt for Mr. Guzman, Mr. Fujimori shunted the general aside to what one journalist here called "a broom-closet office." Tarnishing the glitter, Shining Path attacks increased from an average of four a day before the arrest to an average of six a day until the end of the year.
When an Economy Minister, Carlos Bolona Behr, started to get a large part of the credit for low inflation, Mr. Fujimori abruptly dismissed him, in January. To soothe business people alarmed over the dismissal, Government officials promised continuity, or "bolonismo without Bolona." The free-market policies of Mr. Bolona include the sale of state companies, severe budget austerity and Peru's return to international credit markets.
 
The Common Touch
 Contributing to the steep drop in inflation are a sharp increase in tax collection, which helped close the big budget deficit; a rise in rates for money-losing state utility companies so less money would have to be printed to cover their losses, and reductions in the real salaries of Government employees.
One cost of the attack on inflation has been a surge in the number of poor people during Mr. Fujimori's tenure, from 7 million in 1990 to 12 million today out of a total population of 22 million, according to Government figures. Mr. Fujimori has vowed to restore economic growth this year.
In a modern version of a long tradition of personalist politics in Latin America, Mr. Fujimori stays on top without the aid of an organized political party.
Instead of addressing the people from a palace balcony overlooking Lima's central plaza, the President prefers Sunday evening television talk shows. And instead of the ornate oratory of his Latin predecessors, this 56-year-old son of Japanese immigrants prefers Spanish that is short, direct and unadorned.
In Peru's ethnic mix, the President's Japanese ancestry is now an asset. In this Pacific Coast nation, people routinely tell poll takers that the nation they most admire is Japan. Plastic surgeons here do a booming business changing the features of Peruvians so they can emigrate to Japan with false papers of Japanese ancestry to seek employment.
With Fujimori-style pragmatism now stamping politics here, Lima residents on Jan. 29 overwhelmingly re-elected Mayor Ricardo Belmont, a political independent whose slogan was "Work, Not Talk." Reflecting a general collapse of traditional political parties, the mayoral candidate of the Popular Revolutionary American Alliance, long Peru's most powerful party, received only 3 percent of the vote in Lima. The party scored poorly nationwide, winning only two mayoralities in the north, its traditional stronghold.
 
A Scattershot Approach
 To maintain an independent image, Mr. Fujimori deliberately fires his verbal machine guns in all directions.
In recent weeks, he branded as "traitors" a group of navy officers under investigation for corruption, tried to justify to the people the dismissal of 20 percent of Peru's diplomatic corps by asserting that several were homosexuals, brushed off charges that army officers arrested in connection with plotting a coup had been tortured in custody, charged that some human rights advocates were "apologists for terrorism" and allowed an important minister to say that some reporters were "information terrorists."
"Peru is in very bad shape and these criticisms of soldiers, diplomats and journalists go over well with the man in the street because Fujimori is attacking the establishment," said Alfredo Torres, manager of Apoyo, an independent polling service. "It also knocks the opposition off base because he is always changing targets."
Indeed, Mr. Fujimori's popularity hit its highest recorded level, 81 percent, immediately after he unexpectedly closed Peru's courts and Congress in April.
"Only 2 percent of Peruvians have real access to Government," said Hernando de Soto, a former Government adviser. "For the other 98 percent, the difference is not great between a Peruvian President who is a democrat and one who is a dictator."
 
A History of Coups
 Mr. Fujimori and his press spokesman, Carlos Orellana, have declined all interview requests from The New York Times over the last year. No reason has been given.
While most of the President's oral darts do little more than leave flesh wounds in Peru's elite, many politicians warn that attacking the army is risky in a country that has a long history of coup attempts.
After the coup attempt in November, Mr. Fujimori enraged army commanders by briefly billeting 3 generals and 10 other officers in a maximum-security prison here that holds convicted Shining Path guerrillas. Confronting open rebellion from the military high command in mid-December, Mr. Fujimori canceled a trip abroad and stayed home to retire several popular generals, including General Arciniegas.
But by mid-January, Peru's National Intelligence Service was detecting more army plotting. A loner by nature, Mr. Fujimori once commented, "The intelligence service is the only institution I trust."
But with polls showing that most Peruvians expect a new coup attempt this year, many politicians wonder whether Mr. Fujimori should rely entirely on a service that detected the November attempt only at the eleventh hour.
[On Feb. 18, 28 of the officers accused of plotting to overthrow Mr. Fujimori were given prison sentences ranging from six months to eight years.]
 
Caution Is Advised
 "The Government's main support base is the army, but the armed forces are divided," said Pedro Caceres Velazquez, a nonaligned member of the new Government-controlled Congress that convened here on Jan. 1. "Fujimori should be more cautious and careful with the military."
Nor do Mr. Fujimori's authoritarian innovations win applause overseas.
Since August, 154 Shining Path suspects have gone before secret military tribunals where hooded judges preside. Of the accused, 85 percent have been convicted, and 104 have been sentenced to life imprisonment. New legislation provides life sentences for teachers convicted of proselytizing for Shining Path and for journalists convicted of "apology of terrorism." Mr. Fujimori plans to hold a national referendum this year to win public approval for establishing the death penalty.
Fostering a climate of intimidation, military tribunals in late January convicted of treason the two lawyers who defended Mr. Guzman in his October trial and sentenced them to life in prison.
Prison directors have barred visits by the International Committee of the Red Cross since September. Red Cross prison visits were at the top of a list of human rights conditions stipulated by the Bush Administration for giving aid to Peru. Officials at the United States Embassy here predict that Congress and the Clinton Administration will require tighter compliance with human rights standards in return for the approval and release of the proposed American aid.
 
Press Freedom Erodes
 "Freedom of the press in Peru is steadily eroding in what appears to be a broad campaign by the Fujimori Government to intimidate or silence critics and political opponents," Americas Watch, a division of Human Rights Watch in New York, said in early February.
The group cited the jailings of four reporters last year, the libel conviction of Enrique Zileri, Peru's most influential magazine publisher, and a police investigation of Ricardo Uceda, editor of another news weekly.
Often at odds with Europe and the United States, Mr. Fujimori, however, has his finger firmly on Peru's pulse.
Asked in January to select "Peru's three greatest problems" from a 22-item list, respondents in a recent Apoyo poll here named terrorism, unemployment and poverty.
Human rights violations ranked 10th. "The interruption of the constitutional regime" ranked last.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru, who has been noted for being solitary and insecure, has forced into exile a long list of allies-turned-enemies. Nevertheless, Mr. Fujimori's public approval rating has not fallen below 50 percent, in part because of Peru's reduced inflation. (Bernstein-Spoone/Gamma-Laison)
 
Graph: "Slashing Inflation" shows the inflation rate in Peru from 1988 to 1992. (Source: Preuvian Government)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); SHINING PATH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) SHINING PATH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY COURTS (90%); COUPS (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SENTENCING (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); TRENDS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INFLATION (62%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



652 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: States Are Ready to Spend Extra Clinton Transit Aid

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

 BODY:
Officials in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are anticipating a windfall of more than $435 million in new transportation aid as part of President Clinton's economic stimulus package. They say that if the money is approved by Congress, it could create about 12,000 new jobs this year as local highways, bridges, and subway stations are rebuilt.
While transportation officials are still analyzing details that were released in Washington last week, they have already calculated what share of President Clinton's $4.16 billion in transportation proposals they will get if the $30 billion package, intended to provide an immediate stimulus to the economy, is passed in full. 
 White House officials, who are expected to submit the proposals to Congress this week, have said that they hope the package will be passed before the Easter recess in early April so that the money will be available in time for summer.
Partly because the new money would restore most of what Congress cut from transportation projects last year, after authorizing the spending a year earlier, Representative Jerrold Nadler of Manhattan said yesterday that he thought it "quite likely" that the plan would be enacted with minor adjustments. The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, has voiced similar sentiment, but other senators have expressed reservations about voting to spend before they vote to cut the deficit.
 
'Coming at a Good Time'
 Aware that the political mood in Washington is as unpredictable as in any state capital, local officials are nonetheless optimistic.
"It's money coming at a good time," said Mortimer L. Downey, chief financial officer at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, whose own infrastructure budget is in limbo until the New York State Legislature sorts out a budget, due April 1. "It will be used for stuff that would not get done otherwise."
Officials in Albany, Trenton and Hartford all said that new aid would be spent either to start projects that were ready to go -- planned, designed and postponed because of state budget constraints -- or to accelerate those already underway. In both cases, they said, the spending would be for projects that can start, and put people to work, within 60 days from the time Congress approves it.
"It's use it or lose it," said Thomas M. Downs, Commissioner of Transportation in New Jersey, which expects to receive at least $115 million more. "One of the criticisms of spending money on transportation has been that it takes too long before you see any of it in the economy, but this package is designed to go only to projects that can start right away."
 
To Some, a Modest Snack
 At the same time, some transportation experts likened the new money to a modest snack that will quickly disappear in the jaws of an ever-hungry transportation system, especially in New York City, which is badly underfed in maintenance and repairs. New York State hopes to get $250 million more but it is not clear how much will be spent on New York City projects.
Twelve thousand new jobs are not likely to make a noticeable dent in the region's overall unemployment, since more than 400,000 were out of work in New York State alone last month.
"It's very much needed," said Raymond R. Ruggieri, director of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, a planning organization for the State Department of Transportation. "But it's really only a tiny amount of what we need overall."
For example, while the M.T.A. is expecting $80 million of the total tri-state funds, it is still waiting to hear from Albany about its request for $9.6 billion for capital improvements over a five-year period.
 
Wouldn't Avert Fare Increase
 M.T.A. executives have also warned that a 25-cent fare increase may be necessary in April if their $185 million operating deficit is not plugged by lawmakers. But the Federal aid is for infrastructure and will not affect the possible fare increase. Mr. Downey said the new grants would probably be spent to renovate subway stations and replace outdated signal systems.
The Clinton Administration asked every state in late January to submit a lists of projects that were ready to go, to learn how many total jobs could be produced quickly.
New York officials spotted $425 million worth of such projects, New Jersey found $280 million worth, Connecticut listed $250 million worth, and the M.T.A. found $305 million worth.
 
Less Generosity for Transit
 Transportation officials noted that the President's proposal was more generous with financing for highways and bridges than for mass transportation. The package would restore virtually the full amount of Federal aid for highways and bridges that Congress originally authorized under the $151 billion Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, known by transportation mavens as ISTEA, which they pronounce "ice tea."
Yet for transit, President Clinton's proposal would restore only part of the grant that was cut last year.
"It's unfortunate, because mass transportation needs it most," said James Tripp, counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund. "I think it reflects the overall influence of state departments of transportation and county highway departments. There's a bias toward highways."
More aid may come for aviation and high-speed rail projects, but will be at the discretion of the Federal Department of Transportation. Highway and most transit financing is divided among states on a predetermined formula based on population.
In New York City, the highways that may benefit include the Cross-Bronx Expressway, the Major Deegan Expressway, the Van Wyck Expressway and the Grand Central Parkway. M. Michael Francese, regional director of the New York State Department of Transportation, said that the department had planned to repair sections of connecting bridges on only two of those four roadways, but would now probably go forward with all of them.
 
Faster Work on I-95
 In Connecticut, which is hoping for about $70 million in new aid for highways and transit, repair work on Interstate 95 in Fairfield County will be accelerated, and reconstruction work on seven different bridges will begin ahead of time.
In New Jersey, Mr. Downs said, a chunk of the new money would be spent to resurface 65 miles of highways throughout the state. Another major project to start is the rebuilding of the Berry's Creek Bridge, near the Meadowlands sports complex.
No matter how great the difference between what help from Washington they would like and what they will get, most of the region's transportation officials seemed pleased with the direction of the new Administration.
"After more than a decade in the wilderness, there is an Administration in Washington that recognizes the importance of public transit," said Peter E. Stangl, chairman of the M.T.A. "That is welcome news."


GRAPHIC: Projects ready to go are those identified by each state, and submitted to the respective agencies in Washington last month, as projects that were planned and ready to begin almost immediately.
Chart: "Roads: New Money for Transportation"
 Money now expected refers to money both for highways and for transit, to be granted through the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration. Dollar figures are in millions.
 
New York
Projects ready to go: $425.0
Funds now expected: $250.0
Jobs projected: 6,250
 
New York M.T.A.
Projects ready to go: $306.0
Funds now expected: $ 80.0
Jobs: 2,000
 
New Jersey
Projects ready to go: $280.0
Funds now expected: $113.8
Jobs projected: 3,400
 
Connecticut
Projects ready to go: $250.0
Funds now expected: $70.0
Jobs projected: 2,850
(Source: State departments of transportation, Metropolitan Transportations Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (53%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FEDERAL AID (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EASTER SEASON (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (56%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FAISON, SETH BILL CLINTON (90%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



653 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2907 words

HEADLINE: Peace From Chaos -- A special report.;
Mozambique's Outlook Brightens As Truce Holds and Drought Ends

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TETE, Mozambique

 BODY:
On a continent of withered promise, where country after country has defeated recent dreams of creating civil order out of chronic chaos, Mozambique has unexpectedly emerged as a candidate for an African success story.
When a cease-fire was signed in October few expected it would end this country's savagely indiscriminate 16-year war, but it has held for months. A ruthless drought that had aid donors touting Mozambique as the next Somalia has been broken by quenching rains, and the country is carpeted with corn.
 
Peace Plus Rain
 Here in the fertile northwest, refugees who fled the insurgent Mozambique National Resistance, or Renamo, are streaming home from border camps in Malawi and rebuilding the cane huts burned by the rebels. In other regions, food and medicine are reaching villagers isolated for many years behind guerrilla battle lines. 
 "We've got a combination of peace and rain, which there hasn't been in Mozambique for a quarter of a century," marveled Arthur M. Hussey 3d, coordinator of relief deliveries for CARE.
Mozambicans from President Joaquim Chissano down to the resettled peasants and dormant warriors describe a universal weariness of war. Foreign donors and diplomats speak of Mozambique with an optimism that surprises them, as a place where the West's post-cold-war ambition of playing midwife to new democracies stands a chance of being fulfilled.
 
Other Crises Distract
 The greatest danger now to Mozambique's tranquillity, almost everyone agrees, is Mozambique's tranquillity.
Lacking scenes of carnage and starvation to disturb Western television audiences, Mozambique is having trouble competing for attention with Somalia and the former Yugoslavia.
As a result, the dispatch of United Nations peacekeeping troops, which is a prerequisite for disarming the rivals, merging them into a new national army and moving toward elections, has fallen far behind schedule.
Some fear the cease-fire faces a serious test in March, when the new crop comes in and Renamo, which was drawn to the peace table in part by hunger, is no longer dependent on foreign handouts.
"Delay is a big danger, of course," President Chissano said in an interview at his oceanside residence in Maputo, the capital. "The soldiers and the Renamo fighters are in the countryside with their arms in hand. They are doing almost nothing, they are waiting to be fed. They can get annoyed."
Aldo Ajello, the United Nations special representative in Mozambique, said he hoped the demobilization of the rival forces could begin in April. The country's first elections, once planned for October, are now tentatively scheduled for June or July of 1994.
Mr. Ajello said his superiors in New York, who have more than enough troops volunteered for policing duty in Somalia, have had trouble finding countries interested in dispatching peacekeepers to Mozambique. The reasons, he said, are obvious:
"Nobody is dying. Nobody is starving. We are not on CNN."
 
The War
In Ravaged Nation, Countless Dead
 To Mozambicans, almost continually at war since 1964, it seemed the dying and starving would never end.
It took 10 years of insurrection to dislodge the Portugese colonialists, who abandoned the country in 1975, looting and sabotaging as they fled. The next year, with a Soviet-backed Marxist Government struggling to find its feet, Renamo was born.
The guerrilla group had its origins in a loose militia recruited by Portuguese industrialists to protect their interests during the war of independence.
This motley band was later adopted by the intelligence service of white-ruled Rhodesia as a tool for destabilizing the Mozambican Government, which provided sanctuary for black Rhodesian insurgents. After blacks won control of Rhodesia (renaming it Zimbabwe), South Africa took over as Renamo's sponsor.
The guerrillas, who proclaimed themselves anti-Communists, waged a scorched-earth war aimed at destroying any sign of Government-sponsored progress. They burned clinics by the hundreds, schools by the thousands. They mined and ambushed along Mozambique's transport corridors, blowing food convoys off the roads with bazookas and immobilizing the ports and railroads that were one of Mozambique's few sources of foreign earnings.
Those who lived under Renamo control tell of massacres and mutilations, rapes and forced labor, and everywhere the kidnapping of children for training as soldiers.
By the late 1980's Renamo had lost its foreign patrons, and the Government had abandoned Communism for a version of free-market pragmatism. But the war raged on.
Of Mozambique's 15 million people, it is estimated that up to one million died, that 1.5 million fled to squalid refugee camps in a half-dozen neighboring countries, and that perhaps 3 million more were driven from their villages into overcrowded towns and cities.
Over the last two years, the misery was compounded by southern Africa's worst drought of the century.
When President Chissano and the rebel leader, Afonso Dhlakama, signed their peace accord last October after two years of international pressure, there was little confidence that either man could deliver what he promised.
Renamo was widely regarded as an uncontrollable gang of young thugs, and Government soldiers were badly demoralized, prone to looting sprees and occasional terrorism. Anarchy seemed the more probable fate of this hungry and gun-saturated land.
 
The Peace
Paralyzed Country Is Stirring Again
 The most immediate sign of normalcy is that Mozambique, long paralyzed, is moving.
Relief workers who relied on remote landing strips for their deliveries in Renamo areas now dispatch aid convoys on the highways. Diplomats and journalists who had hunkered down in Maputo now explore the country by road. Sun-worshipers mosey up the coast from Maputo for the more secluded Indian Ocean beaches.
Cities that had swollen with hungry and fearful peasants are now spilling their crowds back into the countryside, and those trapped for years behind Renamo lines have been allowed to leave, emerging with malnutrition, disease and tales of terror.
When they showed up at a relief center here, Chassassa Nvunganene, 30, and her three skinny children had walked three days from a Renamo zone in the central province of Sofala. They trudged barefoot, surviving on grasshoppers and roots.
Listlessly she recounted a common litany of sorrows: Renamo captives since 1989, one daughter dead of malaria in a Renamo camp, husband killed by a land mind while hauling food for the guerrillas. Only three months after the cease-fire, she said, did their captors relent.
"Renamo said, 'If you want to go, you can go, we don't have food for you,' " Mrs. Nvunganene said, as her 6-year old son fished a squirming grasshopper from a plastic bag and handed it to his little sister.
Western relief workers say the tide of victims like Mrs. Nvunganene has now subsided to a comparative trickle.
Three months ago, said Felice Dindo, the chief delegate for the International Committee of the Red Cross in Mozambique, "we were seeing people starving and nothing moving."
We were blocked on the roads," he said. Now, "the emergency, we can say, is over, at least in the places we've been able to reach."
This is an important caveat. Relief workers believe that in some Renamo strongholds, especially the valley along the Zambezi River, there are still substantial pockets of hungry people stricken by cholera and other disease, isolated by demolished roads and the estimated two million land mines seeded across the country.
Crews are removing the mines and slowly opening routes into these areas.
When Red Cross workers first penetrated late last year into Chibabava, in central Mozambique, Mr. Dindo said, they were alarmed to find 20,000 fearful squatters jammed into the town and a raging cholera epidemic. Doctors and nurses were rushed in, work crews began digging latrines. But in December they found another way to clear up the problem.
"We distributed seeds in December, and the population was down to 2,000 in a matter of a month," Mr. Dindo said. Everyone went home to plant corn.
 
The Combatants
The Road Back To Brotherhood
 Perhaps the most striking sight on a 400-mile drive along the once perilous roads of north and central Mozambique was the casual foot traffic of Renamo fighters and Government soldiers, some armed and others not, exchanging polite greetings as they passed one another.
"Come here, my brother," yelled Tembo Beachane, a Government soldier, hailing a Renamo guerrilla to meet visiting reporters in the market town of Guro.
The guerrilla, Josias Mbaula, had trudged for two days in his knee-high rubber boots to mail letters in Guro and was now meandering back to base, an AK-47 assault rifle strung over his shoulder. A guerrilla for 13 of his 33 years, six times wounded, he now chattered amiably about the peace.
"I fought, I finished, and I am happy," he declared, and like every other combatant interviewed along the route he predicted an easy reconciliation. Gesturing at Mr. Beachane, he said, "We will understand each other because we belong to the same family."
Asked when he would surrender his weapon, and what he wanted to do next, the Renamo man answered automatically, as did almost every Renamo fighter to whom the question was put:
"For me, everything depends on what they tell me to do."
Western peacekeepers who have been surveying the military situation in Mozambique in preparation for demobilization said this answer was typical, and reassuring. It suggests that Renamo is under much tigher control than previously supposed, and thus likely to disarm when ordered.
Indeed, United Nations officials and diplomats said, the guerrillas appear far better disciplined than the disgruntled army.
The plan mapped out by the United Nations calls for fighters -- an estimated 20,000 from Renamo, perhaps 70,000 Government forces -- to be mustered at 49 assembly points policed by international troops.
After registering, turning in their weapons, and getting medical checkups, they will be issued civilian clothes and money. Some will be sent for training as soldiers in the new national army, to be composed of 15,000 men from each side, and the rest returned to their homes.
The object is to avoid the mistakes of Angola, where Western peacemakers pushed for elections before the combatants had been disarmed. Angolan rebels refused to accept their electoral defeat in September, and the renewed fighting has pushed that country to the brink of collapse.
In Mozambique, the Security Council has approved a $330 million budget for a peacekeeping force of about 7,500 troops, but Mr. Ajello, the United Nations representative, said that the budget had been stalled in bureaucracy and that member countries had shown little enthusiasm for sending soldiers.
After much lobbying the United Nations has offers of troops from Italy, Uruguay, Bangladesh, Zambia, Botswana and India, but no country has offered the engineering and logistics units needed to rebuild roads and supply the demobilization centers, he said.
Even so, officials here agree the immediate danger is escalating banditry by restive soldiers, not the resumption of war.
"We are prepared to wait for a little while," said Vincente Z. Ululu, the general secretary of Renamo, after complaining of the delays. "We want everything to be fixed properly so we do not have the same mistake like in Angola."
 
The Refugees
Voting for Peace With Their Feet
 Flying low out of Tete, north toward the jutting mountains of Malawi, a pilot points out the fresh-plaited roofs and green cornstalks of new settlements that were not there last October. This is the district called Angonia, and these are the homes of returned refugees, voting with their feet for peace.
In Ulongue, the district capital of Angonia, the district administrator rattled off the estimates of returnees. In October 1,472. In November 9,228. In December 33,184. In January, when the rain slowed them, 31,530.
The administrator, Evaristo Wezulo, said two-thirds of Angonia's prewar population of 159,000 had fled. Most have already come home. Those who remain behind, relief workers say, are wives and children subsisting on refugee-camp ration cards until the first harvest at home, or children finishing the Malawi school year.
Salvatore Ippolito, who oversees United Nations refugee relief efforts from Tete, said the return was spontaneous and unexpected.
"The peace agreement surprised us," he said. "It worked so fast and so well."
Among the refugees themselves, confidence in the peace depends on how recently they have arrived.
Those fresh from the border, like Maria Viriato, were dubious. Juggling her infant son and a bundle of live chickens, Mrs. Viriato made her way along the road from the border toward her village, Tembwe, laid waste by Renamo in 1987. Her husband had come ahead in December to build a hut and plant a crop.
Was the war really over? she was asked.
"I believe, and I don't believe," she replied.
Those who have been back longer were steadier in their optimism.
Wizidolo Kabango, who returned to his burned-out village in November after hearing about the peace on Malawi radio, felt secure enough that he returned to the refugee camp to fetch his furniture.
With a tiny table and two chairs balanced on his head, he was walking the 15 miles home again, "because there is no more war in Mozambique."
Angonia has the advantage of being fertile and accessible. In other, more devastated regions bordering the southern tip of Malawi, few refugees have gone home because there is no relief lifeline yet to supply them with seeds or to feed them while they plant their first crop.
Mr. Ippolito said that as soon as roads were opened into other areas and seed distributed, donors would gradually cut off rations in Malawi to encourage the rest of Mozambique's displaced to go home.
 
The Outlook
With Passion Spent, Time for Politics
 "Last year we were comparing Mozambique to Somalia," said Felice Dindo of the Red Cross. "This year we were comparing it to Angola." As it happens, Mr. Dindo and others agree, Mozambique is neither, and that may be its salvation.
Unlike Somalia, Mozambique has a functioning Government, and is naturally fertile. Unlike Angola, Mozambique seems to have spent its passions, and to be ready to move to the nonlethal combat of politics.
It is too early to say how robust the new democracy will be. Several opposition parties are functioning, but they are penniless and, except for Renamo's political wing, largely unknown. In the countryside, few people have heard about the plans for elections.
Almost everyone assumes the ruling party, Frelimo, will win the first elections by default. Renamo leaders say they would accept that outcome, if the elections are fair, and foreign observers here tend to believe them.
Among the civilians brutalized by the war, there is lack of vengefulness that is astonishing to an outsider. Some educated Mozambicans attribute it to fatalism, others to the ancient southern African tradition that vanquished enemies are incorporated into the tribe, and still others to a talent for postponing vengeance.
Perhaps it is simply fatigue with a war that people say made no sense to them. Time and again, victims almost shrugged off their suffering, blaming not Renamo or the Government but "the war."
Although Mozambique's calamity has eased, it is still a long way from the "prosperidade" promised on the Government's New Year billboards in Maputo.
"We will need aid, in terms of food and other aid, for some years to come," said President Chissano. With regular rains, he estimates, the country can again be self-sufficient in food within three years. "This will consolidate the peace."
Manuel Lopes da Costa, the Portuguese Ambassador in Maputo, said Mozambique could expect a quick infusion of income from the reopening of the railroads and ports, and from the sale of energy from a power plant idled by the war.
"I would not be surprised if in two or three years the need in Mozambique will be reduced to one-third of what it is now," Mr. Lopes da Costa said. "I would not be surprised if in a decade Mozambique would be a perfectly viable nation."
 
 
 
MOZAMBIQUE AT A GLANCE
 HISTORY: Portugese colonized the Indian Ocean coast in the late 15th century, but inland principalities remained autonomous until the early 20th century. In the intervening years the area was an important trading center for gold, ivory and slaves. Mozambique became independent on June 25, 1975, after 10 years war. The ruling party, the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frelimo) espoused Communism and one-party rule, but it shifted toward free markets and legalized rival parties at end of the 1980's.
ECONOMY: Mainly agricultural, producing cashews, cotton and sugar for export. The ports and railroads are vital corridors for landlocked neighbors.
PEOPLE: Of the estimated 15 million. there is no dominant ethnic group, but Makua people are thought to be most numerous. The civil war hads a faint ethnic-regiona l undercurrent, with southern Shangaan disproportionately represented in Government, and Ndau and other groups from the center and north tending to predominate in Renamo.
LAND AREA: 303,769 square miles, about twice the size of California.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite concern in diplomatic circles, Mozambicans are returning in large numbers to the northern province of Tete from border camps. (Kok Nam for The New York Times)(pg. A1); In the last two months, regional officials estimate that almost 65,000 people have returned to the district of Angonia in Mozambique from refugee camps in neighboring Malawi. Children played by a cornfield, lush from the recent rains, in a transit camp in Ulongue, the district capital. (Kok Nam for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Mozambique. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: MOZAMBIQUE (99%); SOMALIA (93%); MALAWI (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MOZAMBIQUE MOZAMBIQUE (99%); SOMALIA (93%); MALAWI (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DROUGHT; FOREIGN AID; ELECTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); STARVATION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ARMIES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COLD WAR (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); FARM LABOR (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL JOAQUIM ALBERTO CHISSANO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



654 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: As Plants Close, Injury Claims Rise

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
On June 1, 1991, a jeans manufacturer named Big Yank shut an Oklahoma factory employing 225 workers. As the plant closed, the employees filed nearly 400 workers' compensation claims for injuries on the job, despite having filed only 6 in the previous year.
The company, which had already been battered by foreign competitors with lower labor costs, saw workers' compensation premiums for its nine factories across the country rise to more than $3.6 million a year from $1.8 million. It says the increase forced it to shut three more factories that had employed 800 American workers. 
 "Workers' compensation has been an abomination for us," said Kerry Mortensen, chief financial officer of the Big Yank Corporation, based in Lexington, Ky. "It is a major American tragedy. People don't realize that the abuse of workers' comp is causing the loss of our own jobs."
 
 
Link to Plant Closings
 Big Yank's complaint illustrates a problem widely reported by employers and insurance companies but little studied so far on a national scale: when companies close plants -- as they have during this latest recession -- workers' compensation claims often skyrocket.
Lawyers defending workers argue that a flurry of claims at a plant closing reflects the plight of injured and mistreated employees who chose not to file justifiable claims until they faced unemployment.
"There are many people who are not totally dysfunctional, but they are the working hurt," said Lloyd B. Rowe, the president of the California Applicants Attorney Association, a group for lawyers in workers' compensation practice. "Now their source of income has been removed, their medical insurance has been ended and they may have little or no chance of getting another job."
 
 
System's Intent
 But companies argue that the workers' compensation system of private insurance, devised at the turn of the century to support workers disabled on the job, has evolved into one that helps protect workers from economic blows.
Companies say this evolution has been helped along by insurers that have paid the claims with little question. The insurers counter that in many states such claims are hard to dispute because the laws are so lenient.
Because workers' compensation insurance is required by almost every state, some companies in troubled manufacturing industries say they are often forced to pay stiff increases in premiums on top of annual premium increases of 10 percent in many states.
Although experts say there has been no overall study of the problem, data from various states indicate a widespread increase in the use of workers' compensation as unemployment rises. And in recent interviews, risk-management experts, insurance executives and investigators across the nation said employees frequently file waves of workers' compensation claims when plants close in declining industries, particularly in states with liberal workers' compensation laws.
 
 
State-by-State Reports
 In Michigan, Roger Fries, the executive vice president of the Competitive State Accident Fund, a public agency that sells workers' compensation coverage to corporations, said that in many if not a majority of the closings of heavy industrial plants in the state in recent years, 50 percent or more of the workers filed claims for strains and sprains that are not easily disproved. On investigation, he said, his agency found the majority of those workers were motivated not by injuries but by sudden economic hardship. His agency, he said, has fought those claims.
Edward Palsho, the secretary of the New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance Company, the largest workers' compensation insurer in that state, said that it was "extremely common" to find large numbers of workers filing claims for very general breathing and hearing problems upon the closing of foundries and chemical plants.
Cheryl Budd, a spokeswoman for the National Council on Compensation Insurance, a rate-setting organization for the industry, said companies in Louisiana reported bursts of claims when they shut down plants during the state's economic slowdown in the 1980's.
In California, Steve Dornbach, the manager of a special investigation unit of the Transamerica Insurance Company in Orange and San Bernardino Counties, said 40 percent of the claims investigated by his unit involve plant closings, often with as many as 95 percent of the workers filing claims.
The California Department of Labor found that workers' compensation claims for stress-related disabilities rose to 15,668 in 1991 from 10,444 the previous year. Alan Tebb, vice chairman of the California Workers Compensation Institute, a nonprofit research organization, said the increase was driven in large part by the state's economic downturn and corporate layoffs. Long-term studies in Texas also indicate that as unemployment rose in the 1980's, workers' compensation claims jumped.
"When there is a plant closing, often there is just a ton of claims, particularly stress and cumulative-injury claims," Mr. Tebb said. "Employers call it fraud. But others say fraud is in the eye of the beholder."
 
Dwindling Business
 Perhaps there is no more striking example of the phenomenon than that of the Big Yank plant in Wewoka, Okla.
Big Yank was once one of the nation's largest manufacturers of work clothing, operating 24 plants in the 1940's. Like many clothing makers, it has watched revenues slip over the years as it lost business to factories overseas.
Revenues of the company, which produces pants for retailers and marketers like the Gap and Levi Strauss, fell to $65 million last year from $110 million in 1991. Big Yank now operates six factories in the United States and two in the Caribbean that together employ 3,100. Mr. Mortensen, Big Yank's chief financial officer, said the closely held company lost money last year.
In the spring of 1991, the company told workers that it was closing the plant in Wewoka, the only source of employment for many middle-aged men and women in the economically depressed central part of the state.
Several weeks before the closing, Big Yank said, a representative of a workers' compensation law firm met with employees, distributed forms and told them how to file claims. On May 28, 1991, two days before the plant closing, 247 claims were filed, the company said, and the number of filings rose to nearly 400 in the weeks that followed.
 
 
Cumulative Traumas
 None of the claims were related to injuries from a specific accident on the job, the company said, and almost all involved cumulative traumas that are hard to disprove in court: complaints about joint dysfunctions, breathing, hearing and sleeping problems. The claims involved 114 employees, some with six complaints each.
In some cases, husbands and wives, sisters or entire families filed claims that described similar injuries. The forms show that a father, mother and three children all filed claims, describing injuries to hearing, hands, lungs, necks and other body parts, but no injuries from job accidents.
A spokesman for Big Yank, Kim Lassiter, said the company suspected that many of the claims were fraudulent. Lung injuries, though a problem at textile plants where raw cotton dust sometimes fills the air, are rare at factories where finished fabrics are sewn. Of the approximately 40 workers' compensation claims filed at the plant in the preceding three years, he said, the company received few complaints of the type filed once the closing was announced.
Workers' compensation claims are paid by the company's insurer, and a company's track record is used to calculate its future premiums. In 1992, Big Yank says it was told that its annual premiums would more than triple to $5.8 million, from $1.6 million. After disputing the calculation, Big Yank had its premium set at $3.4 million.
 
 
Passing On Higher Prices
 But even that increase was traumatic to a company operating on thin margins in a highly competitive market. The company said it was forced to raise its jeans' wholesale prices, which were $8.50 and $11.50 pair, by 30 cents a pair. As a result, it lost a number of large customers.
With a sudden drop in orders, the company said it had no choice but to close plants in Tyrone, Pa., and in Middlesboro, Ky. The loss of orders was also a big factor in the decision to close yet another plant, in Hattiesburg, Miss. Altogether, about 800 workers lost their jobs at the three sites.
"The cost of doing business became unprofitable for a number of marginal customers," Mr. Mortensen, the company's financial officer, said. "A 2.5 percent rise in the price of a pair of jeans is significant. When we first heard of the higher figure the insurer was going to charge, we thought we would have to close all of our domestic plants."
Big Yank is now suing its insurance company, Liberty Mutual of Boston, for not properly investigating and fighting the fraudulent claims of workers. In its suit, Big Yank has charged that Liberty Mutual saved its own investigative costs and agreed to make payments to 35 former workers for false claims. In cases where Liberty Mutual did take disputes to court, Big Yank said, the insurance company's lawyers were ill prepared.
 
Insurer Faults Laws
 Liberty Mutual says Big Yank's anger is misdirected.
 The Oklahoma workers' compensation laws, which define how much proof a worker needs to show a disability, have been widely criticized for accepting questionable medical diagnoses, inflating awards and giving little deference to information presented by insurers or employers that claims are exaggerated, said James F. Kelleher, Liberty Mutual's assistant vice president and general counsel. Injuries from years of repetitive work are particularly hard to dispute.
Liberty Mutual did the best it could in investigating Big Yank's claims and disputing those that appeared questionable, Mr. Kelleher said. So far it has paid out nearly $1 million, but is still investigating or disputing claims from 64 of the 114 individuals.
"Employers and insurers ought to focus on fixing the system," Mr. Kelleher said.
To the employees in Oklahoma who suddenly found themselves without work in 1991, who had been living on salaries of $9,000 or $13,000 a year, workers' compensation comes as welcome assistance after years of draining toil. In telephone interviews, several former workers who had filed claims said they had been suffering from medical complaints for years but did not know about workers' compensation until the plant was about to close.
"I'd been working at the plant for 17 years, and I had been hurting for 10 years," said Susie M. Harjo, who lives outside Wewoka and said she remains unemployed. "From doing the same thing every day, bending over the machines, the carts, I just hurt all over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clayton Walk Jr. at works at a nearly deserted Big Yank factory in Tyrone, Pa., one of three plants that the jeans manufacturer said it had to close after its premiums doubled for worker's compensation. (Scott Johnson for The New York Times) (pg. D8)
 
Graphs: "Troubling Pattern in One State"
 When California's employment dropped, stress claims made by workers soared. Graphs track people covered by state workers compensation laws and claims submitted for anxiety reactions and other mental disorders from 1982 through 1991. (Source: California Workers Compensation Institute) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION INSURANCE; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET WORKERS COMPENSATION (93%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (92%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (91%); CLOSINGS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



655 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Television;
One Offended Viewer Tries To Hit 'Donahue' in Wallet

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
Dozens of companies that were advertising on the "Donahue" show a year ago have stopped doing so, and Dr. Richard Neill says he is the reason.
Last summer, Dr. Neill, a Fort Worth dentist, sat down and watched one of Phil Donahue's talk shows. He didn't like it. 
 "I think it was about a guy who said his mother was a slut," Dr. Neill said. The program, to him, seemed gratuitous -- much too sexually explicit for daytime hours when children might be watching.
Dr. Neill spent $360 for 120 transcripts of various "Donahue" shows and decided he was disturbed enough about the content of several of them to do something about it.
First he tried to persuade WFAA-TV, the local station in Dallas, to put the show on after 11 P.M., which he still says would satisfy him. Having lost that battle, he began a one-man campaign, urging advertisers to drop their support of Mr. Donahue's syndicated talk show.
The total effect of Dr. Neill's campaign is disputed. A wide range of advertisers, including national giants like Kraft/General Foods, General Mills, Seven-Up/Dr Pepper and the Keebler Company, have withdrawn their ads in the last six months.
Dr. O'Neill asserts that more than 130 advertisers have dropped the show because of his campaign, which includes a videotape compilation of "Donahue" moments he found especially offensive, and a long list of references to other excerpts.
He provided copies of dozens of replies from company executives expressing various degrees of support for him. Some said Dr. Neill's letter had led them to drop their sponsorship at once.
Several other companies, however, told a reporter that these pleas were only one factor, or no factor at all, in their decision to stop sponsoring "Donahue." And executives from the show say they have had no trouble finding other sponsors and have not lost a dime.
Lately, Dr. Neill's campaign has included attempts to publicize the success he claims. He has called news conferences in Dallas, and he telephoned The New York Times seeking attention for his cause.
"Donahue" executives say Dr. Neill's list of offenses takes subjects out of context. Among the list of sexually oriented material he cites from shows taped from late 1991 to mid-1992, are four teen-age topless dancers, mother-daughter stripper teams, married couples describing their mate swapping and a sadomasochistic mistress talking about her cages for sex slaves.
"Donahue" is hardly the only daytime talk show that deals with sexual topics, and Dr. Neill, who acknowledges that he does not know much about television, said he took aim at "Donahue" only because that was the show he happened to see.
His effort is the latest example of viewers' taking action to oppose what they consider offensive material on television. Four years ago a Michigan housewife, Terry Rakolta, took on the Fox show "Married . . . With Children" by talking to advertisers, and she received some support from them.
Other campaigns, usually by religious groups, have been more organized.But Dr. Neill said in a phone interview that his was not a religious cause, "though I do go to church regularly." He also said his motivation was not political, "though Phil is at the opposite end of the political spectrum from me; I'm a Rush Limbaugh man."
Many advertising industry executives express concern that if viewers who do not like what they see continue to take aim at advertisers, there might be a chilling effect on the introduction of any sort of controversial subject matter.
But Allen Banks, executive vice president of media for Saatchi & Saatchi, said Dr. Neill's campaign could be described as a form of democracy in action. "I kind of like the idea that one person who doesn't like what he sees can take a stand on principle and have this kind of impact," he said.
Besides, Mr. Banks, said, Mr. Donahue and other daytime hosts may have been risking just such a reaction. "It is because Donahue has stooped to stuff like this, because television in general has stooped to this point, that a campaign like this can have an effect," he said.
So far, "Donahue" has suffered no economic fallout from the advertiser defections, said Robert Turner, president of Multimedia Entertainment, the program's syndicator. He said advertising revenue had increased this season.
"Some advertisers have dropped out," Mr. Turner said. "But a new sponsor, Procter & Gamble, has come in in a big way." And he said Mr. Donahue had no intention of changing the content of his show.
Kraft/General Foods dropped "Donahue" last summer, said Michael Mudd, the vice president for corporate communications, mainly because "it seemed that the majority of the shows were going in the direction of sexually gratuitous material."
Dr. Neill has sent letters to current advertisers, naming those who have dropped out. But some of the former advertisers listed object to this.
"I'm really angry about his using our company that way," said Carol Kirby, vice president of marketing for Baskin-Robbins. "I don't endorse Dr. Neill's campaign. I certainly don't endorse that kind of blackmail."
Mr. Mudd said Kraft "did have some discussions with Dr. Neill, but we had already been looking at 'Donahue' as a show with problems."
"We objected to his using our name to imply that he was involved in our decision," Mr. Mudd added.
But other advertisers said Dr. Neill had shown them the way, and some said it was all right for Dr. Neill to invoke them.
Stuart Greenblatt, director of corporate communications for Keebler, said: "I don't think that we're averse to his using our name. I don't know that if you polled many media people, they wouldn't have this reaction. This is pretty sick stuff."
Mr. Banks of Saatchi & Saatchi said the issue was broader than whether the "Donahue" show might be affected economically by Dr. Neill. "We grapple with this problem all the time," he said. "There's a difference between rocking the boat with some thoughtful subject that's being discussed in a serious way, and any subject being discussed. If an advertiser sees something inappropriate for them to be associated with, they should be able to make the decision to drop out without feeling they're deserting the greater good of television. If Phil got out of these subjects, he'd have a better show anyway."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: DONAHUE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (82%); GIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (82%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (82%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (82%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (82%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); TEXAS, USA (73%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; DONOHUE, PHIL; NEILL, RICHARD (DR) PHILIP JOHN 'PHIL' DONAHUE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



656 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Fixated on Texas and No Apologies

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Feb. 21

 BODY:
Ross Perot showed up on the cover of Texas Monthly last year caricatured as Alfred E. Neuman, along with the headline, "What, Me President?" Gov. Ann W. Richards came along the next month in a much-doctored photograph, leather-jacketed and straddling a Harley-Davidson. "White Hot Mama," the magazine called her.
When the state's economy took a dive in the 1980's, Texas Monthly was right there with a helpful feature, "Life Styles of the Rich and Bankrupt (How Texans Go Bust Without Going Broke)." And it's not as if the magazine only cares about politics and finance. "Hats Off to Big Hair! A Tribute to a Texas Classic" was a recent cover story. 
 But if one cover symbolizes why Texas Monthly has survived as so many other regional magazines collapsed in recent years, it might be this month's, on an issue that celebrates the magazine's 20th anniversary. A globe swirls through the universe with a single, large land mass on it -- the state of Texas.
The magazine has endured in part because its founder and publisher, Michael R. Levy, insisted on a single focus -- a consuming, if not exactly reverent, interest in all things Texan. And many of its employees and readers cite a broader reason behind its commercial success -- the way Texans view themselves.
"There is a difference between a Texan and a New Englander," said Joseph Nocera, who has written for both Texas Monthly and New England Monthly, which is now defunct. "A person in Massachusetts does not define himself first and foremost as a New Englander, whereas a person who lives in Dallas or San Antonio or Amarillo is very likely to define himself pre-eminently as a Texan. That is something very important."
 
Refusal to Be a Casualty
 The regional-magazine market has claimed victims across the country in recent years, from California magazine to New England Monthly, with Rocky Mountain, Southern and others in between. But Texas Monthly, with a circulation of 309,000 and advertising revenue that approached $18 million last year (up 6.5 percent from 1991), is very much alive.
State and regional magazines "are usually a disaster," said Martin S. Walker, chairman of a Manhattan-based magazine consulting firm, Walker Communications. "Advertisers generally don't target states. They target major metropolitan market areas."
Many city-based magazines, including the ones named after New York and Los Angeles, have prospered, Mr. Walker added, because of their natural advertising base and because it is easier to find a common base of reader interest.
"But can you imagine trying to do a magazine in New York State that would appeal to people in New York City and Buffalo and Schenectady all at the same time?" he said.
Texas Monthly, though, which began its third decade with a black-tie-and-boots bash here Saturday night, does the equivalent. Lawrence Wright, a longtime writer for the magazine, said it had managed both to tap into and to feed Texas's perception of itself as "a place apart, kind of like the Quebec of America."
"Texas is like a sub-nation," said Mr. Wright, who recently left to become a staff writer at The New Yorker. "It's really wired itself that way, and Texas Monthly is part of the matrix that draws it together."
And Daniel Okrent, who left as president of Texas Monthly Press to found New England Monthly in 1984, said one problem he faced was the lack of "common institutions" in New Englanders' lives.
"There are certain Texas institutions that everybody has reason to be concerned with -- the governor, the university, the oil industry," said Mr. Okrent, now the editor of Life magazine, going on to add less seriously, "cowboy hats and big boots."
"That's less true in New England," he said, adding that the problem extended to the critical task of luring regionwide advertisers as well. "Once you get past Jordan Marsh and Filene's, those things don't exist," he said. New England Monthly went out of business in 1990.
If anybody ought to know the perils of trying to reproduce the Texas Monthly success elsewhere, it is Mr. Levy, the magazine's brazen, balding publisher. He bought New West magazine in 1980, changed the name to California, and promptly lost, by all accounts, a lot of money.
"It was a major debacle," Mr. Levy said cheerfully in his Austin office, though he refused to disclose either the exact losses or the terms of his sale of a minority share of Texas Monthly in 1987 to Dow Jones & Company to pay them off.
"We were dumb," he said. "The state is different than Texas. We really thought California was a cohesive community of interests -- you know, Southern California, Northern California, it's all California. It's not. It's more like Bosnia and Herzegovina."
What Mr. Levy says he learned is this: "If you can do one thing, do it well." Altogether, Texas Monthly has won seven National Magazine Awards, the industry equivalent of a Pulitzer Prize.
Both the layout and the writing are lively. Nicholas Lemann, a former executive editor, describes it as having "very high editorial quality with very low snob appeal -- it's a magazine written for a world of smart people who don't worry about whether they're ordering the right wine." (Perhaps. But the coming issue does have a feature on the right clothes to wear for an "encounter with the Texas wilderness.")
 
Tacky? No, Truly Absurd
 If there are few sacred steers in Texas Monthly, there are plenty of Bum Steers -- which is the name of an annual feature that celebrates "the best of the worst" in the state.
Some winners in recent years have included the East Texas entrepreneur who announced plans for a drive-though funeral parlor where motorists could view the deceased without leaving their cars; an Exxon subsidiary that described the odor of a newly developed diesel fuel as "a strong, fruity fragrance accentuated with floral top notes," and the Texas mother accused of hiring someone to assassinate her daughter's chief rival for a cheerleading spot.
That the focus of the magazine is so purely Texan has long been a source of staff dissension. Some writers argue that it should expand into a sort of Texas-based national magazine that addressed non-Lone Star topics.
But Mr. Levy, 46, and Gregory Curtis, who followed William Broyles Jr. as only the second top editor in the magazine's history, have staunchly resisted. "Everything in the magazine," Mr. Curtis said, "is about Texas, one way or another. Period."
Even many of those who argued with Mr. Curtis about the magazine's focus are now willing to admit that his instincts were probably wise. "But you have to understand, Texas felt a million percent different in 1981," said Mr. Lemann, who as the 26-year-old executive editor at the time was one of those firmly pushing for expansion. "It was incredibly ambitious. There was a sense that Texas was the rising region of the country."
Of course, the oil bust changed all that, and the magazine's horizons receded along with the state's. Today Mr. Lemann, an author and correspondent for The Atlantic who is still a contributing editor to Texas Monthly, acknowledges: "Perhaps my idea of Texas as the centerpiece of America was a little unrealistic. I can still make the case, though. All three Presidential candidates this last year were Texan. Or bordering Texan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If you can do one thing, do it well," said Michael R. Levy, right, founder and publisher of Texas Monthly. At left is Gregory Curtis, editor of the magazine, which celebrates its 20th anniversary this year. (Zigy Kaluzny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS MONTHLY (MAGAZINE) TEXAS MONTHLY INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS MONTHLY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: PROTZMAN, FERDINAND; LEVY, MICHAEL R; CURTIS, GREGORY

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



657 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Coffee Romance Leads to a Hit Book

BYLINE: By SUZANNE CASSIDY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
In the United States, the serial television commercials for Taster's Choice coffee have attracted a fair amount of interest. But in Britain, where the soap opera-like commercials originated more than five years ago, they have become something of a national obsession. 
 The ads, now approaching their 12th episode (there have been five in the United States), are for Gold Blend, as the coffee is known here. And they have come in for the sort of attention ordinarily reserved for royal romances.
In December, when The Sun, Britain's biggest-selling daily tabloid, discovered that the yuppie male character in the commercial was finally going to tell the female yuppie character that he loved her, it splashed the news across its front page.
And when, earlier this month, "Love Over Gold," a paperback novel inspired by the commercials, was published, even the country's quality press had a caffeine fit.
 
When Yucky Is Forgivable
 The Independent, a newspaper that normally displays the calmness of a decaf drinker, decided that the occasion merited an editorial. It said that while the commercials might have a "heavy yuck factor," the publication of "Love Over Gold" was a triumph for Nestle U.K., the makers of Gold Blend, and for its advertising agency, McCann-Erickson.
It was, acknowledged Michael Freter, executive director of McCann-Erickson, more of a marketing triumph than a literary one. "Love Over Gold," he said, "is not going to have Charles Dickens turning over in his grave."
But literary quality, or the lack of it, has hardly stopped it from selling. After less than two weeks on bookstore shelves, "Love Over Gold" appeared on The Sunday Times's paperback fiction best-seller list today at No. 10.
Nicholas Clee, book-news editor of The Bookseller, a trade weekly, said he finds the commercials "very, very banal" and their characters "insufferably smug." Nevertheless, he said he could understand why Corgi Books, which published "Love Over Gold," proposed the book to Nestle.
The publishing industry, plagued by the recession, likes a few "sure-fire hits," Mr. Clee said, adding that "a book that spins off an advertisement which is seen by millions of people is very attractive."
 
Fish and Fish Again
 John Saddler, the senior editor at Corgi who dreamed up "Love Over Gold," said he had been inspired by a book titled "Fly Fishing" by J. R. Hartley, which was prompted by a television commercial for Britain's Yellow Pages. So successful was that book that its publisher, Stanley Paul, a subsidiary of Random House Ltd., recently issued a sequel, "J. R. Hartley Casts Again."
"Love Over Gold" was written by an established mystery writer, Susan Moody, under the pseudonym Susannah James. Using the British commercials as the framework for her story, Ms. James does write a happy ending for the Gold Blend couple. But it is by no means a certain one, so a sequel would not be impossible.
Neither Nestle nor Corgi would say if Nestle had shared the costs of producing "Love Over Gold" or would get a portion of any profits. Nestle's involvement, however, is evident in the design of the book: the Nescafe Gold Blend logo appears on the front and back covers, and the typeface of the title, rendered in red and gold, matches the logo on the Gold Blend jar. There is also an order form at the back of the book for compilation videotapes of the commercials.
 
Publicity Beyond Purchase Price
 And what the book has yielded in media coverage has made the exercise more than worthwhile for Nestle.
The campaign has been a "stunning success," said Dominic Mills, editor of Campaign, a weekly advertising journal. The company, he said, "could not have paid" for the coverage generated first by the on-screen romance and now by the book. It was probably worth "three or four times" what Nestle spent, he said .
What Nestle did spend was an average of $9.4 million a year on the British television campaign, a company spokesman, Allan Allbeury, said. That investment has yielded results: since October 1987, when the first commercial was shown, Gold Blend sales in Britain have risen by 40 percent, Mr. Allbeury said.
Now, to encourage sales of "Love Over Gold," he said, Nestle, at a cost of $1.4 million, will run two-minute montages of the 11 Gold Blend commercials on British television through Thursday.
This marriage of literature and advertising may seem strange to some, but it is something Mr. Mills expects to see more of.
"It is just a question of finding the right product," he said. "There are only certain products for which it is appropriate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Love Over Gold" was No. 10 yesterday on a British best-seller list of paperback fiction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LOVE OVER GOLD (BOOK)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: TASTER'S CHOICE NESTLE SA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TASTER'S CHOICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (88%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%); BESTSELLERS (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); WRITERS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SPORT FISHING (60%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (57%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (53%); 

PERSON: CASSIDY, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



658 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Sell Bills and Notes This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week begins with the regular weekly auction today of new three- and six-month bills. Two-year notes will be auctioned on Tuesday, followed by a five-year note auction on Wednesday.
Traders said that by late in the day on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 2.91 percent and the rate on a six-month bill was 3.00 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year issue was being offered at a price to yield 4.01 percent and the five-year to yield 5.29 percent. 
 The following fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
MONDAY
Philadelphia Electric Co., $250 million of first and refunding mortgage bonds in two parts, $150 million due in 2003, $100 million due in 2023. Baa-1/BBB+/BBB+. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Rockland Electric, $20 million in first-mortgage bonds due in 2000. A-2/A+/NR. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior S.N.C., $200 million of notes due in 2000. B-3/B/NR. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Consolidated Cigar Acquisition Corp., $85 million of senior subordinated debentures due in 2003, B-3/B/NR. First Boston Corp.
Inter-City Products Corp., $125 million of senior secured notes due in 2000, Ba-3/NR/NR. Citibank.
Weirton Steel Corp., $125 million in senior notes due in 1998, B-2/B/NR. Lehman Brothers.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's/Duff & Phelps.
 
TAX EXEMPTS
 
TUESDAY
Sacramento, Calif., $120 million of general-obligation utility bonds. Competitive.
Illinois, $100 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Wake County, N.C., $123.1 million of general-obligation utility bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Delaware, $55 million of general-obligation utility bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Columbus, Ohio, $82.4 million in general-obligation refunding bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Connecticut, $225 million of special tax-obligation refunding transportation infrastructure bonds. Reinoso & Co.
Houston, $236 million of public improvement refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Indianapolis, $86.9 million of gas utility system revenue refunding bonds. Lazard Freres & Co.
Intermountain Power Agency, $600 million of power supply revenue refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Jacksonville (Fla.) Electric Authority, $400 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
Lee County (Fla.) School Board, $85 million of certificates of participation. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Massachusetts, $450 million of general-obligation bonds. First Boston.
Michigan, $900 million of full faith and credit general-obligation notes. Bear, Stearns.
Sam Rayburn (Tex.) Municipal Power Agency, $87.6 million in refunding revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Tennessee Housing Development Agency, $80 million of home ownership program bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Transmission Agency of Northern California, $200 million of California and Oregon revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%); EXC (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (70%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS333414 HEATING EQUIPMENT (EXCEPT WARM AIR FURNACES) MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC3433 HEATING EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT ELECTRIC & WARM AIR FURNACES (67%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (76%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); EXELON CORP (70%); PECO ENERGY CO (70%); BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR SNC (68%); INTERNATIONAL COMFORT PRODUCTS CORP (67%); WEIRTON STEEL CORP (66%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); INTERMOUNTAIN POWER AGENCY (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



659 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: The Right Budget Track, Mostly

 BODY:
The Clinton economic plan envisions an America that provides "rising living standards for all its citizens." The lofty goal may not be reached. But that should not detract from President Clinton's achievement: He has put forward a credible, honest plan for government, after 12 years of less-than-benign neglect, to help put America's economic house in order.
Mr. Clinton's vision stakes out three objectives: speed recovery to put millions of Americans back to work as soon as possible; cut the long-term deficit to pump money into private capital markets; and retarget Government spending away from consumption and toward investment. 
 The plan -- which has gained important backing from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman -- moves on all three fronts. However, Mr. Clinton's political antennae kept him from doing more, faster. There's room for Congress to improve the plan. But it would be just fine to adopt the plan as is and fine-tune later.
Stimulating Recovery: Unemployment is higher now than when the recession ended almost two years ago. And the number of unemployed workers who will never regain their old jobs is near record levels. Mr. Clinton proposes a two-year, $30 billion stimulus package, split evenly between spending hikes and tax cuts for private investors.
To make a sizable dent in unemployment, the package would need to be twice that size in each of the next two years. And there is a danger the plan could make matters worse. Deficit reductions kick in early next year when the economy may still be too sick to weather the blow. Congress could improve the plan by legislating the deficit cuts now, but phasing them in starting in 1995.
Cutting the Deficit: Mr. Clinton's cuts are substantial and fair.
Take 1997, the end of Mr. Clinton's term, as a point of reference. The deficit would be cut from about $350 billion to $200 billion -- a fiscally safe target. And, unlike the numbers manufactured during the Reagan-Bush years, Mr. Clinton's estimates appear credible.
Under the plan, most new taxes would fall on the rich, who benefited the most from the tax party Mr. Reagan threw in the 1980's. The poor are protected. And middle-income families would pay a reasonable amount -- primarily about $100 to $150 a year in higher utility bills and gasoline prices.
Though fair, the specific proposal Mr. Clinton makes for taxing the rich creates a danger. Wealthy families would pay a tax of 40 percent or more on ordinary income but only 28 percent on capital gains income -- profit from the sale of investments. That difference will drive accountants to recreate tax shelters wiped out by the 1986 tax reform, which equalized rates on ordinary and capital gains income. The useless, but tax-subsidized, office buildings that litter the Southwest are sickening testimony to a code that rewarded investors who put their money where taxes were low rather than where productivity was high.
Spurring Investment: In 1997, Mr. Clinton proposes spending cuts and tax hikes totaling $200 billion. Yet the deficit would fall by only $150 billion. The difference -- about $50 billion -- is used to subsidize private investors and pay for new public investments. Here, Mr. Clinton would spend thinly rather than deeply, on highways, education, worker training, childhood preventive care and many other initiatives. Creative ideas from the campaign -- like national service -- would get short shrift.
Investing an extra $50 billion in a $6 trillion economy might not seem like a big deal. And tolerating deficits of $200 billion or more may seem cowardly. Indeed, the programs won't pay off big next year, or even next decade.
But what's important about the plan is its new direction. Washington will consume a bit less, invest a bit more. Private citizens will do likewise. After a couple of decades, the difference can be dramatic.
Americans once saw their living standards double every generation. At current rates of saving and investment, it would take a century or more. Small increases in savings and investment can eventually mean the difference between superpower and economic has-been. Just ask Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (86%); FAMILY (78%); RECESSION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TAX REFORM (65%); UTILITY RATES (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



660 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Calling a Tail a Leg

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If you call a tail a leg, went the riddle attributed to Lincoln, how many legs has a dog? The answer: four, "because calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg."
Red-eyed with lack of sleep, racing to make a self-imposed deadline like bright students cramming before an exam, the Clintonites slapped together a dog's breakfast of a budget proposal -- and did not like what they saw. 
 The trouble was that it was all tax increases and -- except for a huge extra whack at defense that they knew had no chance of getting past Senator Sam Nunn -- very few spending cuts. And the people had voted for spending cuts to reduce the deficit.
So Clinton decided to call a tail a leg. This required moving a bunch of items out of column A, "tax increases," and over to column B, "spending cuts." It wasn't honest accounting, but when you are in an impossible bind and it's late at night, you do what you have to do.
That's when the Clinton proposal to tax an additional 35 percent of Social Security benefits to those over 65 who continue to work, or who were foolish enough to have saved money for their old age, went through a miraculous name change. The additional tax was no longer to be known by the harsh word "tax"; instead, it was to be called by the admired term "spending cut." Lloyd Bentsen at Treasury attempted a convoluted rationale for this sleight of hand that embarrassed his friends.
Same trick was tried with uncapping the sum on which the Medicare tax was levied, thereby raising the tax take on the highest bracket to 43 percent. It's a tax rise, plain and simple, squeezing $12 billion out of those committing the egalitarian sin of earning money, but -- behind the blue smoke and mirrors -- there it appears, labeled "spending cut."
Why the chicanery, so transparent that not even the budget chief, Leon Panetta, could bring himself to defend it on "Meet the Press" yesterday? Because Clintonites had first promised two dollars in cuts for every new dollar in taxes, and then backed off to "rough balance" -- but in the end they had produced no balance, rough or otherwise. On the contrary, only after four dollars are snatched out of taxpayers' pockets do we see one dollar cut -- and that cut is not guaranteed.
In 60 days, the other shoe is scheduled to drop: the Hillary supplemental, with subsidies for 37 million uninsured people to be paid out of taxes on cigarettes, wine and beer and guns. And if a pistol-packing, butt-puffing Joe Sixpack cannot pay that $90 billion freight all by himself, on comes a national sales tax.
Did we vote for this? Did Bill Clinton talk about it during his campaign, except to denounce predictions of tax-and-spend economics as "shameful"?
Of course not; not for him the Walter Mondale route in 1984, blurting out publicly an intention to raise taxes. Such honesty is for losers; winners zip their lip and "discover" ever-growing deficits after the election, claiming then to be shocked, shocked at the need to raise taxes while increasing nondefense spending.
Will it fly? The polls show the customary enthusiasm for a new President who exudes energy even as he proposes taxing it. We like seeing those lights burning late, the resilient young President campaigning for his cause, whatever it is; fogies old and young find it fun to shake up the boring status quo. We tend to forgive early mistakes and little deceptions, hoping they won't grow into major blunders and a pattern of lies.
But Bill Clinton and his team, half starry-eyed and half bleary-eyed, are stumbling into an ideology that is as bad for them as it is for the nation. Does he realize where "Clintonism," as it is developing, is taking him? Price control, paternalism and protectionism lead to inflation, recession and general dismay.
Americans love the idea of Change and hate radical changes. We want a sense of movement without getting involved in a Movement.
It would be hard for any politician to prevent 1993 from being a good year, just as it will be hard to prevent Bill Clinton from attributing this year's upturn to his own election and slapdash proposals.
Stop him, Democrats, before his desire to be different combines with his talent at telemarketing to lead your party into the black hole of statism. He calls his inchoate ideology "the new direction," but calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); MEDICARE (70%); BEER & ALE (66%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LEON E PANETTA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



661 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
The Two Clintons

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
One quality above all made President Clinton's economic speech a stunning success as he delivered it. That was the self-confidence he radiated. When he ad-libbed jabs at mocking Republicans, there was an inner security that brought Franklin Roosevelt to mind.
That quality made the Clinton speech much more effective than was perceived in the blinkered vision of Washington. In Washington it brought warning that this or that interest group would be offended. In the country most people admired Mr. Clinton's courage in asking them to do hard things. 
 What is curious is that alongside that Bill Clinton there is another: a politician fearful of offending public opinion, one who will scuttle principle to protect himself from possible political damage.
It was the second Clinton who flew to Arkansas from the New Hampshire primary in January 1992 to reject the final clemency appeal of Rickey Ray Rector, a murderer who had shot away much of his own brain and been reduced to a state of mental vacuity.
In a chilling account of the case in The New Yorker last week, Marshall Frady said Governor Clinton had told a friend on the night of the execution: "It's just awful. Just terrible, terrible." But he let the mental defective be executed; and he flew home, rather than let the Lieutenant Governor deny clemency, to show how tough he was on capital punishment.
The second Bill Clinton is strikingly in evidence now, on a legal and political question stemming from the military repression in Haiti. The question is whether the United States should, and legally can, send refugees back to Haiti without giving them a chance to show that they would be in danger there because of their political views.
Last year candidate Clinton denounced President Bush's decision to intercept Haitians at sea and summarily send them back. On May 27 he said: "I am appalled by the decision of the Bush Administration to pick up fleeing Haitians on the high seas and forcibly return them to Haiti before considering their claim to political asylum. This process must not stand."
In July, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that the Bush policy violated a 1980 U.S. law forbidding the return of "any alien" to a country where his "life or freedom would be threatened." Mr. Clinton said the court was "right" to overturn the "cruel policy of returning Haitian refugees to a brutal dictatorship without an asylum hearing."
When he was asked about the issue after the election, on Nov. 12, he said his position was clear: "We should have a process in which these Haitians get a chance to make their case."
Since taking office, of course, Mr. Clinton has continued the Bush policy of intercepting Haitians at sea and summarily returning them. And now he is apparently going to have his Administration tell the Supreme Court that the policy is lawful despite the flat language of the 1980 law.
The Supreme Court, having agreed to review the Second Circuit decision of last July, is going to hear argument in the case on March 2, next Tuesday. And the indications are that a Justice Department lawyer will say the 1980 act covers only aliens "within the United States," although Congress in 1980 dropped those words from an earlier statute.
The issue is not just a narrow one of how to read a statute. The 1980 American law conforms with the U.N. Refugee Convention, which was drafted to make sure that there would be no repetition of the 1930's, when boatloads of fleeing Jews were forced back to Nazi Germany.
President Clinton has changed his position without a show of serious explanation. He said, "There is a difference between political and economic refugees." But how can you tell if you send people back without asking? Before the Bush interception policy U.S. authorities had found a substantial percentage of fleeing Haitians to be genuine political refugees.
The reason for the switch is sadly evident. Mr. Clinton senses a mood of xenophobia in the country. He fears he will be hurt politically if he lets poor black foreigners in, even to save them from persecution and possible death.
The absence of an Attorney General has no doubt made it easier for politics to prevail over law on this issue. But it is not too late for the President to make his policy conform with the purpose of the 1980 law -- and with the demands of decency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ELECTION ISSUES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); REFUGEES (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); APPEALS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); MURDER (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



662 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Now Ask What High Rollers Can Do for Deficit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I want to applaud President Clinton for submitting an economic plan in his State of the Union Message that seems based on justice rather than fairness (front page, Feb. 18).
Earlier statements that sacrifice would be borne evenly indicated that this would not be the case -- that all income levels would have to pay their fair share of the deficit. But the plan Mr. Clinton proposed last Wednesday night seems to be a just plan, in which those who benefited most from the national borrowing spree will participate most in returning the country to solvency. 
 I received a negative benefit from the excessive Government spending of the 1980's, and I feel that I have already made several payments on a national recovery.
I paid once when my position at a national nonprofit agency was eliminated as contributions dwindled in a recession induced, in part, by such Government-sanctioned schemes as leveraged buyouts and junk bonds, as well as by a savings and loan fraud whose potentially calamitous effects were reduced with taxpayer money.
I paid again as I retrained for college teaching, living on a $7,000-a-year graduate assistant stipend, supplemented with occasional adjunct teaching at $1,000 a course. I am still paying as the interest on my savings account hovers at 2 percent and the equity in my house decreases.
And I am one of the lucky ones. I changed careers in my 50's. Several friends and relatives are working part time or not at all. They have lost up to 15 years of gainful employment, years they planned to use to accumulate savings for their retirement. Taxing Social Security benefits more will unjustly subject them to a double payment on the national debt.
Most of us agree with President Clinton that our country cannot continue to operate with a negative balance sheet. But we also know that there is a lot of wealth in this country that could be tapped to reduce the deficit -- wealth that was partly accumulated through a tax structure and legal loopholes that benefited a small minority. It is time for that minority to express its appreciation for the national benevolence largely responsible for their affluence. A just economic policy would insure this.
I am sure those of us caught in the middle for most of our working years will shoulder our share and willingly contribute to the country's recovery. But we would like that share to be determined through a policy that recognizes the degree to which some segments of society benefited from the deficit we are all being asked to reduce.
 
JANICE M. CORBETT
Malvern, Pa., Feb. 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (85%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



663 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Now Ask What High Rollers Can Do for Deficit;
Health Care Wipeout?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
President Clinton's State of the Union Message was remarkable for its breadth, vision and the compelling salesmanship of his message (front page, Feb. 18). However, until Hillary Rodham Clinton reveals her health care program, the jury is out on the program's economic implications. 
 The cost of the Federal Government's providing a comprehensive safety net health care insurance program is estimated between $30 billion and $90 billion a year. Such a program would wipe out all the estimated budget deficit savings outlined.
In addition, of the $260 billion of expenditure cuts proposed by President Clinton, approximately $70 billion represents expected interest rate savings over four years from issuing more short-term Government debt and expected overall interest rate declines. What happens if interest rates go back up in the future?
The message of the electorate last November was a mandate for change, economic revival, a reduced budget deficit, and less and more efficient government. President Clinton is hoping to steer the public toward supporting more Federal Government involvement in new programs in education, job training and health care. The message that he gets back from the middle class might be, "Yes, you have indeed identified some problem areas, but couldn't many of these be handled by the private sector, with incentives like tax credits?"
 
THOMAS S. GILBERT
New York, Feb. 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); INSURANCE (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



664 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Now Ask What High Rollers Can Do for Deficit;
Grand Old Hypocrisy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It was fascinating to listen to Republican Congressional reaction to President Clinton's speech. G.O.P. lawmakers spoke about cutting Government spending, intelligent oversight of programs and being fiscally responsible before raising taxes. 
 Why didn't they think about these things when they were the majority in Congress? These are the same people who stood by during the last 12 years and allowed the deficit to grow even larger, who allowed the illegalities of the Bank of Credit and Com
merce scandal and the savings and loan debacle to add billions to our indebtedness, who padded Federal bureaus with nonfunctioning workers and specious projects, whose fiscal programs benefited special interests and who showed a lack of concern for the average citizen's welfare.
Thank goodness we did not re-elect George Bush, who toured the country at the end of the campaign offering millions in pork-barrel goodies as a lure to voters. If Mr. Bush and the Republicans were in charge now, we would be running Government in the same old way and headed for catastrophe.
 
ELAINE HENDRIE
Bellport, L.I., Feb. 18, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



665 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Now Ask What High Rollers Can Do for Deficit;
Uncle Ron's Fancy Pool

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "There They Go Again" (Op-Ed, Feb. 18), Ronald Reagan doesn't understand even yet why President Clinton's economic program, including some rigorous spending cuts, is urgently necessary. After all, he writes, the 1980's were the "longest period of peacetime economic expansion in our history." 
 It's the debt, Mr. Reagan. Imagine a movie in which Uncle Ron buys us all a new car and a swimming pool, and then can't understand why we're not happy -- just because he used our children's credit card to do the buying! How does the movie end? Well, sir, that depends on whether those of us in the cast are basically selfish people or (in a tough-minded way) basically generous and provident people.
 
PHILIP JUSTIN SMITH
Highland Park, Ill., Feb. 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



666 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO BASKETBALL;
In Miami's Wali Jones, The N.B.A. Discovers It Has a Conscience

BYLINE: By Harvey Araton

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY

 BODY:
Anyone here with a young Horace Grant fan at home could be an instant hit by returning with a pair of red goggles that replicate the futuristic look of the Bulls' hard-working forward. As of yesterday afternoon, there were still plenty remaining for the non-negotiable price of $66.
"You mean $16," an interested purchaser corrected the salesman at the raucous All-Star store set up by the National Basketball Association this weekend. 
 "No, $66," said the salesman. "It's official N.B.A. merchandise."
In other words, it had the stamp of league approval, like the $250 basketball that was pumped with air and branded with the logo by some flesh-eating contraption as you waited. For a hipper athletic fashion statement, there was a $350 jacket, with logo, or the $1,500 leather version, targeted for those looking to drop some heavy cash before the feds begin demanding more.
There was, of course, the old standby for average Americans, the All-Star T-shirt, but even those began at $18, more than one veteran of the Barcelona Olympics remembers the standard T-shirt going for last summer. At least that event was quadrennial.
A welcome addition to the N.B.A. All-Star Game weekend in recent years has been the Stay in School program, which challenges kids from the host city to strive for perfect attendance in exchange for various All-Star goodies. But if those kids happened to have wandered into the All-Star store, the message instead was this: Stay in school; you're going to need a good job to afford these products.
Granted, the N.B.A. is not in business to save the world, although its global expansion is an act of divinity if it's impeding the spread of American football. Yesterday's game was beamed off the satellite to 118 countries and the news media covering the all stars was as international as that which followed the Dream Team.
But as the N.B.A. grows rich beyond its wildest dreams, its first and foremost social obligation is to the cities that have propped this league up and provided so much of its talent base.
Wali Jones, the former Philadelphia 76er and Milwaukee Buck long-range shooter who helped organize the first Stay in School program four years ago in Miami, had an idea how to at least seriously address the N.B.A.'s burgeoning gap between capitalist gain and social reponsibility. He has no problem with college dropouts like Shaquille O'Neal advising 18,000 kids at the Delta Center the other day to stay in school. The real contribution, said Jones, is doing something to help them learn something while they're there.
Again and again, the voices of superstars like Michael Jordan and Charles Barkley are heard to complain that they are entertainers, not role models for kids, which is for parents. That's logical, Jones argues, but it's not altogether practical.
"I don't care what people say ought to be," said Jones, from a Philadelphia family of nine. "The reality is that 18 percent of all children in this country do not live with a biological parent, and it's much higher in the inner city. Kids are impressionable, like it or not, and if you can get their attention with an athlete, then at least you've got their attention."
Four years ago, Jones's old 76er teammate, Billy Cunningham, offered him a position with the Miami Heat as community-relations director. This was hardly the case of extending an ex-teammate a handout. Wherever Jones was playing during his N.B.A. career between 1964 and 1976, he was working toward degrees in economics and psychology. He went to Miami with his program, the Shooting Stars, and he has no problem reporting its success.
"What I do is go to school every day," said Jones, having survived the Legends game Saturday, although, at 51, he looked in better shape than younger retirees like Otis Birdsong and Maurice Lucas. "We get 200 or so in an auditorium and I get their attention. Kids aren't stupid. Kids are lazy. We offer them rewards to do better. I sign them up."
In four years, he said, he has recruited 20,000 students from middle school through high school. Forms are given out through the school. Grades are reported every quarter. Rewards for improved grades come in various forms, like tickets to Heat games, concerts, sneakers, caps, T-shirts. According to the documentation Jones's staff has done, there has been a 67 percent improvement by the students in the program.
"This is Miami, so we're talking about Haitians to Cubans to Bolivians to Afro-Americans," said Jones. "I ask them, 'How many of you want to be professional athletes?' Almost all the hands go right up. That's when I bring in all the people we use who didn't make it but got an education and wound up with a good job.
"From my experience, these kids want challenges. They want goals. Are there bad kids in the school? Yeah, there are bad kids. But people who are saying the whole generation is lost are coping out. We have high school kids now who are going into the middle schools. Guess who becomes the role model? The older kids."
Who supplies the merchandise for Jones's program? Four years ago, the Heat donated it all. Then corporations started calling. Yes, Jones told them, if they purchase the caps and shirts, they can have "commercial considerations." Now that's an All-Star deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (91%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (70%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH) UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (91%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (70%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; ALL-STAR GAMES BASKETBALL (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



667 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
A Sweet Lou Primer On Marge and Loyalty

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ariz., Feb. 21

 BODY:
Lou Piniella's departure from the Cincinnati Reds occurred last October, but it began a year earlier.
"It was time for me to move on," Piniella said Saturday, sitting in his office here at the Seattle Mariners' new spring-training site. "I didn't like some of the things that were done there, and as a manager, I had a chance to come back or move on and I chose to move on." 
 Marge Schott, the Reds' owner, offered Piniella a two-year contract extension, but it was what she didn't offer in 1991 that precipitated his departure.
"It just wasn't fun," Piniella, the Mariners' new manager, said, speaking generally of the latter part of his three-year tenure as manager in Cincinnati. Then he cited the specific incident that prompted his decision to leave.
"The biggest thing that didn't leave a good taste was what happened when I had the problem with the umpires," he related, speaking in a 90-minute interview. "When I got sued by the umpires, I got no backing from the organization. That started the wheels turning. I think any organization would back their manager. I got nothing, financial or anything. I went back in '92 and fulfilled my contract, but when it came time to extend, I chose not to."
In August 1991, Piniella became enraged when Gary Darling, the home-plate umpire in a game against San Francisco, reversed a ruling by another umpire and deprived the Reds' Bill Doran of a home run. After the game, Piniella, he of the legendary temper, said that Darling was biased against the Reds. Two months later, Darling and the Major League Umpires Association filed a $5 million defamation suit against Piniella.
"I realize I didn't say the right thing," Piniella said. "It was in the heat of battle. But I got no backing. It got in my craw. That was the big thing."
 
Spent Own Money
 If such an incident had occurred when Piniella managed the Yankees, from 1986 to 1988, George Steinbrenner, a boisterous critic of umpires, would probably have hired the best lawyers -- plural -- for Piniella and supported him with his own statements about the umpires' incompetence. But Schott, who on Feb. 3 was suspended from baseball for a year because of her demeaning racial and ethnic comments, has never had a history of expending money or words on her employees' behalf.
As one of her former employees explained today, she reasoned that she didn't make the comment about Darling and therefore shouldn't have had to spend her money on a lawyer to defend Piniella. So Piniella spent his own money on a lawyer and the conflict was settled, with the lawsuit being dropped and the manager's issuing a statement praising umpires in general and Darling in particular, saying he regretted making comments "that may have maligned his character in any way."
Now, at the age of 49, with six years of managing behind him, Piniella has a new job with a three-year contract. He did not remain unemployed long once he informed Schott he would not return to Cincinnati, although he had no job guarantee when he acted.
 
Willing to Take Risks
 "My wife asked, 'What if you don't get another job?' " Piniella related. "I wasn't sure I would get one. Who knows? There are only 28 jobs. It was possible I could never have managed again. You have to take chances. If you're not willing to take chances, you never know."
If the Mariners or another team hadn't offered him a job, Piniella said, he was confident he could have found something to do in baseball. If not, the business world awaited. After his first season with the Reds, the one in which the team was in first place from first day to last, then breezed through the pennant playoff and the World Series, he told Schott he was prepared to become a businessman if she didn't raise his salary. She did, nearly doubling it, and he didn't.
"I think I could have been an assistant to the general manager in a scouting, consulting sort of way," he said.
 
Still Fond of Yankees
 If no one else had offered a job, Piniella is certain his old friend, Steinbrenner, would have.
"The Yankees still have a special place," he said. "I was there a long time. If George didn't take a chance on me managing, I wouldn't be a manager. I like the guy; I really do. He's a pistol. I'm sure he likes me."
But now Piniella is the Mariners' 10th manager in their 17-year existence, an existence that has produced little life, with only one winning season (1991), which was followed by a disastrous last-place, 64-98 finish.
Woody Woodward, the Mariners' general manager, wanted Piniella because Piniella has been a winner, as a player and a manager. Winning is a foreign word to the Mariners.
"This is a first-class organization," Piniella said of Seattle. "We just have to bring a winning tradition to it. Other people before me failed. Last year they took a big step backward. That's why I'm here basically. I expect us to play well. I'm not looking at it as a rebuilding process. I'm looking at it as establishing a winning tradition."
 
Blue-Collar Player
 As a player, Piniella was never a natural at anything, hitting, baserunning or playing the outfield. But intense work and concentration on his hitting mechanics made him a career .291 hitter, alertness made him a deceptively good baserunner and all-out effort enabled him to reach more fly balls than he was expected to catch. He made himself a winning player.
"It's a commitment, it's a dedication, it's a passion," he said, defining the start of a winning tradition. "You have to have the talent; the team has to be put together the right way, but I would describe it as a commitment and having pride in what you do."
Players, though, are the ones who create the winning, not the manager, he explained. As he talked, he took off the World Series ring he wore on his right hand. "I have my Yankee ring back on, the one from 1977," he said. "I'm back in the American League so I'll put my Yankee ring back on."
 
Leaves Bosses Suspended
 But isn't he proud of what he and the Reds accomplished in 1990?
"I'm very proud of '90," he responded. "I'm exceedingly proud of '90 -- what we accomplished and what the players did. But as a manager, I have to take a backseat. I'm there to supervise, hopefully contribute, but the players are the ones who deserve the credit."
Yet Piniella remains a compelling personality. Consider the most recent unique aspect of his career. In the wake of his departure from the Yankees, Steinbrenner was suspended. No sooner did he leave the Reds than Schott was suspended.
"Yeah," he said, breaking into his eye-closing grin, "one's coming off suspension, the other's going on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Piniella, right, the Mariners' new manager, speaking with General Manager Woody Woodward during the team's first practice last week. (Mike Scully for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (67%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS; SEATTLE MARINERS CINCINNATI REDS (74%); CINCINNATI REDS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (93%); CINCINNATI REDS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS; SEATTLE MARINERS CINCINNATI REDS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (93%); CINCINNATI REDS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (67%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASEBALL (92%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; PINIELLA, LOU MARGARET 'MARGE' SCHOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



668 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Debt, Taxes and a Politician's Downfall

BYLINE: By Fay Vincent; Fay Vincent, the former commissioner of baseball, will be living this spring at Lord Asquith's country home near Oxford, England.

 BODY:
Is Bill Clinton the second coming of John F. Kennedy? Franklin Delano Roosevelt? Or even Abraham Lincoln, whose bust is so proudly displayed on the new President's desk? Sorry. Maybe someday, but for now his real model isn't even an American.
Look to President Clinton's real roots and those of all the Rhodes scholars and Oxfordophiles in his Administration. English history gives us the best insight into the Clinton proposals and what lies ahead. In 1909, Lord Asquith was the Liberal Prime Minister, with Lloyd George as Chancellor of the Exchequer and Winston Churchill as head of the Board of Trade. 
 Influenced by both, Asquith proposed a budget intended to achieve significant social change. According to a new book by the historian Paul Addison, Churchill greatly affected the social policies, while Lloyd George held sway on fiscal matters.
The Government was facing familiar problems: a deficit, with revenue declining after a recession. The costs of old-age pensions were rising, and an arms race (with Germany) had taken its toll. Asquith's "reforms" included much higher taxes on the wealthy and estates and new levies on liquor licenses and spirits, tobacco, motor cars and gasoline.
There is more. Asquith proposed that income taxes increase on "unearned income," and there was to be a new "super tax" on the highest incomes. The Liberals were obviously attacking the wealthier classes in England, and the budget-making process was "a turbulent affair," Professor Addison writes.
Churchill, a man of property, had to explain the policies to his family and friends whose interests were threatened. The great man was not defensive.
He wrote: "Be sure of this -- after the taxes which this budget proposes are in force, our island will still be the best place in the world for rich people to dwell in." Nonetheless, opposition to the budget was vigorous, and the Liberals failed to win a majority in the 1910 election.
One can make too much of history. But Bill Clinton's proposals surely have their roots in the far-reaching radical social policies of the Liberal Party and its 1909 budget. Faced with a deficit, there is a certain predictability to the response.
Now we will see whether the debate over the Clinton Administration's proposals and the effect on the Democratic Party will resemble that of their historical parallel. And perhaps we will have to learn more English history to follow what these former Rhodes scholars are doing for us. Next we'll have to learn the words to "Rule Brittania."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (66%); 

PERSON: VINCENT, FAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993



669 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Asks U.N. Chief to Meet On Plan for Airdrop to Bosnians

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Clearly intent on moving ahead with plans for an airdrop of relief supplies into Bosnia and Herzegovina, President Clinton invited the United Nations Secretary General today to meet with him on Tuesday in an effort to win his support for the initiative, Administration officials said.
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, while not opposing the plan outright, is insisting that any relief operation be coordinated with, and under the command of, United Nations forces already in Bosnia. American officials say they have no problem coordinating with the United Nations but are clearly reluctant to cede military control of the operation. 
 The Clinton Administration has begun briefing influential Senators and Congressmen on Capitol Hill about its proposed relief operation, which appears to have bipartisan support. Administration officials have been telling the lawmakers privately, though, that they do not want to go ahead with any airlift without the expressed support of Mr. Boutros-Ghali, Western allies and the the Russians -- all of whom they believe can be brought around.
Some of the lawmakers said they were told that the Administration planned to use C-130 transport planes, dropping supplies from altitudes above 10,000 feet, and protected by American fighter escorts.
Beyond the stated aid objective of the operation -- to help 200,000 Bosnian Muslims cut off from food and medicine by Bosnian Serb militia forces -- the Administration also seems to have the political objective of enticing the Bosnian Muslim Government back to the negotiating table in New York with a strong show of American support.
The international mediators seeking to resolve the Balkan crisis have asked the Clinton Administration to grant immunity from lawsuits in the United States to the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, to encourage him to return to New York for a new round of peace talks later this week. [Page A8.]
 
Unfavorable Reaction Abroad
 Britain and France indicated today that they were unenthusiastic about the airdrop plan and the Russians are concerned that the relief operation might be construed as aimed against Serbia, historically a Russian ally.
Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who has long argued that if the United States really wanted to help the relief operation it should contribute trucks and troops to transport supplies on the ground, said that he would only support an airdrop being considered by Washington if it was fully authorized by, and under the command of, the United Nations relief coordinators on the ground.
Mr. Boutros-Ghali told reporters at the United Nations that "the authorization must be given by the United Nations so that the whole operation will continue to be centralized by the United Nations."
Who Will Command?
In a telephone interview later, the Secretary General said he would tell President Clinton that he would welcome United States participation in an airdrop operation "only as long as it is under United Nations command." The United Nations military commander in the region is General Satish Nambiar of India, commander of the United Nations Protection Force.
Mr. Boutros-Ghali warned that to introduce a wholly separate, unilateral, American-led mission in the region could "open a Pandora's box" that could complicate United Nations operations already underway.
The question of who exactly commands what will have to be finessed. This is in part because any American airdrop would involve fighter escorts that could be called upon to attack targets on the ground, if they open fire on slow-flying American transports, and it is highly unlikely that Washington would put such decision-making in the hands of a United Nations commander. It is possible that the relief operation could be under the nominal command of the United Nations, with Washington still reserving certain military decisions for itself.
 
U.S. Public Opinion
 The Secretary General also warned that a unilateral United States-run operation would be vulnerable to changes in American public opinion.
"Supposing that tomorrow an American plane is shot down?," the Secretary General asked. "What would be your position then?"
While making clear that he would support the airdrop effort if it is placed under United Nations authority, Mr. Boutros-Ghali raised doubts about how effective such a mission could be. He described such an operation as a "fall-back position" and said the ground convoys should remain the principal means of delivering assistance, which is also the position of the Clinton Administration.
Nevertheless, Mr. Boutros-Ghali added that the airdrop could be "important for the public relations point of view so that everybody knows we are doing something more."
Speaking to reporters during his visit to Seattle, President Clinton said he was close to a decision on the operation.
 
Clinton 'Still Consulting'
 "We're still consulting, we'll finish pretty soon," he said, adding that his agenda with Mr. Boutros-Ghali includes Bosnia, Somalia and a number of other issues.
While Administration officials have said they fully intend to coordinate with the United Nations, the United States delegate, Madeleine Albright, said the United States felt it had all the legal authorization it needed already. She said Security Council Resolution 770, adopted last August, permits the use of "all measures necessary" to deliver aid. "We believe we have authority under Resolution 770," she said.
Deputy Secretary of State Clifton Wharton told some lawmakers he briefed today that what the Clinton Administration is considering dropping pallets of food and medicine by parachute from C-130 transport aircraft flying at 10,000 feet, outside the range of Serbian antiaircraft guns. The slow-flying transports would by protected by American fighter aircraft.
 
U.S. Carrier Nearby
 The aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy, which carries F-14 fighters and F/A-18 attack jets, is currently in the Mediterranean and could easily move into the Adriatic Sea off the coast of the former Yugoslavia.
The proposed operation appears to have bipartisan support in Congress. Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, an influential member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he was briefed this morning on the relief mission by Mr. Wharton, "and I indicated that I am supportive of the idea."
"It is important that if the people out there are starving and if we can be of assistance, we ought to help, Senator Lugar said. "I have been told that they can fly the C-130's in at a high enough altitude so that they would be out of range of small-arms fire. There is some hazard, but it is an important humanitarian step and we just should do it if we can."
 
Challenge to U.N.<>HE>
Senator Joseph R. Biden, the Deleware Democrat who heads the Senate subcommittee on Europe, said in a statement that he supported the airlift proposal because, among other reasons, "it will challenge the United Nations, which six months ago called for all measures necessary to facilitate relief and then refused to empower United Nations relief forces to overcome Serbian intransigence."
Senator Biden added that "for a President with a compelling interest in revitalizing the American economy, this cannot be an easy decision, but it is the right one."
Representative Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who heads the House Foreign Relations Committee, said he thinks the proposed operation "is necessary, because determined efforts have to be made to relieve the humanitarian suffering." He added, "Our planes will have strong air cover, so the risk is small."
A British Defense Ministry official in London said there was "no great enthusiasm" in his office for the proposed American initiative. British Defense officials said they had drawn up emergency plans a year ago for such airdrops, but abandoned them as too dangerous.
"Airdrops are fine when you have masses of space as in Ethiopia or Somalia but that is not the case in Bosnia," the British Defense Ministry official said. "You cannot fly really low because of the risk of being hit from the ground so accuracy becomes difficult."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (86%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID ; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (65%); RELIGION (65%); IMMUNITY (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



670 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PROPOSES CHANGES IN POLICY TO AID TECHNOLOGY

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Feb. 22

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration announced today a broad new technology initiative that enthusiastically embraces Government and industry cooperation to create new technologies and nurture innovative small companies.
The program could lead to a significant change in the balance between civilian and military research and development and could generate new Government-industry consortiums modeled after a successful consortium created six years ago to help the flagging semiconductor industry. 
 "The underlying spirit is that it is time we got away from such an adversarial relationship between the Government and the private sector," said Dr. Jack Gibbons, the President's science adviser and the head of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. "Where our interests are mutual and line up, let's go for it."
 
Price: $17 Billion
 The technology initiative was outlined today by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore in an appearance before high-tech workers at the headquarters of Silicon Graphics Inc., a computer manufacturer here.
It calls for spending $17 billion over four years and includes money to transform a Commerce Department agency to serve as a civilian focal point for incubating advanced technologies. The money for the programs was part of the President's economic plan announced last week
"To keep the United States on the cutting edge," Mr. Clinton said, "my job as President is to adjust America so we can win in the 21st century."
The appearance here, in the area south of San Francisco that is home to many of the nation's high-tech companies, was part of the President's campaign to promote his economic plan.
 
Talk of 'Industrial Policy'
 While the Administration did not explicitly call its program an "industrial policy" in which the Government would encourage certain industries over others, several high-tech industry executives were quick to greet it as an important sea change in policy.
"Fundamentally it's the beginning of an industrial policy," said Kirk Raab, chief executive of Genentech, a biotechnology company based in South San Francisco. "And I think we need an industrial policy in the U.S., as long as its perspective is one of cooperation between business and Government and not dominated by the Government."
The plan, which is closely modeled after the goals sketched by the President in a document developed with executives of Silicon Valley companies during the election campaign, proposes initiatives on many fronts. Among them are these:
*Expanding the role of the National Institute of Standards and Technology in the Commerce Department to promote joint ventures between business and government.
*Financing research leading to a national high-speed computer network, called an information superhighway.
*Developing a partnership between the Government and the auto industry to develop an "environmentally clean" car.
*Increasing partnerships between private industry and the national laboratories.
*Expanding the national network of manufacturing extension centers to help small and medium-sized businesses gain access to technology.
 
Reversing the Bush Course
 In calling for closer cooperation between business and the Government, the Clinton Administration initiative is a significant break with the policies of the Bush Administration, which gave modest high-technology grants and supported the Pentagon-led semiconductor industry consortium, called Sematech, but refused to endorse policies that would in effect pick industrial "winners and losers."
Critics of the Clinton plan said today that Government stimulus for new technologies was never an effective way to develop competitive businesses.
"The Government is going into the venture-capital business," said Allan Meltzer, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a policy research center in Washington. "Is the Government going to do better than the private sector? I doubt it."
The Clinton program would encourage private-sector investment and technological innovation by making permanent a tax credit for the research and development spending of companies, by reducing capital gains taxes for small businesses and by changing antitrust laws to permit joint production ventures.
Making the tax credit permanent would cost the Treasury an estimated $6.4 billion over four years. In addition, the plan calls for spending $598 million on high technology this year and restoring $207 million of cuts in the budget of the National Science Foundation. It would also increase spending for the national laboratories by $47 million this year and $146 million in the next four years to focus on civilian instead of military projects.
The Clinton initiative also calls for a four-year, $272 million increase in money for the Environmental Protection Agency for private-industry development of environmental technology.
The initiative would also sharply increase financing of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, spending $1.3 billion over four years to turn the Commerce Department unit into a civilian technology agency for financing industry-led research and development.
The plan stresses building the national high-speed computer network to link businesses, schools and governments, a project Vice President Gore has long championed. He has said its construction will lead to a blossoming of new businesses and economic productivity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SGI (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (69%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RESEARCH; AUTOMOBILES; AIR POLLUTION ; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SMALL BUSINESS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SCIENCE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (64%); JOINT VENTURES (62%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MARKOFF, JOHN ; GIBBONS, JACK (DR) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



671 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Congress Is Pressed to Join in Belt-Tightening

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22

 BODY:
If members of Congress could finish all their business in one day, shut down their offices, dismiss their staffs and resign without pensions, they could save the nation's taxpayers $2 billion a year -- about the cost of one B-2 bomber.
That may be small change, but Congress is coming under increasing constituent pressure to cut down on mail privileges, leather furniture, office expenses for retired Speakers and other pork from the Capitol Hill budget. 
 Voters are telling their representatives that they cannot accept the tax increases proposed by President Clinton unless they also see cuts in Federal spending. The lingering images of lawmakers' abusing checking accounts and riding in chauffeur-driven cars have made Congressional financing a magnet for voters' outrage with Government.
 
Total of 35,000 Staff Members
 But a few powerful committee chairmen are resisting cutting back, and Republicans are skeptical that their Democratic counterparts are serious. Still, many lawmakers say the President's talk of shared sacrifice and White House staff cuts make at least modest cutbacks in the legislative branch inevitable this year and sharper cuts probable in the next few years.
Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington and Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, announced last week that they wanted to eliminate 1,400 jobs, or 4 percent, from the 35,000-member Congressional staff by 1995 and cut total administrative costs 14 percent by 1997.
Noting a direct political connection between the cuts and their hopes to pass Mr. Clinton's legislative program, Mr. Foley and Mr. Mitchell released a statement saying, "We believe that this shared effort is necessary as we move forward with our agenda of economic growth, job creation, deficit reduction and health-care reform."
Mr. Clinton returned the favor by complimenting the lawmakers' cost-cutting effort in his speech to Congress on Wednesday night, praising it as "a very clear signal to the American people." His comments cemented the notion that even symbolic changes in the way Congress does business were necessary to restore public confidence in Washington.
Republicans characterized the Democrat lawmakers' announcement as a publicity stunt to reinforce Mr. Clinton's effort to sell his economic program, noting that the leadership had not consulted Republicans before making its announcement.
 
Action on Committees
 But on Thursday, the Senate Rules Committee voted to cut $4.7 million for 19 committees in 1993. And the full Senate appears to be moving to dissolve its Select Committees on Aging and Indian Affairs, trimming an additional $1.2 million in annual spending and 58 staff members, although lobbying groups representing Indians and the elderly are resisting.
Also on the cutting block are four House committees dealing with aging, children, narcotics and hunger. They will almost surely expire next month, for annual savings of $3.6 million.
"For the Democrats to even suggest that they are willing to consider a reduction is a good sign," said Representative C. W. Bill Young of Florida, the ranking Republican on the House Subcommittee on Legislative Appropriations. "With the focus that the President and the focus that Ross Perot are putting on the issue, I think the people will be looking for a lot more than 4 percent."
Although the issue of Congress's spending on itself is more political than economic, lawmakers say cuts in committees and their staffs could make the legislative branch more efficient. They complain that they spend so much time sitting on multiple committees that sometimes have overlapping jurisdictions that they cannot focus on all the issues they would like to.
 
Hearings on Cutbacks
 The Senate Appropriations subcommittee responsible for legislative spending will begin hearings on Tuesday seeking cuts in the Congressional staff, the Library of Congress, the General Accounting Office and the Capitol Architect's Office.
Senator David L. Boren, the Oklahoma Democrat who is co-chairman of a joint Senate-House committee preparing plans to reorganize the Congress, said he would like to reduce the number of committees and subcommittees to 50, from 299, and thereby reduce the staff to 7,000 people, from 12,000, by the year 2000.
But Mr. Boren conceded that his efforts ran against the grain of many powerful lawmakers.
Among the most powerful resisters appears to be Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the Appropriations Committee. After the Rules Committee called for a 6.3 percent cut in financing for committees, Mr. Byrd came back asking for a 12 percent increase for his own panel. Seven other committees, including Finance and Intelligence, also asked for more money, but Senator Wendell H. Ford, the Kentucky Democrat who heads the Rules Committee, persuaded his committee to overrule the other chairmen and approve across-the-board cuts.
The House budget mushroomed, to $700 million, from $520 million, from 1990 to 1992, while costs in the Senate rose more gradually. And the scandals over the House bank, restaurant and post office last year sharpened public outrage over perks and pork.
Congress responded by cutting down sharply on mail privileges and others and raising prices at the House restaurant and fees at the House gymnasium, among other things.
"The cuts sell back home," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, noting that his haircuts at the House barber shop now cost $12 instead of the $7 last year.
Many Congressional critics view the problem of legislative spending as an abuse of power. The average House member spent more taxpayer money on free mailings last year than the average challenger did on his entire Congressional campaign, said David Keating, executive vice president of the National Taxpayers Union.
"There's plenty of room for cutting," Mr. Keating said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) ; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) ; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES ; PUBLIC OPINION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FRINGE BENEFITS; CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); AGING (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



672 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TO FIGHT FOREIGN SUBSIDIES

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash., Feb. 22

 BODY:
President Clinton today told an audience of aeronautics workers, many of them threatened with the loss of their jobs, that their livelihoods were imperiled because of unfair foreign competition, and that the Federal Government would help them.
At other stops on his road trip to promote his economic plan, Mr. Clinton has appealed for support for the tax increases that are its major feature. But this time the message was one of reassurance. 
 Mr. Clinton spoke at the Boeing factory here in this city north of Seattle just days after company managers announced that they would lay off 28,000 workers in the next 18 months. The President said that employees were not to blame for their plight and that unfair foreign competition had undercut their industry.
 
European Subsidies Attacked
 The President was especially critical of European subsidies for Airbus, the multibillion-dollar project that has left Boeing and McDonnell Douglas scrambling to compete.
"It is indeed ironic," he said, "that the United States, which for so long has led the world in the production of airplanes and in the development of sophisticated, consumer-oriented services through commercial carriers, has had three years in which more money has been lost than was made in the previous history of the airline history. And I can tell you from my study, very little of that is your fault."
Mr. Clinton and his aides made it clear that the Administration did not intend to fight subsidies with subsidies, but would seek to limit Europe's contribution to Airbus, the American aircraft industry's major competitor. The President said he had instructed the United States Trade Representative, Mickey Kantor, to begin monitoring international agreements, made last year, that would limit subsidies to Airbus.
"We need a commitment not to shield ourselves from competition but to reward ourselves when we really compete and win," Mr. Clinton told 3,000 Boeing employees who gathered to hear him speak in a cavernous hangar here.
"Countries which do that win," Mr. Clinton said. "Those which don't are punished. And we can no longer afford to wait for 10 years, while someone does something to us that we do not respond to."
Boeing announced that 28,000 of its 141,500 workers nationwide would be laid off because of declining commercial airplane sales. About 15,000 of those lost jobs are to be in Washington State. The first round of notices to employees went out here on Friday.
 
Changing the Rules
 "I think you and I know deep in our hearts that most of these layoffs -- maybe not all, because the airline industry itself has problems which are bleeding back onto you the commercial carriers -- but a lot of these layoffs would not have been announced had it not been for the $26 billion that the United States sat by and let Europe plow into Airbus over the last several years," he told the Boeing employees. "So we're going to try to change the rules of the game."
Mr. Clinton, who met privately with executives of the commercial airlines and their manufacturers after his speech here, said he supported the establishment of commission that would examine the standing of the airline industry and would ask such a group to make suggestions to revive the industry within 90 days after it is created by Congress.
Other than that, Mr. Clinton's plans for reviving the industry and providing jobs for those who will be laid off appear to rely entirely on his ability to use the economic plan he has proposed to revive the economy as a whole.
"If we do a good job, we'll be able to find more business and bring some of them back to work," he said after the meeting.
By casting responsibility for the industry's problems on the Europeans instead of on problems the Government could remedy by offering tax breaks or subsidies to the industry, Mr. Clinton portrayed himself as a champion of the middle-class employees who will lose their jobs here.
"Other nations follow targeted strategies and partnerships to pierce markets which you had dominated under a free market system but with which you could not compete," he said.
Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said the economic plan to be presented to Congress next week would help growing companies like Silicon Graphics as well as large ones like Boeing. She said the plan would include worker retraining and other investments to make the economy more competitive.
Approval for the way Mr. Clinton is handling his job as President has risen since he delivered his economic address last Wednesday, according to a CBS News Poll taken over the weekend. Sixty-four percent of Americans now say they approve of the way Mr. Clinton is doing his job. That was up from 53 percent who said the same thing 10 days earlier. Mr. Clinton's job approval rating is now roughly what George Bush's was at a similar point in his Presidency.
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted with 923 adults who were first interviewed for a poll conducted Feb. 9 to Feb. 11. The most frequently cited reasons for those who changed their views from disapproval of Mr. Clinton in the first poll to approval in the second were Mr. Clinton's speech and his economic plan in general.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Silicon Graphics in Mountain View, Calif., Tom Davis, back to camera, a company co-founder, demonstrated a product to President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. As Mr. Davis said, "Sometimes you look at your screen and you realize things aren't just right," an image of former President George Bush and former Vice President Dan Quayle appeared. He then pressed a button and the images changed into those of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore. Edward McCracken, left, the company's president, enjoyed the moment. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Spectators at a Boeing aircraft plant in Everett, Wash., cheering Air Force One as President Clinton arrived to discuss his economic package. (Associated Press) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FEDERAL AID (US); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR LAYOFFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (74%); TOM DAVIS (61%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



673 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: Nation of Orphans: A special report;
Uganda, Scarred by AIDS, Turns to Its Youth

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LUTENGO, Uganda

 BODY:
Before Julius Keeya Kintu's father died of AIDS five years ago, he taught his son how to grow coffee, squash and cassava, whose root is Uganda's staple food. Together they patched up the family's brick-and-thatch hut.
Then, a few months ago, Julius's mother, sick with AIDS and unable to care for herself, left her children and traveled to her mother's home to die. 
 Now 13, Julius has become the head of the family, the oldest boy of the seven children left to survive on their own on the two hilly acres that yield their scant livelihood.
"My father taught me how to plant and my mother, she taught me discipline," said Julius, a thin wiry boy, his voice low and serious. "When I am older I want to be a doctor. I see so many people who are sick and they die before they even get to the hospital."
A decade after AIDS was first diagnosed in Uganda, the number of orphans surviving and schooling themselves is becoming an accepted part of society. The Government AIDS Commission estimates that AIDS-related deaths have left between 1.5 million and 2 million children without fathers; most have also lost their mothers.
The Kintu family is one of more than a hundred in this district led by children 14 or younger. A 1991 census of the Rakai and Masaka districts showed that one child in four was an orphan.
The Government has resisted setting up orphanages, saying it they are economically and socially impractical. In a poor country where more than 85 percent of the residents farm, the aim is to keep orphans on their land -- their only insurance for the future -- where their communities look after them.
Orphans are but one of the many changes in the social fabric and traditions of this East African nation, one of the hardest hit by AIDS, as it struggles to cope -- medically, emotionally, socially and politically -- with an epidemic that continues to outrace prevention.
 
A 9% Infection Rate
 In Africa, as in much of the world, statistics on AIDS sometimes lack credibility, in large part because of inadequate reporting. Only 30 percent of Ugandans are in regular contact with health-care professionals.
Using 1988 projections, the Government estimates that 9 percent of Uganda's 16.7 million people carry the virus. (The infection rate in the United States is estimated by the World Health Organization and others at four-tenths of 1 percent.)
In December the Ugandan AIDS Control Program estimated about 38,500 cases of the disease, up 17,000 from the year before. But Godwill Asiimwe-Okiror, an epidemiologist for the program, said the number might be closer to 380,000.
There are no figures available for the number of deaths.
 
First, Admit the Problem
 Although its plague may be less vast than the epidemics in other countries in Africa, Uganda has become the bellwether in acknowledging its problems and trying to deal with them: over the past two years, the causes and treatment of AIDS have been demystified and awareness of the epidemic has become widespread.
"Now in Uganda virtually everyone knows they have been exposed," explained Norine Kaleeba, the founder and director of The AIDS Support Organization, which advocates the rights of people with AIDS throughout Africa. "It is self-awareness that has caused this. The question is, Have I caught it or not? It is not the blood-test results that are important; it is what you do. We all hope we can cope.
"Watching someone die of AIDS it is actually like watching a video of yourself. You wonder how long it will be before it is you, yourself."
 
Uganda Has Changed
 The epidemic has changed aspects of Uganda's social life. Kampala's brothels have closed down, and truck-stop hotels on the main highways that a few years ago were teeming with prostitutes are now hurting for business. "Positive Living" and "Love Carefully" are seen on T-shirts, walls and newspapers, and the mottoes are preached from universities to thatch huts, from President Yoweri K. Museveni to farmers.
There are political repercussions, as well. The military, the backbone of the ruling party, has been hard hit; although there are no reliable statistics because testing has been limited, epidemiologists estimate that at least 40 percent and possibly 80 percent of soldiers are infected with H.I.V. Now, as civil wars fade and more than 40 percent of the 90,000 man in uniform are being sent home, researchers worry that the infection rate will rise.
 
The Dead
A National Need For Spiritual Solace
 But in this intensely spiritual country, where two decades of civil war killed more than half a million people, the calamity of AIDS is often greeted with gentleness. There is very little guilt or blame over AIDS. The focus is very much on survival.
"I have never seen anyone fight death," said Sister Ursula Sharpe, director of the outpatient AIDS unit at Kitovu Hospital in Masaka, which serves more than 1,800 patients a week. "The spirit world here is very close. When you live in the middle of it, somehow you cope."
AIDS deaths touch every Ugandan family, mostly the young adults and breadwinners or very young children, and relief workers say fear and emotional exhaustion are overwhelming.
 
Some Witchcraft, No AZT
 The average life span after one is infected with H.I.V. is five years. Hospitals are overcrowded and there is a large market in herbal medicines and in some cases witchcraft to treat the disease. Drugs like AZT are not available; infected Ugandans have access only to antibiotics, aspirin and cortisone cream for skin rashes.
Newspapers carry pages of death announcements, most for young people and military and Government officials. Last spring 22 of 2,000 students at Makerere University in Kampala graduated posthumously.
In the villages and towns, every plot of red earth and banana palms has burial mounds. Communities are flooded by the sheer number of deaths. Funerals, once several-day affairs in which whole villages took part, now take only several hours. The year traditionally allowed for a widow to mourn has been shortened to less than 24 hours, after which it is considered bad luck to grieve.
 
The Data
Who Are Sick, Who Tends Them
 By the mid-1990's, the great majority of new AIDS cases in the world will occur in sub-Saharan Africa, where an estimated 20 million Africans will become infected, according to a State Department report in 1992. The epidemic is expected to substantially weaken the political elites and damage the economies of the hardest hit countries -- Uganda, Rwanda, Malawi, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe -- all of which have H.I.V. infection rates that exceed 5 percent of their populations.
The 9 percent infection rate in Uganda varies by age and sex, and between urban and rural settings.
In Kampala one in every four adults carries the virus; in Masaka district the infection rate is about 35 percent. But in Choteru, a traders' town near the Tanzanian border where AIDS in Uganda was first diagnosed a decade ago, 60 percent of women between 19 and 24 are believed to be infected. As AIDS awareness has spread, Choteru has become almost a ghost town where truckers do not even stop.
 
High Rate Among Women
 In 1990 about $150 million was spent on AIDS prevention in Africa, nearly all from foreign donors. But because the effort is so recent, it will have only a marginal effect on the spread of H.I.V., the human immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS.
In this polygamous and promiscuous society, young women are the most vulnerable and their infection rate is six times higher than that of young men, according to the Agency for International Development. In prenatal clinics, 30 percent of the women tested last year were infected with H.I.V., an increase of six percentage points from 1990.
Dr. Asiimwe-Okiror, of the Ugandan AIDS Control Program, said surveys in particularly hard hit regions in southern Uganda showed that about 1 percent of the population was becoming infected with H.I.V. each year.
"That's astronomical," he said, "and it might even be more than that."
 
The Struggle
 Using Condoms Is Just a Start
 The effectiveness of the fight against AIDS is difficult to assess. Ultimately, Ugandan officials and doctors agree, the real impact must come from education and a concerted change in social behavior.
There is a highly conservative approach at the upper levels of leadership. Ugandan AIDS organizations stress monogamy and a subtle approach to condoms. (There are no condom advertisements in Government-owned media.) Foreign groups, including the Agency for International Development, promote and distribute condoms and encourage blood tests.
In recent years, prevention and treatment programs have been underwritten in large part by the United States, which spent about $22.5 million from 1988 to 1992 and has budgeted $4 million this year. The World Health Organization provided $3 million in 1991 and the United Nations Development Program is planning to spend $15 million in 1991-96.
 
Calculating Results
 But the effectiveness of the extensive programs -- from condoms to blood tests to family planning -- is only now being gauged.
The marketing of condoms has had mixed results. For the rural population, condoms are either too difficult to find or too expensive, and many Ugandans do not understand the necessity of using them all the time.
The Agency for International Development plans to distribute five million condoms in 1993, but the number is deceptive. In the military, for example, 360,000 condoms were distributed between 1988 and 1991, about one per year for each of the 90,000 men in the army.
 
The Religious Hurdle
 Uganda is about 45 percent Roman Catholic, and there has been deep-seated opposition to the use of condoms from the bishops in Uganda and, most recently, from Pope John Paul II. In a recent visit he preached chastity as the only way to fight AIDS.
But President Museveni, who once openly opposed condoms, is now advocating a "quiet approach" to distribution. Catholic missionaries running AIDS clinics not only tell their patients about condoms but also supply them if asked.
As for blood tests, many Ugandans are still afraid to be tested, even community workers in constant contact with the suffering.
Rabina Ssentongo, of Kitovu's Mobile Care Unit, visits thousands of patients every week. At 31, she has also lost three brothers to AIDS.
But she says she is still too scared to be tested for H.I.V.
 
A Final Caress
 From Consolation To Inspiration
 Miss Ssentongo has watched the sickness of parents drive children to suicide, and teen-agers numbly cleaning adults who can no longer control their bodies. Her conversations are mostly about AIDS and sexual behavior. Depression shadows her work.
"I feel very sad when I work with the dying," she said. She gives everyone who stops her on her rounds a few minutes, a smile, a caress, a soothing word. "It is very special for me to work with the orphans because I know that with them they will be alive in the future."
Miss Ssentongo's four-wheel-drive vehicle jolts over the rutted red-dirt roads as she visits huts buried in the green farms, bringing dignity to death and an upbeat tone to survival.
In a square brick house, on a thin reed mattress, a 30-year-old woman lies emaciated, her body racked by a cough, her mother gently holding her hand. Miss Ssentongo eases her burly frame into a squat next to the woman, feels her chest, caresses her head, gently whispers to her, leaning forward to grasp the answers.
"I call this the speech of life," Miss Ssentongo said. "She wants an imam to come pray for her. I make sure she has made a will and that if she has children, she has left them her land. The woman has been sick for only seven months but she will probably die today. This is the situation I hate, when the body has wasted away so much."
There is only time for a few words of courage for the mother, then Miss Ssentongo must leave to visit the hundreds of orphans she looks after.
 
The Next Generation
7 Kintu Orphans Grow Up Fast
 The orphans underscore the uncertainty of Uganda's next generation. The children are expected to remain on their land, checked by community groups that monitor their crops.
But they also remain extremely vulnerable. Schooling is expensive. Many children need psychological counseling. The teen-age girls alone at home are targets for men.
"We would like them to maintain their basic rural life," said Manuel Pinto, the director of the Ugandan Aids Commission. "If you take them abruptly away and provide them Western-style home care, you will alienate them from their lineage and culture."
 
Counsel for the Orphans
 Miss Ssentongo, the health worker, checks each week on Julius Kintu and his six brothers and sisters, and on 5,000 other orphans in the district. She makes sure they have food, and focuses particularly on counseling girls reaching puberty. They chat about the future and what they want to do.
The Kintus are among the luckiest. Living in two dirt rooms under a corrugated-tin roof, barefoot and dressed in tattered school uniforms, they divide the work and rely on the know-how of Julius and his older sisters. Every day they walk two hours to school, then return to work their land.
"To be on your own without any loving people around, that is terrible," Miss Ssentongo said. "There is no one to explain to them how to grow up and when they do grow up, will they be fed up of being responsible? But now they know their problems and they cope. They'll ask for salt but never for sugar. They want to survive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children gathered at a school in Bukulula, Uganda, composed of children orphaned by the AIDS epidemic. (pg. A1); Nusula Nanyonga, a 30-year-old woman who is dying of AIDS in Kisiwuulu, Uganda, being tended by her mother and a community worker. (Alexandra Avakian for The New York Times) (pg. A10)
 
Maps show location of Lutengo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UGANDA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UGANDA UGANDA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FOREIGN AID; CONDOMS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES AIDS & HIV (95%); ORPHANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COFFEE FARMING (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); CENSUS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



674 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Sharply to Record Low vs. Yen

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Feb. 23

 BODY:
The dollar continued its fall to record lows against the Japanese yen today as traders anticipated that the leading industrial nations would push for a stronger yen to help reduce Japan's soaring trade surplus with the United States and Europe.
But Japanese authorities, while not totally against a stronger yen, said the recent rise of the yen and fall of the dollar were too swift, and hinted they might intervene in the currency markets to stabilize wild fluctuations. 
 The dollar closed today at yet another new low in Japanese trading, ending at 116.78 yen. It was the third consecutive day the dollar had fallen to a new low.
On Monday, the dollar closed at 116.85 yen in Tokyo, plunging 2.38 yen from its Friday close and reaching its lowest level since World War II. Later in New York, the dollar went even lower, closing Monday at 116.36 yen.
In today's trading, the dollar opened at 116.40 yen and fell as low as 116.30 before regaining some ground, apparently in reaction to the comments of high Japanese officials that the yen's rise had come too fast and that finance officials of the Group of Seven industrial nations had not agreed to lift the Japanese currency.
 
Foreigners Pay More
 As recently as two weeks ago, the dollar was worth 124 yen. For an American visiting Japan, a Tokyo hotel room that cost $160 on Feb. 8 costs $170 now, and an order of fast-food fried chicken that was $5.40 now costs more than $5.70.
The prices of Japanese goods sold in the United States, however, are not likely to be affected so immediately. In the case of cars, for example, Japanese companies may decide to raise prices by about the 5 percent that the yen has appreciated. But given the competition from domestic auto makers and the weakness of the American economic recovery, the Japanese auto industry may be forced to simply absorb the currency loss, which would cut more deeply into their already narrowing profits. In any case, price adjustments for currency fluctuations take several months to reach consumers.
Until its drop in the last three trading days, the lowest level for the dollar had been 118.60 yen, reached during Tokyo trading last Sept. 30, although the dollar rebounded and was higher at the close of that session.
Currency traders here have been knocking the dollar down in reaction to comments on Friday by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen in Washington. In response to a question at the National Press Club, Mr. Bentsen said he would like to see a stronger yen to help the United States reduce its trade deficit with Japan.
Similar comments favoring a stronger yen were made earlier this month by European officials. A stronger yen would make Japanese goods more expensive abroad while goods from other countries would be cheaper here, possibly narrowing Japan's trade surplus.
The calls for a stronger yen led to the belief among traders here that the finance ministers of the Group of Seven would agree to move toward a stronger yen at a meeting on Saturday in London. But Japanese officials cautioned today that no agreement had been reached by the ministers.
 
'A Pretty Free Rein'
 "With Bentsen having made his statement, the market feels it has a pretty free rein to take it to 115 to 114," said Kenneth S. Courtis, a strategist for Deutsche Bank in Asia.
Yoshiro Hayashi, Japan's Finance Minister, called the Monday trading "quite speculative" and said the Government would watch the market closely. A Bank of Japan official said the market was moving too fast. But other than such verbal hints, which can by themselves have a steadying effect, there did not yet appear to be direct intervention by the Government to support the dollar, analysts said.
Japanese officials have mixed feelings about the rising yen, although in general they have tolerated a gradual strengthening.
On the positive side, a strong yen would over the long term help reduce Japan's politically bothersome trade surplus. In the short term, a stronger yen will help Japan's banks, which are troubled by large numbers of bad loans, achieve necessary capital levels for the fiscal year that ends March 31. Assets held by banks overseas, when measured in stronger yen, become worth less, meaning less capital is needed to support assets.
 
Some Drawbacks for Japan
 But a stronger yen hurts Japan's blue-chip electronics and automobile companies, which are heavily dependent on exports. Since exports have been one factor keeping the struggling Japanese economy afloat, a blow to exports could prolong Japan's steep economic slump. It could also hurt the stock market. And keeping stocks from dropping is also important to keeping banks healthy.
Mineko Sasaki-Smith, chief economist at Credit Suisse Japan, said Monday that Japanese companies and the Government might have been most comfortable with 120 yen to the dollar. "Quite a few exporters consider 120 to 125 manageable," she said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Broad Loss for Dollar
 By The Associated Press
The dollar declined broadly in Europe and New York yesterday, falling to its lowest against the Japanese yen since World War II. In London, the dollar was quoted at 116.40 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 116.36 yen, down from 118.23 yen Friday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.4540, from $1.4528 late Friday. In New York, 1 sold for $1.4580, up from $1.4535 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Dollar's 7-Year Slide" tracks number of Japanese yen a dollar could buy since 1986; end-of-week quoted from Bankers Trust, except as shown. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; EUROPE JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



675 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The Clinton Administration announced a broad new technology initiative that embraces Government and industry cooperation to create new technologies and nurture innovative small companies. The program could lead to a significant change in the balance between civilian and military research and development, and generate new Government-industry consortiums. [Page A1.]
President Clinton told Boeing employees that they were not to blame for the company's loss of business and that unfair foreign competition had undercut their industry. He criticized government subsidies for Airbus, the European aircraft consortium. [A1.] 
 The computer industry is in danger of losing out in the emerging business of providing computer services to American homes and offices unless it becomes involved in Federal standard-setting that will occur this year, a key lawmaker warned. [D2.]
 
International
The dollar fell to a new low against the Japanese yen as traders anticipated that the leading industrial nations would push for a stronger yen to help reduce Japan's soaring trade surplus. [D1.]
Two high-ranking Fiat executives were arrested in a growing scandal involving political bribes. The arrests buffeted Fiat shares and rippled through the Milan stock exchange. [D1.]
Poland is struggling to change its banking system from one that played little economic role under Communism to one that can help finance the transformation to a market economy. [D1.]
European governments are divided on President Clinton's economic plan, gratified by his attempt to reduce the deficit but increasingly irked by his tough approach to trade issues. [D2.]
 
Companies
Synergen's stock plunged 68 percent after the company announced disappointing test results for Antril, a new biotechnology drug for treating sepsis, a deadly bacterial infection. [D1.]
In an unusual marriage of convenience and commerce, Random House and Simon & Schuster will jointly publish the campaign memoirs of James Carville, President Clinton's chief strategist, and Mary Matalin, a top aide to President George Bush. [D1.]
Ameritech proposed to end its local telephone monopoly in return for freedom to offer more lucrative long-distance and cable-television services. [D5.]
Sears sold 29.5 million shares of its Dean Witter brokerage firm at $27 a share, or $796.5 million. Demand for the shares was so strong that the offering price was raised. [D5.]
Enron hired former Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and former Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher to help develop overseas natural gas projects. [D5.]
Trump Plaza Funding filed to sell as much as $325 million in mortgage notes, which could help Donald Trump shed some personal debt and end bank supervision of his businesses. [D5.]
 
Mrkets
Investors fled the Nasdaq market and piled into the Dow industrials and utilities. The Nasdaq composite fell 1.7 percent and the Dow industrial average rose 20.81 points. [D1.]
Long-term interest rates continued to fall. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped below 7 percent for the first time since the bond was first issued regularly in 1977. [D18.]
Platinum futures skidded to their lowest point in a year amid economic anxiety in Japan, the largest platinum user. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors are taking a look at Read-Rite, which makes advanced heads that read data from high-performance hard computer disk drives. Market Place. [D10.]
Another award is being developed for creativity in advertising. But global competition is being organized by some experienced hands. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); T (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (57%); BOEING CO (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); AT&T INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); ARRESTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); SCANDALS (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DONALD TRUMP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



676 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

WOMAN NOMINATED FOR TOP JUDICIAL POST
Governor Cuomo has nominated Judge Judith S. Kaye, a judicial centrist on the New York State Court of Appeals who has worked to expand individual rights under the State Constitution, to become the first female chief judge of New York's highest court. A1. 
WATCHING THE HOSPITAL TIME CLOCK
Four years and nearly $1 billion after New York State adopted the nation's strictest limits on the hours worked by medical residents, it is unclear whether the changes have helped or hurt patient care, doctors and administrators say. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
VIOLENCE AMONG STUDENTS
In three incidents of violence in and around city schools, a 15-year-old student was shot in the arm in the Bronx; a 16-year-old student was arrested after opening fire with a gun on a Brooklyn street, slightly injuring a bystander in a wheelchair; and two boys, ages 12 and 15, received superficial knife wounds in Brooklyn, the police said. B6.
HEARING ON ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARADE
The group that holds the permit for the St. Patrick's Day parade has accused the city of holding the march hostage to beliefs that are contrary to Roman Catholic Church teachings. B3.
POLICE OFFICER IS SHOT
A police officer was shot in the ankle in a barrage of gunfire from a car that he and his partner had stopped. The incident evolved from a dispute in Washington Heights. B3.
NEW NAME FOR CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT
The City Council has voted to change the title, City Council President, to a new name, Public Advocate. B3.
FIGHTING CRIME, SAVING MONEY
To encourage tenants to become more involved in reducing crime in their buildings, the Housing Authority plans to let residents use the money saved by safety improvements. B3.
State urged to revamp day-care inspections. B3
 
REGION
 
TRACKING SNOWFALLS
Many weather watchers suspect that Sunday's storm was further proof that there has been more winter this winter than usual. But the National Weather Service says snowfall is running well below normal this winter. B4.
BUDGET DEFICIT FOR NASSAU COUNTY
The Nassau County Comptroller's office has closed the books on the 1992 budget, revealing what everyone had expected: a $119.9 million deficit in the county's general fund. B5.
GREATER SCRUTINY FOR SENATE MAILINGS
A New York State Supreme Court justice has ordered the State Senate to release detailed information about the taxpayer-financed literature it produced and mailed for one of its members. B5.
UNIVERSITY ACCREDITATION FIGHT
Two Russians held a news conference to say that they had been promised scholarships at the University of Bridgeport in exchange for taking Unification Church training. A Bridgeport-based group called the Coalition of Concerned Citizens, which opposed the university's takeover by a church affiliate, organized the news conference in an effort to block the school's re-accreditation. B5.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Hospital Debt" shows annual interest paid by private, nonprofit hospitals in New York City on long-term debts from 1987 to 1992. (Source: United Hospital Fund)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); ACCREDITATION (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); ARRESTS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); RELIGION (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



677 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Index Up Again

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: NEWTON, Mass., Feb. 22

 BODY:
Business confidence in the economy rose for the fourth consecutive month in February, the Cahners Business Confidence Index said today.
The index, which tracks companies' spending, production and hiring plans, increased to 68.9 in February, from 68.6 in January. It was the highest reading since the index was started by Cahners Economics in 1991, and 3.8 points ahead of the index reading for February 1992. 
 "The modest 0.3-point increase followed the substantial 3.3-point surge of January, providing further evidence that this higher level of business optimism is sustainable in the long term," the report said.
"Four of the seven index components registered gains in February, being led by a 2.6-point increase in business plans to step up spending on research and development," the report said. "However, following several months of sharp increases, the capital spending component fell back by 3.4 points."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAHNERS ECONOMICS

ORGANIZATION: CAHNERS ECONOMICS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



678 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Price of Platinum Tumbles; Other Precious Metals Drop

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Platinum futures prices skidded to their lowest point in more than a year yesterday as economic anxiety rose in Japan, the world's largest consumer of the metal.
Prices of other precious metals also fell. On other commodity markets, oil futures rose; lumber continued to soar; livestock rose, and grains and soybeans ended mixed. 
 Platinum for April delivery plunged $19.20 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, to $338.20 an ounce, the lowest settlement for near-term deliveries since Jan. 15 of last year. Palladium sank $9, to $98.35 an ounce.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold fell $2.10, to $328.20 an ounce, and silver for March delivery dropped 3.9 cents, to $3.523 an ounce, a two-year low.
Platinum's plunge extended a steep drop posted last week on the belief that President Clinton's proposed tax increases would stifle economic recovery in the United States and reduce demand for industrial metals, particularly platinum, an important element in automobile pollution-control systems.
Also, the Japanese yen's rise to a record high against the American dollar prompted "massive liquidation" of platinum futures by Japanese investors on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist with Merrill Lynch Futures in New York.
Energy futures moved higher, with heating oil and gasoline prices rising sharply on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Crude oil for March delivery climbed 40 cents, to $20.02 a barrel; March heating oil jumped 1.17 cents, to 56.49 cents a gallon; March unleaded gasoline rose 0.97 cent, to 54.43 cents a gallon, and April natural gas leaped 9.7 cents, to $1.849 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Lumber for March delivery rose $15 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, to $440.70 for 1,000 board feet, the 20th straight record high.
Forecasts for another winter storm in the Plains states drove cattle futures higher on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Hog futures also rose.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, wheat for March delivery rose 2 1/4 cents, to $3.69 a bushel; March corn fell 1 cent, to $2.11 3/4 a bushel; March oats fell 2 1/4 cents, to $1.36 a bushel, and March soybeans dropped 2 1/2 cents, to $5.70 3/4 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PLATINUM; PRICES FUTURES (95%); PLATINUM MARKETS (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); TAX LAW (53%); JAPANESE YEN (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



679 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Report On Clinton Plan Labels It as Fair

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22

 BODY:
A Treasury Department document scheduled to be made public on Wednesday takes pains to assert that fairness was a major consideration behind many of President Clinton's proposed tax changes, including one to end deductions of country club dues as a business expense.
A draft of the document, which was provided by someone outside the Treasury Department, also shows that the Administration has put some intricate restrictions into its tax breaks for business, including the new credit on investment in equipment, to prevent corporations from exploiting them. 
 The report explaining the Administration's tax proposals said deducting country club dues was unfair because activities at such clubs involved "a significant element of personal pleasure, enjoyment and social benefit."
The department also picks up Mr. Clinton's language in explaining the decision to reduce the percentage of business meals and entertainment expenses that can be deducted to 50 percent from 80 percent. The department says this new limitation is desirable because there is a "portion of these expenditures that is inherently personal in nature."
 
Limit for Pay Deductions
 The document also stresses fairness as explaining why the Administration has proposed limiting to $1 million the deductions corporations can take for pay to an individual executive, unless the pay is linked to productivity. The department argues that it is wrong for the Government to provide companies with unlimited deductions for executive pay, especially when many companies are not doing well and the wages of many workers have not kept up with inflation.
Many people have complained about the tax proposals, including restaurant owners, corporations and highly paid executives. For example, restaurant owners worry that further restricting deductions for business meals could harm their lunch business. Companies assert that increases in their taxes will make them reluctant to invest. And the executives say the free market should determine compensation without intervention by the Government.
But the Treasury report took a different view of executive pay, saying, "This unlimited tax subsidy is particularly troubling in light of concerns that in some cases, the compensation paid to corporate executives has increased despite a decline in business performance." It said the current law did not provide sufficient incentive for corporations to link compensation to business performance and added that the new proposal aimed to create a strong incentive for companies to link compensation to productivity.
The document, known as a Blue Book, is scheduled to be made public on Wednesday and aims to help legislators, accountants and other tax experts understand the rationale and details of Mr. Clinton's tax proposals.
 
New Details on Tax Plans
 The report also explains the proposal to end most deductions for corporate lobbying expenses, saying they "inappropriately" subsidize "corporations and special interest groups for intervening in the legislative process."
The report includes new details of how many tax changes will work. For example, the documents show that the proposed new tax credit for business investment will not be available for buying used equipment.
In another surprise to many tax experts, the department proposes taking back in future years some investment tax credits if companies squeeze an inordinate amount of investment into 1993 and 1994, the two years for which the credit is available, then slash investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CORPORATIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TAX CREDITS; DUES ; WAGES AND SALARIES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; RESTAURANTS TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



680 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Christopher Visits Beirut to Affirm Support and Push Peace Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Secretary of State Warren Christopher flew by helicopter to Beirut today in a gesture intended to affirm the Clinton Administration's commitment to Lebanon's fragile sovereignty and to win support for a quick resumption of the Middle East peace talks.
Mr. Christopher, the first senior American official to visit Beirut since Secretary of State George P. Shultz in 1983, flew from Larnaca, Cyprus, wearing an orange life vest over his suit. His aircraft was accompanied by armed security guards in a convoy of three United States Army Blackhawk helicopters. Along the way, he passed over the rubble of buildings bombed during the 18 years of Lebanon's war-scarred history and over new construction sites. 
 Security was so tight that the Lebanese Government was formally told of the visit only after his plane had left Kuwait and linked up with the helicopters, which are used to ferry American officials, supplies and mail into Beirut. The helicopters came in fast and low -- hovering only 100 feet above the ground to avoid detection by potential saboteurs -- before landing in an open field within the Defense Ministry complex in East Beirut.
Five hundred extra Lebanese soldiers were assigned to secure the building, an American condition for the trip, although no sounds of gunfire were heard during the visit.
 
Symbol of U.S. Support
 Mr. Christopher told reporters in Beirut that the visit "symbolizes our commitment and support for the Lebanese Government, for its effort to achieve independence and territorial integrity, for the dissolution of the armed militias and for the withdrawal of all non-Lebanese forces."
By traveling to Beirut, Mr. Christopher intended to demonstrate that the Clinton Administration did not want to treat a city with a tarnished reputation as off-limits.
His visit also indicated that he has at least some confidence that the fledgling Government of its billionaire Prime Minister, Rafiq al-Hariri, may survive. The visit helps Mr. Hariri's standing both in his own country and as a figure in the peace negotiations by treating him as someone who deserves to be dealt with in his own capital.
Mr. Christopher was also sending a message to the Syrians that Washington is committed to their withdrawal from Beirut in accordance with the 1989 Taif peace agreement, which ended Lebanon's civil war.
 
Troop Withdrawal Date Missed
 That agreement called for Syria and Lebanon to arrange the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Beirut into the Bekaa region two years after the creation of a national unity Government in Lebanon. The move would have meant the first step toward the total removal of the 35,000 troops, which Syria deployed in Lebanon in 1976, the year after the civil war began.
Much to the chagrin of the United States, the Syrians, arguing that Lebanon had not instituted enough political reforms, did not withdraw their troops as scheduled last September.
"It was exhilarating, actually," Mr. Christopher said of his brief trip after returning to Larnaca and then continuing on to Jerusalem for two days of talks with Israeli leaders about the Middle East peace negotiations.
Earlier today, Mr. Christopher flew from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to Kuwait, where he met with the Emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah. In both capitals he issued strong statements against the Iraqi Government of President Saddam Hussein and sought to assure Kuwaiti and Saudi leaders that the Clinton Administration was not weakening in its resolve to carry out all the United Nations Security Council resolutions against Mr. Hussein.
Lebanon's leaders were eager for Mr. Christopher to make the trip, and Foreign Minister Faris Bouez told reporters that Lebanon is committed to resuming the peace talks as soon as possible. Like Egyptian, Jordanian and Syrian officials who have met with Mr. Christopher on his first foreign trip as Secretary of State, Mr. Bouez did not insist that the peace talks could begin again only after nearly 400 Palestinians deported by Israel to Lebanon last December were returned.
Mr. Hariri refused to accept the deportees when they were expelled from Israel, and they remain stranded in Lebanon between Israeli and Lebanese Army checkpoints.
Mr. Christopher also signaled that the United States would consider resuming aid to Lebanon and lifting largely symbolic sanctions.
In January 1987, as a protest against terrorism and the absence of any central control in Lebanon, the United States announced, among other steps, that American passports were no longer valid for travel to the country and closed its consular section in Lebanon.
Today, Mr. Christopher said he discussed with Lebanese leaders the possibility of extending economic aid, the training of Lebanese military officers in the United States, the purchase of excess American military equipment and the lifting of the sanctions.
But he added, "We want to be sure we don't aggravate the problem by releasing the travel restrictions at too early a date, and perhaps the fact that I've been able to come here tonight will be a favorable factor."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: LEBANON (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); CYPRUS (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (99%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; LEBANON; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SYRIA LEBANON (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); CYPRUS (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; LEBANON-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HELICOPTERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



681 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Dean Witter Stake Is Sold In Offering

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
In a widely anticipated public offering, Sears, Roebuck & Company sold 29.5 million shares of its Dean Witter brokerage firm subsidiary yesterday at $27 a share, or $796.5 million.
Demand for the shares was so strong that over the weekend underwriters increased the price range for the offering to between $25 and $27 a share, from an initial range of $23 to $25. 
 The shares, which include the Discover credit-card operation, were priced after the close of the New York Stock Exchange, where they will begin trading today. Morgan Stanley & Company, one of the lead managers on the deal, acted as independent pricing agent. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. acted as lead manager for the underwriting.
 
 
$910 Million in Potential Proceeds
 An additional 4.3 million shares of the stock could potentially be offered to the public if the stock performs well once it is freed up for trading, investment bankers said. If those shares are sold, it would raise the proceeds to more than $910 million, which would be used to capitalize the new company.
Yesterday's offering represents 20 percent of the company that will be known as Dean Witter, Discover & Company. Sears, which bought Dean Witter in 1981 for $661 million in cash and stock, will spin off the remaining 80 percent to Sears stockholders in the form of a dividend within the next three to four months. The spinoff is part of Sears's plan to shed financial operations to concentrate on its core retail operations.
Analysts said they were not surprised that demand for the new Dean Witter shares was so strong.
 
 
'Top-Notch' Retail Operation
 "The company has done well over the last four or five years," said Perrin H. Long, a securities industry analyst at the First of Michigan Corporation in Detroit. "Not only do they have a top-notch retail brokerage operation, but they also have the Discover card, which is the largest retail card in the business."
The new shares, based on anticipated Dean Witter earnings of between $2.50 and $2.65 a share this year, were priced at about 10 times earnings, Mr. Long estimated. That is comparable to the earnings multiple of the shares of Merrill Lynch & Company, he said.
"Brokers are doing well, interest rates are going down and at 10 times earnings, the Dean Witter stock looks like a reasonable buy," he said.
Wall Street executives said demand for the new Dean Witter shares was particularly strong among domestic institutions.
They said Philip J. Purcell, Dean Witter's chairman and chief executive, and other company executives were particularly effective in presenting their case to potential investors.
"This was one of the great road shows in recent history," one Wall Street executive said. "Purcell and his people did a spectacular job. Every major account in the United States took a very, very hard look at deal, and a vast majority came in for shares."
Yesterday's successful equity pricing should help the sale of $4 billion worth of new Dean Witter debt securities, which is tentatively scheduled for next month, the executive said.
"This has to be seen as a great positive to people throughout the financial community," the executive said. "As such, it has to be a positive for the initial debt offering and for subsequent ones as well."
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Sears shares closed yesterday at $53.875, up 37.5 cents a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC; SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); MORGAN STANLEY (93%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (71%); FIRST OF MICHIGAN CORP (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEAN WITTER FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC; SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



682 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long-Bond Yield Hits 6.93% Low

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
President Clinton's economic program may be running into some obstacles in Congress and in the corporate world. But it is having no problems in the bond market, where long-term interest rates continue to fall.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped below 7 percent yesterday for the first time since the Treasury began issuing 30-year bonds regularly in 1977, as traders and investors continued to see positives for long-term interest rates in the program the President proposed last week. The price of the bond jumped 28/32, to 10214/32, to yield 6.93 percent. 
 The 6.93 percent yield, down from 7 percent Friday, is also the lowest on any long term-term Treasury bond since the 6.80 percent yields on 20-year bonds in the spring of 1973. At the same time, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped to 6.09 percent, the lowest it has been since June 1972. Its price jumped 19/32.
The decline in long-term interest rates over the last week has been striking. Just a week ago, the yield on the 30-year bond was 7.12 percent and on the 10-year note 6.33 percent. And the drop is positive for the economy, which the President is hoping to get moving fast enough to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs soon.
 
Not 'Business as Usual'
 The break below 7 percent, said John Lipsky, the chief economist at Salomon Brothers, "certainly should suggest to businesses and consumers that there is something new here and that this is just not business as usual."
"This could increase confidence in the belief that we are back in the low interest rate and low inflation environment of the late 1960's," he said.
As for the pace of the recovery, Mr. Lipsky said, "lower long-term interest rates reduce the cost of capital for firms and encourage investment, which should increase growth and create jobs."
He added that Administration officials had made it clear that they were betting on lower long-term interest rates to be a major force behind the revival of the economy.
Lower long-term interest rates also mean lower mortgage costs for consumers, which can spur the housing industry, a critical part of any economic recovery. In addition, lower interest rates will reduce the debt burden that both corporations and consumers picked up in the 1980's. That debt burden is one reason why this economic recovery is sluggish compared with those of the past.
 
No Fluke, Traders Say
 The rally in the price of the 30-year bond and 10-year note was a slow but steady process yesterday that led traders to conclude that the surge was not a fluke.
But John Costas of the First Boston Corporation also said that the rally was helped by the fact that buying yesterday was much stronger than usual a Monday before the Treasury auction of two-year notes today and five-year notes tomorrow.
Mr. Lipsky argued that despite some revisions of opinions about the President's economic plan since it was announced, it still seems to present a program for long-term interest rates that is positive for traders and investors.
He said that it was now clear that the deficit reduction the President proposed was mostly achieved through tax increases and Government fees, some of which the Clinton Administration tried to count as spending reductions. For example, the tax increase on Social Security benefits was counted as a spending reduction.
Mr. Lipsky said that based on Salomon Brothers calculations, the plan would not produce any significant cut in overall Government spending until the fiscal year 1996.
But despite this, Mr. Lipsky argued that the plan could still produce significant deficit reduction, although mostly through new revenue. This deficit reduction, in turn, will act as a drag on economic growth by reducing consumer, business and government spending.
 
Good for Market
 This is positive for the bond market because slower growth means that there is less chance that inflation will begin rising again soon. And with continued low inflation, investors will begin to pay even more attention to what Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said recently in testimony to Congress: That given the levels of current inflation long-term interest rates should be about two percentage points lower than where they were then, which was around 7.20 percent. Such a belief makes long-term bonds with a 6.93 percent yield attractive buys.
In late trading yesterday in the pre-auction market, the yield on the two-year note to be auctioned today was 3.99 percent, down from 4.01 percent Friday. The yield on the five-year note to be auctioned tomorrow was 5.24 percent, down from 5.29 percent.
In the weekly Treasury auction the discount rate on three-month bills moved higher while the discount rate on six-month bills fell. The average discount rate on the three-month bill was 2.96 percent and on the six-month 3.06 percent. Following are the results of the auction.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.252	98.453	Discounted Rate	2.96%	3.06%	Coupon Yield	3.02%	3.15%	High Price	99.257	98.463	Discounted Rate	2.94%	3.04%	Coupon Yield	3.00%	3.13%	Low Price	99.252	98.453	Discounted Rate	2.96%	3.06%	coupon Yield	3.02%	3.15%	Accepted at low price	91%	71%	Total applied for	$41,845,840	$38,846,440	Accepted	$11,658,495	$11,627,350	N.Y. applied for	$38,624,870	$35,308,405	N.Y. accepted	$10,275,545	$10,414,210	Noncompetitive	$1,249,505	$879,765	

Both these issues are dated Feb. 25, 1993. The three-month bills mature May 27, 1993, and the six-month bills mature Aug. 26, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction since November 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



683 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Europe Is Divided on Clinton's Plans

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 22

 BODY:
European governments are divided in their response to President Clinton's economic plan, gratified by his attempt to reduce the American budget deficit, but increasingly irked by his tough approach to trade issues.
Before the Clinton Administration came to power last month, there was widespread optimism here for improved trans-Atlantic ties. European leaders felt that economic relations had reached a nadir under President George Bush's neglect of the dollar as it drifted downward and in the failure to reach a world trade accord. 
 But as finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations prepare to meet in London this week for the first time since Mr. Clinton took office, the European optimism is already mixed with uncertainty and irritation.
 
Warning on Protectionism
 "There are extremely worrying signs on the trade front," former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France said in an interview. "And the Clinton Administration must be told very clearly that protectionism will lead to disaster."
However, Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, who is an outside candidate to head the French Government after elections next month, added, "On the other hand, Mr. Clinton's attempt to reduce the U.S. deficit is courageous and can only be applauded."
European governments, joined by the Japanese, have long been calling for measures to cut the deficit in the United States. In essence, they have argued that the mounting deficit tended to undermine the United States economy and weaken the dollar, so hampering sustained worldwide economic growth and skewing world trade.
For example, buoyed by a weak dollar that made its exports relatively cheap, United States exports to the European Community surged from $60.6 billion in 1987 to $103.2 billion in 1991.
In the same period, European exports to the United States were virtually stagnant, inching up from $84.9 billion to $86.5 billion. Thus, from a deficit of $24.3 billion with Europe in 1987, Washington moved to a $16.7 billion surplus.
 
Pushing Dollar Up
 In general, economists believe the dollar -- currently trading at 1.63 marks -- now has room for an appreciation of about 10 percent against European currencies, and that President Clinton's measures to cut the deficit will ultimately reinforce this upward trend.
"The dollar has considerable upside, and is probably heading for an exchange rate of 1.80 marks," said Kim Schoenholtz, the chief European economist for Salomon Brothers in London.
J. Paul Horne, chief economist for Smith Barney in Paris, added: "The deficit has long been a fundamental negative for the dollar because it was seen as a structural flaw in the United States economy. That should begin to change now."
Because such a change is seen as ultimately beneficial to European economies, there has been virtual unanimity in applauding President Clinton's proposed measures to cut the deficit.
Henning Christophersen, the community's economics commissioner, summed up sentiment last week when he described the Clinton package as "encouraging and full of promise -- the most serious effort in years to tackle the Federal deficit."
 
Looking for Locomotive
 Europe is worried that United States growth this year will not be strong enough to act as a locomotive for European economies still in a slump.
While the United States economy is widely expected to grow at least 3 percent this year, the community's economy may grow 1 percent at best. Thus, there has been concern that President Clinton's proposed new personal and corporate taxes could hold back United States growth.
"The Europeans are desperate for a United States locomotive," Mr. Horne said. "So they are asking, how much is this taxation going to penalize growth?"
Despite the impression here that President Clinton had done a good job in balancing the tough fiscal measures needed to reduce the deficit with stimulative economic measures, there are lingering doubts on resolving pressing trade issues.
Already, the Clinton Administration has imposed stiff duties on steel imports. And the President has said that $26 billion of European subsidies toward building the Airbus aircraft industry had served to push American people out of work.
"We have the impression that the United States under Bill Clinton will be tough and difficult negotiators on trade," said Peter Guildford, the community's spokesman for international trade issues. "But up to now we see protectionism more in word than in deed, and we hope we can still reach a global trade agreement."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (51%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



684 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Backs Funds For Science Projects

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

 BODY:
DESPITE the Clinton Administration's hopes to achieve sharp reductions in Government spending, prospects appear to have brightened for Federal financing of some branches of scientific research and for construction of the world's largest particle accelerator, the Superconducting Supercollider.
The National Science Foundation, the Federal Government's major financing agency for small to medium-sized scientific research, would receive a special increase in its budget for the current year, which its officials say would permit real growth. Although the pace of construction of the supercollider would be throttled back, it would still receive ample financing to keep it alive. 
 As part of the Administration's supplemental financing request for the 1993 budget, the National Science Foundation would receive an extra $207 million, bringing its budget for this year to $2.94 billion, about 14 percent above its 1992 budget.
"This is great news for the National Science Foundation," its director, Dr. Walter Massey, said yesterday, adding that the money was vital to fully finance the foundation's program of applied science and technology.
 
Testimony Set for Today
 Dr. Massey is scheduled to testify before the House Appropriations Committee today in support of the supplemental financing.
The Office of Management and Budget, the Administration's budgetary arm, has also called for continued financing of the Superconducting Supercollider, provided that Congress agrees. But the financing schedule proposed by the Administration would extend construction of the accelerator by two or three years, adding to its cost.
If the Administration's plan is adopted by Congress, some $640 million would be appropriated for the supercollider in 1994, an increase of $108 million over 1993 spending. Appropriations would later increase by 3 percent a year until the planned completion of the project in the year 2003. Such a financing rate would substantially delay completion, however, and experts estimate that the project's cost would increase from its present estimated cost to about $10 billion from $8.4 billion.
Construction of the supercollider, near Waxahachie, Tex., is roughly one-quarter complete, its officials say, with nearly $2 billion spent so far. Its main component is a circular tunnel 54 miles in circumference. But the project could face major opposition in Congress this year. Last year the House of Representatives voted to withhold funds for the project, but financing was restored after a favorable vote in the Senate.
Both the Reagan and Bush Administrations, as well as Congress, had pushed for substantial foreign contributions to the supercollider's cost, but the major foreign partner the United States has tried to enlist, Japan, has so far failed to commit itself to the project. Japanese officials have said they are studying various alternative approaches to accelerator design.
Another potential foreign partner in the Supercollider, Taiwan, announced yesterday that it had decided to withdraw from the project. The cabinet's National Science Council voted against participating on the ground that its proposed $50 million share in the project was too expensive.
"Stretching out SSC construction by a couple of years probably won't damage the program," said a spokesman for the project, Russ Wylie, "but it will certainly push the cost up, which is undesirable." Mr. Wylie noted that President Clinton has said that he supported the project.
The wording of the Government's proposed supplement to the present National Science Foundation budget underscores Mr. Clinton's belief that research should have identifiable economic and social benefits. Of the $207 million sought for the agency, 55 percent, or $112 million, would be designated for "strategic research."
 
Increases in 5 Areas
 Including the proposed supplement, the 1993 appropriation of $2.94 billion would significantly increase financing of five major fields of applied research. Advanced manufacturing techniques would get $113 million, $206 million would go for biotechnology, $318 million for materials research, $261 million for high-performance computing and communications, and $163 million for global change research.
The other 45 percent of the supplementary budget, some $85 million, would be applied to "enabling research," a broad field including pure scientific research, Dr. Massey said. This money would go to individuals and small groups to finance new studies and increase funds for existing ones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PHYSICS; SUPERCONDUCTING SUPERCOLLIDER BUDGETS (92%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (92%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); TESTIMONY (87%); PHYSICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BROWNE, MALCOLM W RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



685 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Security Plan Aims Savings At Tenants

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
To encourage tenants to become more involved in curbing crime in their buildings, the New York City Housing Authority plans to let residents use money saved by safety improvements.
Sally Hernandez-Pinero, the chairwoman of the Housing Authority, describes a proposal to allow tenants to spend half of the savings any way they choose in their buildings as part of a broader security plan for the city's housing projects to be released in the next two weeks. She said she would be conducting meetings with dozens of groups of residents, community advocates and employees to fine-tune the plan. 
 Ms. Hernandez-Pinero said in an interview yesterday that part of the plan involved spending to enhance the buildings by adding locks and fences and making structural improvements that would improve security. She added that some of the proposals would include youth activities and other programs to instill a sense of community in the buildings.
 
Tenant Involvement
 "We want to encourage tenants to chart a course for their own development and to help determine how we get young people engaged," she said. "It's not just tenants' patrols, it's a question of tenant involvement, a sense of tenant community. It's the idea of people taking ownership for their own community."
Ms. Hernandez-Pinero said that the savings, which would be money budgeted but not spent for items like lock repair, graffiti cleaning or structural repairs, could be used for projects ranging from youth and senior citizens' programs to landscaping.
"It is, in effect, a gain-sharing program," she said, "although tenants will not get paid. But they get a chance to decide where the savings would go in their developments. The point is to say to residents: This is your home, and the money can be reprogrammed in a way that residents think is appropriate."
 
Strengthening Organizations

 She said the Housing Authority planned to encourage residents to become more involved in organizations within their complexes, from tenant patrol groups to those who help determine policies.
She declined to discuss other details of the broader crime prevention plan, which is to be put into effect over the next three years. She said the final draft would not be completed until her meetings with residents, tenants' associations and community groups. The plan was was first reported yesterday in Newsday.
Ms. Hernandez-Pinero said that the entire three-year plan would cost "tens of millions of dollars," about 90 percent of which would come from the Federal Government.
Another part of the program will focus on the Housing Authority's 2,500 police officers, she said. "We are determining if the deployment of officers represents the best way of staffing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PUBLIC HOUSING HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



686 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC TRIMMING WORK FORCE BY 11%

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Pacific Gas and Electric Company of California said yesterday that it would eliminate 3,000 jobs, or 11 percent of its work force, as part of a three-year revamping aimed at cutting $200 million in annual costs. Half the jobs will be cut this year and the rest by the end of 1995. In addition, 7 of the company's 25 operating divisions will be closed and corporate staff consolidated. 
 P.G.& E., the nation's largest investor-owned utility, cited declining revenues caused by the state's economic slowdown and increased industry competition. The San Francisco-based company will resort to layoffs among its 26,600 workers only after exhausting attrition, early retirement, job sharing and other voluntary programs, said Richard A. Clarke, chairman and chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (97%); PCG (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (97%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO PG&E CORP (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LABOR FORCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); JOB SHARING (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



687 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton's Captious Critics

 BODY:
Over the weekend, the public got a look at the Republican response, such as it is. The G.O.P. legislators and their fellow-traveling commentators are worried -- yes, gravely worried -- about President Clinton's economic proposals.
Their arguments, boiled to basics, are twofold. They believe that his efforts to reduce the deficit rely too much on new taxes and not enough on spending cuts. And in words usually reserved for the Apocalypse, they warn that his strategy will vastly expand government's reach, cripple the markets and stampede the nation into statism. 
 Some of the criticism reflects the ruffled pride of a party that suddenly finds itself boxed into a corner. Mr. Clinton has said, Look, I'll take the political hit on the tax side; if you Republicans in Congress, who've been worried about needless spending for years, don't like my cuts, then offer something better.
True, that ploy obscures deficiencies in Mr. Clinton's plan. He wipes out no important Government programs and takes a big bite out of only one, defense. And some of the cuts aren't cuts at all, but rather higher user fees and tax increases on wealthier Social Security recipients.
Yet this much can be said for him: He does more than merely rail against the deficit. And he at least addresses those programs that account for 70 percent of the Federal budget -- Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and defense.
His critics' main line of response is theological. The Clinton formula for revival -- higher taxes, reduced consumption, targeted Government investment -- is the work of the Devil. Better to embrace inertia than to let this heretic from Arkansas set the Government in motion.
There should be no presumption that Mr. Clinton's strategy is right simply because it favors more Government investment. But there's something disingenuous about his critics' nostalgia for Reaganomics, which managed to quadruple the national debt in four years, such that interest payments are now one-seventh of the Federal budget.
The Republicans' intellectual cupboard, to judge from what their leaders say, is barer than at any time since the Goldwater implosion. Challenged to specify cuts, Senator Bob Dole had to pull out the dog-eared script for an "across-the-board" freeze. And there was something wistful about Jack Kemp's appeal to the old supply-side voodoo that if you just cut taxes, the economy will grow its way out of the deficit. For many Americans, that didn't work the first time, and to them Mr. Clinton's counterargument seems worth a try.
Where the opposition could profitably spend its time is not in abstract potshots at government's legitimate role in American society, but in arguments over the dirty details. After all, Mr. Clinton's strategy will rise or fall partly on whether the specific spending programs he proposes are good or bad for the economy.
Should taxpayers' money be used to support research on technology? Develop programs of national service for high school graduates? Are a few billion dollars well spent on high-speed rail? Low-cost housing? Early childhood education?
Mr. Clinton has offered his choices. His critics should provide others. This is especially true of the Republicans, who had an entire decade to argue that the Magic of the Marketplace would fix every problem. In November, the voters seemed to call for a new level of government engagement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY MEDICAID (54%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY MEDICAID (54%); MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); MEDICARE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RELIGION (64%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



688 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Nobody Needs Nukes

BYLINE: By Robert S. McNamara; Robert S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, is a member of the Washington Council on Non-Proliferation, which published a longer version of this paper.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the wake of the first and second treaties on reducing strategic arms, many security experts say the world can afford a long pause in nuclear arms control. They are wrong.
Worldwide, there are about 40,000 nuclear warheads with a total destructive power more than a million times that of the Hiroshima bomb. 
 Even assuming that the reductions in the Start treaties, which George Bush and Boris Yeltsin signed, are carried out, the stock of warheads of the five declared nuclear powers -- the U.S., Russia, China, France and Britain -- is not likely to be reduced below 10,000 by the year 2003. By then, the danger of nuclear war will have been lowered but not eliminated.
Firmer steps are needed to lower that risk. That was made clear by disclosures of how close the planet came to nuclear disaster during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. It was a dramatic demonstration of fallibility -- of the degree to which all parties were captives of misinformation, misjudgment and miscalculation.
It can be confidently predicted that the combination of human fallibility and nuclear arms will inevitably lead to nuclear destruction. Therefore, insofar as it is achievable, we should seek a return to a non-nuclear world. I say "insofar as achievable" because one or more declared nuclear powers -- or an international agency -- would have to retain a small nuclear force, at most 100 to 200 warheads, as protection against blackmail by nations that would develop such weapons in secret.
More and more political and military leaders accept the idea that basic changes in the world's approach to nuclear weapons are required. Many have endorsed the idea of returning to a non-nuclear world, among them Les Aspin in a speech at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in June.
Others still believe that the threat to use nuclear weapons prevents conventional war. This was the essential position of a report, "The Role of Nuclear Weapons in the New World Order," prepared by an advisory committee for the Secretary of Defense just over a year ago. Accepting this argument means accepting the risk that if deterrence fails, a nuclear exchange, which will destroy nations, may follow.
The United Nations Security Council could play a central role in stopping the further proliferation of all types of weapons of mass destruction and the means of delivering them.
At least 20 countries possess or can produce at least two types of weapons -- whether nuclear, chemical or biological -- or their delivery systems. Most have, or are believed to be developing, a capability in three or four of these categories.
To halt this proliferation, there is no alternative to collective, coercive Security Council action. It should take this form:
The council would agree to prohibit the development, production and purchase of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and ballistic missiles by countries that do not have them.
Countries violating this ban would be subject to strict economic sanctions. If the sanctions had no effect, a U.N. military force would be given a mandate to eliminate the production capability and destroy any stocks produced or bought.
Countries that have such weapons, including both declared and undeclared nuclear powers such as India, Pakistan and Israel, would be subject to inspection and control, and would be asked to approve a treaty prohibiting first use of nuclear weapons.
Progress on this difficult agenda would be accelerated if the U.S re-examined its own long-term strategic nuclear aims. We need to ask ourselves: What would be the rationale for having 3,500 nuclear weapons 10 years from now?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: HIROSHIMA, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); FRANCE (57%); HIROSHIMA, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (97%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: MCNAMARA, ROBERT S GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



689 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: You Can't Lock Up City Hall and Toss the Key

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Hilary Rosenberg's "Let Cities Go Bankrupt" (Op-Ed, Feb. 3) is certainly right that drastic action is necessary to halt the downward spiral of some cities. Her solutions, however, reveal a misunderstanding of both Federal law and reality.
She fails to distinguish between the role of a corporation and a municipality. In the arcane world of bankruptcy, the distinction between making money (business) and serving the public (government) makes an enormous difference. 
 It is folly to suggest that bankruptcy is like an elixir that produces miraculous changes. One might liken it to a tourniquet to stop a hemorrhage, but it is not a cure. As we taxpayers begin the 40-year process of financing the $500 billion bankruptcy of the country's savings and loan industry, no one can describe the debacle as good theory or good therapy.
Cities already can seek bankruptcy protection under Federal law, but that hasn't changed the accelerating fiscal disparities between richer and poorer communities.
A corporation can go bankrupt, shut its doors and leave its assets for the creditors to divide up. When Eastern Airlines capitulated, the pilots walked away and left their keys in the engines. Eastern simply ceased to exist, and travelers were left to find a way to get from city A to city B.
Cities cannot simply disappear or disassemble themselves; the option of locking up city hall and walking away does not exist. A city has not just assets; it has citizens. Vital services must continue; the city must work out a new financial structure. That was the premise under which Bridgeport, Conn., initiated a bankruptcy action in 1991: to assure essential services while working through a financial crisis.
While the last few years have seen record numbers of personal and corporate bankruptcies, there is little evidence these actions have reaped huge returns for the country, economy or the companies involved. Only those businesses "vulture" investors have determined could be stripped and repackaged at giveaway prices have gained the capital infusions necessary to remain in existence.
There is no quick and direct profit in taking over a purely public entity. A municipal bankruptcy forces a reorganization of the city's fiscal structure, presumably through negotiations between the city's creditors, taxpayers, employees and citizens. The process may alter some practices and procedures, but it doesn't alter the community's resources or its essential needs.
Stopgap measures may offer temporary relief, but they are not real solutions. Consider what's at stake in selling or "privatizing" the few assets the poorest cities might own. Is a onetime infusion of cash at the expense of losing a long-term asset a step toward survival or a slide toward death?
 
DONALD J. BORUT
Exec. Dir., National League of Cities
Washington, Feb. 11, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES EASTERN AIR LINES INC (55%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (59%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (59%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); AIRLINES (66%); 

PERSON: BORUT, DONALD J; ROSENBERG, HILARY

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



690 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: Effects Are Unclear In Limits On Medical Residents' Hours

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
Four years and nearly $1 billion after New York State adopted the nation's strictest limits on the hours worked by medical residents, it is unclear whether the changes have helped or hurt patient care, doctors and hospital administrators say.
In many hospital departments, the rules are simply ignored, meaning that residents are working well beyond the 80-hour-a-week limit imposed by the state and are potentially more vulnerable to exhaustion and mistakes. 
 And where they are being followed, strict enforcement of the rules is resulting in a time-clock approach under which, critics charge, residents leave in the middle of procedures or delay tests because it is time to go home.
Still others, including the author of the original regulations, argue that the rules have not gone far enough and still allow residents to continue exercising too much responsibility.
The changes have cost more than $840 million so far, considered a significant figure even in the state's large health-care budget. While there is little statistical scientific evidence evaluating the changes, a few studies do exist.
 
Loopholes and Lapses
 They hint strongly at a system that does not work as planned. One small review of one hospital found increased delays in ordering tests for patients, although there was no increase in medical complications because of those delays. Sporadic surveys by the New York State Department of Health found that of 24 hospitals, more than half were not complying with the limits on working hours. And an internal review of New York City's 11 public hospitals found that compliance varied widely, with lapses attributed largely to a shortage of money.
"This is one of the grandest of experiments in medical education," said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, which represents most of the city's private hospitals. "What are the results? No one really knows."
The experiment was triggered by the death of Libby Zion in 1984, shortly after she was admitted to New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center with a high fever. Her father, Sidney Zion, a lawyer and journalist, blamed inadequate care and the errors of unsupervised medical residents for her death.
An appeals court eventually cleared the doctors of wrongdoing, but the outcry over the case led to sweeping changes in the state's system of medical education. Those changes, which took effect on July 1, 1989, were put in place over the fierce objections of many doctors and hospital administrators who feared that by reducing the hours of a residency, the state was also reducing its educational value.
Although there are exceptions, the rules essentially prohibit residents from working more than 80 hours a week, as opposed to the 110 to 120 hours that were common previously. In addition, current medical residents may not work for more than 24 consecutive hours (compared with 36 before 1989).
The Department of Health increased the reimbursement rate to hospitals by $160 million per year, according to a department spokeswoman, Frances E. Tarleton, to enable the institutions to hire more support staff and senior doctors to perform the tasks that had been performed by residents. In addition, Mr. Raske said, the hospitals have increased their own spending by between $50 million and $60 million a year, meaning that the cost of implementing the rules is $210 million to $220 million a year over each of the past four years.
Despite the cost, the rules are not always enforced. Although the Health Department has not done a comprehensive survey (one is scheduled to begin this summer), it does include checks of compliance in its standard reviews of hospital care.
In 24 reviews between July 1990 and December 1991, 15 hospitals were found to violate the limits in at least one department, said Wayne M. Osten, assistant director for health-care surveillance for the department.
One reason hospitals give for violating the regulations is money. In other hospitals, the lapses are more philosophical than economic. While it would seem self-evident that doctors' skills would deteriorate over long hours, there are no definitive studies to show that.
Among the strongest opponents of the new rules were surgeons and obstetricians, who argued that those specialties cannot run by the clock. In fact, the state made an exception to the rules for surgery departments, saying that residents there can work more than 24 hours if they get sufficient rest while in the hospital, if they are not on call more frequently than every third night and if they have at least 16 hours off after a night on call.
 
Surgeons Resist
 But even with the exceptions, surgery departments do not always follow the rules.
"No one's ever complied with the regulations at all," said one surgical resident at a private hospital who said he is on call as often as every other night and his weeks are commonly more than 80 hours long.
Some surgical residents say they consider the extra hours part of the job. "We only have a certain number of years to learn a large number of procedures, and that means operating as often as I can," said another resident at another hospital.
In those departments where the rules are enforced, the results are not always as intended. Critics of the new system say it fosters an atmosphere in which residents feel less personal responsibility for their patients, particularly at hospitals that solve the scheduling puzzle by assigning some residents to work only nights and others to work only days for specified periods, then switching them at intervals, so that residents rarely work more than 12 hours at a time.
"When you're on all day, then all night, then all day, those become your patients and you become incredibly protective," said one senior doctor, who completed his own residency just before the limits. "The residents today look at it as just a job, and you can't treat medicine as just a job."
 
Increase in 'Sign-Outs'
 Shorter work periods mean more frequent "sign-outs," periods in which the departing residents update the incoming residents on the condition of each patient. More than one resident interviewed likened sign-outs to a game of telephone, in which information gets lost as it passes from one doctor to the next.
One study at New York Hospital suggests that a result of more frequent sign-outs may be confusion in ordering tests and procedures. The researchers compared the charts of 263 patients who were discharged from that hospital's general medicine service in October 1988, before the new rules took effect, with the charts of the same number of patients discharged from the same hospital a year later, four months after the shorter hours were instituted.
The study found virtually no differences in the medical outcomes of the cases. But the patients treated under the new rules suffered more frequent in-hospital complications and more frequent delays of tests.
 
Instigator Disagrees
 Such criticisms rankle Dr. Bertrand M. Bell, a professor of medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and the chairman of the commission that created the new regulations.
The New York Hospital study, he said, had several limitations that mean it should not be taken as a definitive portrait of the current system. The study, published last month in the Journal of the American Medical Association, looks at just one institution, which Dr. Bell said was not a large enough sample on which to generalize. That one institution happens to be the one in which Miss Zion died, and "It's in their interest to prove that the regs are worse" than the status quo, he said.
Dr. Joseph G. Hayes, an author of the study and head of the residency program at New York Hospital's department of medicine, said he is a supporter of the new regulations. "If the state decided tomorrow, 'Don't do the Bell commission hours,' I'd keep doing them anyway," he said.
His study, he said, was not intended as the definitive comment on the regulations. Nor was it intended to torpedo them. "What's important is that the Bell system caused minor problems, not major problems. The next step is to address those problems."
In response to charges that the rules have fractured intrahospital communication, Dr. Bell said that the problem is not the rules but rather the quality of sign-out procedures. "If you carry that logic to the extreme then no one would ever sign out to anyone, and doctors would never stop working," he said.
The main problem with the regulations, Dr. Bell said, is something else entirely. In addition to a limit on residents' working hours, Dr. Bell's commission recommended that the supervision of medical residents be sharply increased. He does not believe that those sections of the new rules are being properly enforced.
"There has been no change," Dr. Bell said. "If you go to New York Hospital right now, you will be taken care of by residents," a situation he said exists in nearly every teaching hospital in the city. "There is no evidence to show that the attending physicians, hired with such fanfare, are really in charge; no documentation of how often the attending physician is called, of who is actually writing the orders."
Dr. Hayes disagreed. "Your basic care at New York Hospital is by an attending physician," he said. "No way are residents loose cannons in my hospital."
 
Core Belief Challenged
 Many health-care professionals disagree with Dr. Bell's core belief that care by residents is worse than care by senior attending doctors. Senior surgery residents, they say, have had four years of training in medical school and five years of post-graduate training. And because medicine changes so rapidly in this era of virulent technology, many argue that those most recently out of school are actually the most up to date, despite continuing education requirements.
"Age is completely irrelevant," said one third-year surgical resident at a large private hospital. "I know 25-year-olds I wouldn't trust to cross the street safely, and I know 25-year-olds who are the most brilliant doctors you could know. I am cocky. I am good at what I do." Because it is not completely clear who is doing the treating and the teaching in the state's hospitals, the Health Department plans to begin a study this June, conducted by Johns Hopkins University, the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard University.
Dr. Alfred Gellhorn, director of medical affairs for the department, said the study is intended to replace speculation with statistics.
"Medicine is science," he said. "It's time we knew -- scientifically -- the effects of what we have done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HOSPITAL-CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOSPITAL-CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; WORKING HOURS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA; HAYES, JOSEPH G (DR)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1993



691 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Keep Japanese Presence in New York City, Dinkins Urges Leaders in Tokyo

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 23

 BODY:
At the start of his term, Mayor David N. Dinkins recalled today, he often had to answer critics who complained that the Japanese were buying up New York. This afternoon, walking from office tower to office tower in downtown Tokyo, Mr. Dinkins told Japan's leading bankers and business executives that in the 1990's they should hold on to what they bought.
"It is very clear to me that the Japanese presence in our city is absolutely essential to keeping New York a dynamic, global city of opportunity in the 21st century," he told a group of some of the country's most powerful executives today. And in the face of an unexpectedly severe economic downturn in Japan that is leading many companies to think about selling some of the Manhattan properties they bought in the 1980's, Mr. Dinkins repeated time and again today that "we want you to stay and to grow in our city." 
 Mr. Dinkins's appeal to Keidanren, the politically powerful organization of Japan's largest businesses, came on the third and most important day of his weeklong tour of Japan. And while he found a largely receptive audience, with companies telling him that they would stick it out, he also heard warnings that philanthropic contributions and expansion plans would be cut back until Tokyo emerges from its economic mire.
 
A Week of Buyouts
 In fact, only one major Japanese investor, an auto parts maker, has pulled out of the New York metropolitan region recently, and the New York real-estate executives accompanying the Mayor seemed particularly relieved that no one else was talking about major property sales that could drive the market -- and tax revenues -- down.
Nonetheless, Mr. Dinkins arrived during one of Tokyo's tougher weeks, when business leaders were eliminating unprofitable divisions and buying out workers over 50. Mr. Dinkins did not even try to ask for more Japanese investment in New York City. And wherever the Mayor went, he was peppered with questions about the prospects for President Clinton's economic-recovery package -- Mr. Dinkins said he thought it would bring New York more than $500 million in additional Federal aid -- and whether the new North American Free Trade Agreement would put Japanese businesses at a disadvantage.
But several questioned him on his plans to attack crime, drugs and dirt on the streets of New York, reminding a few people in his entourage that the city's image on Japanese television is still overwhelmingly negative.
"It's quite amazing how many of these executives have lived in New York and regard it as a sort of second home," Deputy Mayor Barry F. Sullivan said as Mr. Dinkins circulated among Japanese executives who were once based in New York. "They know the city well, and they ask tough questions."
 
Tours and Food
 Mr. Dinkins himself has spent some time investigating what keeps Tokyo from being overwhelmed by the sheer density of its population: Roughly 30 million people live in the metropolitan area, though only a little more than 8 million in Tokyo's 23 wards. He visited the newly built high-tech skyscraper that houses Tokyo's metropolitan government and, on Monday evening, sat down to a lavish, traditional Japanese meal sponsored by the the city's governor, Shunichi Suzuki. Perhaps fearful that the city had ordered too much food, the governor also invited Akebono, the 470-pound Hawaiian who recently became the first foreigner ever made a grand champion in sumo wrestling.
Mr. Dinkins's main message, he said, was to thank the Japanese for what he called a growing contribution to New York's cultural life and its charities.
"This is a practice that is relatively new to the Japanese," he said, "but it is one which they have taken to with vigor. The fact is that they are becoming some of our best corporate neighbors."
On Wednesday night Mr. Dinkins will take his entourage to Osaka, Japan's second-largest metropolitan area, for two more days of touring and meeting with the business community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



692 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Administration Completing Plan To Ease Rules on Bank Lending

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said today that the Administration and banking regulators were completing a plan to ease banking regulations to encourage more lending, especially to small businesses.
According to interviews with officials in the Administration, Congress and the Federal Reserve, the plan would make it easier for bankers to lend to people they know based on the borrower's character rather than a strict analysis of their collateral, cash flow or credit history. The plan would also lessen paperwork and ease other restrictions for small-business loans. 
 In separate appearances today, the President and Mr. Greenspan said that the plan would be released soon and was meant to help small business -- which the President has repeatedly said is the main engine of job growth in the nation. The plan could also be a way to stimulate the economy without the Government having to spend a cent.
 
Breaking 'Credit Crunch'
 "I hope we will have something useful reasonably soon," Mr. Greenspan said in testimony before a subcommittee of the House Banking Committee, adding that the plan would include "newer ways to break the back of the credit crunch."
The so-called crunch developed in the wake of the savings and loan crisis as regulators cracked down on banks and bankers grew nervous about lending. Many economists say banks' reluctance to lend has slowed the recovery in New England and other regions, and both the White House and Fed have faced intense pressure to do something about it.
Administration officials said the plan would not require new legislation, relying instead on changes in banking regulations. Several officials said the Administration had originally contemplated more sweeping changes in bank regulations to encourage more lending, but shunned that approach, fearing that a major reduction in regulation could weaken the banking system.
The plan would ease some of the requirements on appraising collateral for small business and would make it easier for bankers to challenge decisions by examiners that loans had been provided without sufficient collateral.
Banking executives were happy about the plan, but said they wanted even more regulations swept away.
"It would be welcomed by the bank industry," said Kenneth Gunther, executive vice president of the Independent Bankers Association, which has 6,000 small- and medium-sized banks as members. But he added that the "current regulatory burden" would remain until existing laws were amended.
The new plan is expected to take some political pressure off both the Administration and the Federal Reserve. President Clinton pledged during the campaign to make it easier for small businesses to obtain loans. And Mr. Greenspan and the Federal Reserve have faced severe criticism for not doing more to encourage bank lending.
Speaking today before executives at the United States Chamber of Commerce, President Clinton said, "In the next few days, we will be announcing some initiatives that we're going to take from a regulatory point of view to try to deal with the credit crunch, to try to make it possible for banks to loan money to businesses again, to try to release the energies for the old-fashioned character small-business loans, to try to reduce the fear that a lot of banks have that if they make sensible loans the Government will come down on them."
 
Plenty of Paperwork
 In his Congressional testimony today, Mr. Greenspan said the pendulum might have swung toward over-regulation after laxness a decade ago helped produce the savings and loan crisis. He and other Fed officials have often said that banks face so much paperwork on small-business loans that they are discouraged from making such loans.
The Federal Reserve and the Bush Administration eased some regulations last year, but many small businesses said those moves did not go nearly far enough. The Federal Reserve cannot change all the regulations itself because it shares responsibility for bank regulation with the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Treasury Department is coordinating efforts to alter the regulations.
Several officials said the Administration and regulators were also thinking of making it easier for small banks to lend money to members of their boards. Federal banking laws passed two years ago severely restricted this practice, but business executives from small towns -- many of whom sit on the board of the one bank in their town -- assert that this restriction unduly limits lending and hampers economic growth.
Some officials are uneasy about changing this rule. "One of the things we saw in failed banks and thrifts was a lot of insider dealings," said Charles A. Bowsher, the Comptroller General of the United States, the nation's top auditor. "So I think this has to be done very carefully."
Officials said the plan outlined today would give banks with a solid capital base the most latitude to make loans based on character. This change is expected to apply for the most part to loans to small business, and not to large corporations.
According to several officials, the plan is likely to make it easier for banks to appeal unfavorable decisions by bank examiners. For example, if an examiner finds that a bank has insufficient collateral on a loan, a bank can often appeal to the examiner's superior -- a move that often makes examiners even angrier at a bank. Administration officials are developing a plan to allow an appeal or second opinion outside normal channels, perhaps from an independent review board.
 
Must Set Aside Funds
 When an examiner finds that collateral for a loan is insufficient, the bank often must set aside some cash to cover that loan. That hurts profits because the bank cannot use that money for regular banking purposes.
The plan is also likely to tighten regulation and enforcement in several areas, including consumer protection and banks' exposure to interest rate risk. Many regulators fear that banks have bought so many Treasury bonds that they might get hurt by a sudden swing in interest rates.
Some banking experts insist that regulation is not the cause of the credit crunch. In their view, banks are reluctant to lend for two reasons: the economy is so shaky and many banks have found it is more profitable and less risky to buy Treasury bonds.
After many executives complained to them about the credit crunch, members of Congress said they were pleased by word of the plan. "The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act may have swung a little too far, particularly in the way it was interpreted by regulators," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is on the House Banking Committee.
David Berry, director of research for Keefe Bruyette & Woods, a brokerage firm specializing in bank stocks, said the plan could increase bank lending by several billion dollars, perhaps by several tens of billion. But he said he doubted the plan could raise lending by close to $86 billion a year -- the amount by which one banking executive told Mr. Clinton lending could be increased as a result of eased regulations.
Mr. Greenspan said he was interested in proposals to create a secondary market for small-business loans in which financial institutions would buy the loans from banks, freeing up additional bank funds for such loans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before testifying at a House Banking subcommittee hearing, Alan Greenspan, left, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, spoke with Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, a Democratic lawmaker from Pennsylvania. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CREDIT; SMALL BUSINESS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); BANK FAILURES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



693 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Reached on Timing of Votes: Cuts and Taxes First, Then Stimulus

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Seeking to demonstrate President Clinton's determination to cut old programs before adding new ones, the White House announced today that Congress would vote on a budget resolution supporting the President's proposals to trim spending and raise taxes a few days before it voted on new spending for his economic stimulus package.
Both votes would come by the end of March, White House officials said. 
 Lawmakers had originally planned to act in March on the short-term stimulus package, which calls for spending $16 billion, with the vote on taxes and spending cuts coming a month or more later.
White House officials said they hoped the new timing, worked out in negotiations between Administration and Congressional officials, would quiet some conservative and moderate Democrats who had threatened to oppose the plan out of concern that the package raised taxes too much, or out of suspicion that the spending cuts would never be made.
 
A Victory of Timing
 White House officials said the maneuver was an important victory in their strategy to get the plan approved by Congress.
"We didn't want the process bogged down in any kind of gridlock," a senior Administration official said. "The public needs to be persuaded that the spending cuts are very real. This makes that very clear. The best way to demonstrate our earnestness is to proceed with a plan that has tough reductions."
The deal was announced hours after Mr. Clinton opened a drive to win over skeptics in an hourlong appeal to the United States Chamber of Commerce. The speech was part of an effort by the President and Cabinet officials to deliver high-intensity pitches for the economic plan, even to potentially skeptical audiences.
The timing strategy was disclosed after it was agreed upon by Mr. Clinton, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley and George J. Mitchell, the Senate Democratic leader.
George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said the President had asked Congressional leaders to accelerate the budget vote "so we could lock in the spending cuts as soon as possible, and they have agreed."
The strategy gives reluctant lawmakers one less excuse to vote against the package, since they would have a harder time raising concerns that tax increases might be enacted without spending cuts.
White House officials said they had impressed on Congressional leaders the strong public support Mr. Clinton had received for his budget plan. "You strike when the iron is hot," one official said.
 
Nothing Etched in Stone
 The precise cuts will not be locked in, however, because the budget resolution does not have the force of law and is only a road map for Congress. But Mr. Stephanopoulos said, "Especially in the present environment, we consider it highly unlikely that anyone would attempt to exceed the spending level set in the budget resolution."
Mr. Foley told reporters that the agreement meant that the stimulus package would be voted on a week or two later than initially planned and that the budget resolution would be taken up a month earlier. He said he and the President believed that "before the stimulus-investment package is considered by the House, it's important for members and the country to understand we've committed to the broad program of the President's initiatives, including the spending cuts."
 
'The Right Direction'
 Some Democrats who had raised concerns about the President's economic proposal welcomed the agreement. Representative Timothy J. Penny, a conservative Democrat from Minnesota, called it "a step in the right direction."
"It is important that we show we are taking a bold direction in deficit reduction," Mr. Penny said.
In his speech to the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Clinton sought to convince a predominantly Republican audience of business people that they would ultimately benefit from his plan to raise taxes and cut spending. And for the first time he said there were "more cuts coming." He did not elaborate on what they would be.
Though he spoke mostly of sacrifice, Mr. Clinton offered an enticement, saying he would soon announce plans to ease regulations on banks to make it easier for business to get loans.
The business group gave Mr. Clinton the sort of friendly reception it usually reserves for Republicans. White House officials said that they met earlier in the day to discuss the efforts to sell Mr. Clinton's plan and that they were pleased with the generally positive public feedback to the plan so far. But the officials said they had also agreed that the President needed to maintain a sustained drive to generate support and enthusiasm, particularly among people who would not be his natural allies.
"This is not about preaching to the choir," said Marla Romash, the press secretary to Vice President Al Gore, who will devote much of his time seeking support for the program. "This is about reaching out to Americans all over the country."
 
Dozens of Interviews
 Early next week, for example, Mr. Clinton is scheduled to meet with Republican lawmakers who have been openly critical of his proposal. Administration officials have been made available to local television stations for dozens of interviews on the plan, and Jeff Eller, the White House director of media affairs, said that if the schedule permited, Mr. Clinton would sit down for interviews by local stations.
Besides weekly trips around the country by Mr. Clinton, officials said, Cabinet members will continue heavy travel schedules. Seven were on Capitol Hill today lobbying for the plan.
"It is important that we pay attention to who is supportive and who is not supportive," said one official who attended the meeting. "There's a logic to what's going on. And the message to people who are skeptical is that the plan is the best chance of significant deduction that's out there."
The President told the Chamber, "I came here today to ask for your support for my economic plan to take this country in a new direction because I believe it will make businesses more competitive and workers more productive, and will help us to deal with some of the principle problems that we have faced over the last several years."
He drew applause when he said, "We have to change the way Government operates and relates to the private sector in very fundamental ways."
While the Chamber of Commerce had warned last year that Mr. Clinton's election would increase Government regulation and saddle companies with new Federal restrictions, the audience today interrupted the President's speech with applause several times. The chamber's board of directors issued a statement today saying it "applauds President Clinton's goals of reducing the deficit, cutting spending, creating jobs and stimulating the economy. The spending cuts can and should be expanded."
 
Engine of Growth
 Anticipating that concern, Mr. Clinton repeatedly assured his audience that there would be no tax increases without spending cuts.
"Let me be clear again," he declared. "This Administration understands clearly that the private sector is the central engine of economic growth. I have tried to put together a plan that will enable you to succeed."
Several chamber members, most of them Republicans, who were interviewed at random after the speech had only encouragement for Mr. Clinton. "He got a much better reception than I though he would," said Kenneth H. Busz, executive director of the Eastern Monmouth Area Chamber of Commerce in Red Bank, N.J.
"He played it well. It was a much warmer reception than two weeks ago when he spoke to the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce."
Asked why businesses were ready for tax increases, he said that something had to be done, because "we're choking ourselves to death now."
Lothar Bacher, who owns a small metal-processing business in Chicago, said, "I think the plan is very good. I just hope he's able to get it through. Too many businesses are just too greedy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bob Dole, second from right, was joined by Senators Pete V. Domenici, second from left, and Bob Packwood, right, as they gathered charts before a news conference yesterday to give the Republican position on President Clinton's economic plan. At left was Walt Riker, a Dole aide. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); "It is bad business to let the status quo persist," President Clinton told business leaders at the United States Chamber of Commerce. In an effort to garner support for his economic plan, he sought to temper concerns with a promise of more cuts in Federal spending. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



694 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
A plan to ease banking regulations and encourage lending, especially to small businesses, is being prepared, President Clinton and Alan Greenspan said in separate appearances. The plan is said to make it easier for bankers to lend based on a borrower's character, rather than a strict analysis of financial data. [Page A1.]
President Clinton's plan to bolster industrial technology involves almost no increase in total spending on research, but it would redirect billions from military programs. [A14.] 
 Consumer confidence in the economy tumbled 8 points in early February, as a wave of layoffs at some of the nation's best-known companies shook Americans' faith in the recovery. [D1.]
New York State is knitting together millions of dollars in inducements to keep General Motors from closing a mini-van plant in Tarrytown that employs 3,000 workers. [B1.]
A Washington tax lawyer was nominated by President Clinton to be the new Commissioner of Internal Revenue. [D2.]
 
International
Japanese business leaders are warning the Government that a stronger yen is not the answer to the country's widening trade surplus and that the currency's recent run-up will bring layoffs and bankruptcies, making a bad economy worse. [D1.]
President Clinton's criticism that European governments subsidized the Airbus aircraft consortium at the expense of American jobs was greeted with scorn in Europe. [D1.]
 
Business Technology
A $1 billion market by 1996 is expected for heart defibrillators, which deliver electric shocks to correct irregular heartbeats. Patients say the shocks feel like a kick in the chest by a horse. [A1.]
The retail industry's attempt to adopt a single technology for electronic anti-shoplifting systems has incited a battle. [D7.]
 
Companies
The president of Matsushita Electric, Japan's largest consumer electronics company and owner of MCA, the Hollywood studio, resigned amid a financial scandal. [D5.]
China agreed to discuss buying equipment from A.T.& T. in a deal that could be worth billions of dollars. [D5.]
Lucasarts will spin off Industrial Light and Magic, its movie special effects unit, and Skywalker Sound, its audio unit. [D5.]
Nissan will cease automobile assembly in what was once its flagship Japanese factory and cut 5,000 jobs in three years. [D5.]
Home Shopping Network named the vice chairman of Whittle as its next president and chief executive. [D6.]
 
Markets
Treasury bond prices continued their surge. The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 6.82 percent, and the 10-year note fell to 5.89 percent, the lowest level since January 1972. [D1.]
The shares of retailers and others that depend on consumer spending were battered. The Dow lost 19.72 points. [D8.]
The dollar was mixed in hectic trading, remaining under pressure from tumbling bond yields. Gold was mixed. [D18.]
Wheat and soybeans rose on optimism that American officials would offer food aid to Russia or resolve its debt problem. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
The 5 percent drop in retail stocks so far this year has puzzled some analysts, who can find no reasons for the drop amid reports of strong earnings and sales. Market Place. [D8.]
Advertisers are showing a propensity to revise campaigns -- even those intended to last forever -- after they have already been exposed to the public. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); AIRBUS SAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BONDS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); BOND MARKETS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RETAILERS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (69%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (67%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); SHOPLIFTING (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); LAYOFFS (55%); MINIVANS (54%); LAWYERS (53%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



695 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Battle Culture And Poverty to Swell Hispanic Enrollments

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OBERLIN, Ohio

 BODY:
When Juan Morales graduated from a high school in California three years ago, he set his sights on Oberlin College, a small liberal-arts college in Ohio. He had no way of knowing what a difficult journey it would become for him, or for Oberlin.
Mr. Morales had only a C average, but the college, which is known for its academic excellence, accepted him anyway, based on his potential. He could not afford the $24,000-a-year tuition, so Oberlin supplied most of that. When he cried twice in his first year because of homesickness and considered leaving, he was buoyed by a Hispanic counselor. 
 "I was so desperate for my community," said Mr. Morales, now a junior chemistry major who has a B average and wants to teach in public schools. "I came here, and there were no Mexican people, and I felt alone. But I thought, If I'm to improve my life, this is my chance."
 
Accelerated Recruiting
 As colleges and universities cast ever wider nets to attract more Hispanic students, Mr. Morales's account underscores how difficult that effort can be, even for a college that recruits as aggressively as Oberlin does.
Since the mid-1980's, campus recruiters have accelerated and improved their efforts by making more trips to the Southwest and West, for example, and by arranging a wider array of services, like counseling and tutoring, to retain students. But their efforts have had little impact.
Eighteen percent of Hispanic people between 18 and 24 are enrolled in four-year colleges, compared with 34 percent of whites and 24 percent of blacks, according to the American Council on Education.
Of the nearly nine million students enrolled on four-year campuses, 17.8 percent are Hispanic, 23.4 percent are black and 36.8 percent are white, according the Department of Education.
There are no reliable statistics on how many Hispanic students who enroll ultimately graduate, but educators note that only a small percentage of college graduates are of Hispanic descent. Just 3.1 percent of all bachelor's degrees awarded in the country in 1990 went to Hispanic people, who make up 8.4 percent of the adult population.
That compares with 5.8 percent for blacks, who make up 11.3 percent of the adult population, and 84.3 percent for whites, who comprise 84.8 percent of the adult population, according to Education Department statistics. Asians, who represent 3 percent of the adult population, earned 3.7 percent of all bachelor's degrees awarded in 1990.
"It doesn't come easy," David Arredondo, the associate admissions officer at Oberlin, said of recruitment and retention efforts. "It takes a lot of work to do both, and sometimes some of the kids don't make it."
 
Strength of Family Ties
 College officials say they continually bump into one obstacle they had not fully grasped until recently: the Hispanic culture, in which the family comes first, often frowns on a son or daughter leaving home to attend school.
College and university officials tell of recruiting Hispanic students only to have their parents block their enrollments. Last spring Carlos Ayala and Maria de Jesus Ayala in El Paso refused to let their daughter, Alicia, attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, saying that her place was at home. Telephone calls from M.I.T. and officials of the El Paso schools did not sway the parents, whose daughter now attends the University of Texas at El Paso.
 
Problems on Campus
 Once enrolled, Hispanic students are more likely than others to drop out to take jobs to help support their families, admissions officers say, and others leave because they cannot function outside an extended family.
Retention rates are also kept low by academic problems, as some students are unable to do college work. That is not surprising, college administrators say, because a preponderance of Hispanic students attend public schools in underfinanced districts that cannot afford the college-preparatory courses.
Some students say that racism also takes its toll.
At the University of Notre Dame last year, Lonnie Limon, then a freshman from Austin, Tex., said a classmate who was giving a party called him a wetback and threw him out.
"I called my Mom and told her I wanted to come back to Austin and go to U.T.," said Mr. Limon, referring to the University of Texas. He turned to Hispanic classmates for support. "If I hadn't been strong," he said, "I would have left."
The tangle of issues is difficult to unravel, experts said, "but the critical ingredient to success is strong leadership from the college presidents who are willing to commit the resources," said Jaime Chahin, an associate vice president for human resources at Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos. "At this point there are very few exemplary institutions."
 
Easier for Catholic Colleges
 Oberlin is an exception, Mr. Chahin said, as are Roman Catholic colleges and universities.
"Catholic institutions have an easier time because of the Catholic tradition most Hispanic families share," said Mary Pat Nolan, president of the Catholic College Admissions Association, whose membership includes nearly all the nation's 222 Catholic colleges and universities. "As a result, distance and cost is less of a factor for us."
A recruiter from Notre Dame recounted how the parents of a student in El Paso had refused to let her attend the University of North Texas, 600 miles from home, but had readily agreed to let her enroll at Notre Dame, about 1,500 miles away, because of its Catholic affiliation.
But for the vast number of campuses, recruitment and retention are bumpy paths, fraught with problems that can leave even the most forward-thinking institutions frustrated. Oberlin, for all its effort, is a case in point.
Five years ago, the private college of 2,800 students accelerated efforts to improve its Hispanic enrollment, using people like Mr. Arredondo on recruiting campaigns that increasingly involved visiting prospective students' homes. As a result, Hispanic enrollment increased to the current 86 from the 71 it had been five years ago, and graduation rates improved to almost 70 percent, from less than 60 percent.
 
Results Still Mixed
 "I've gone to sit in parents' kitchens," Mr. Arredondo said. "I've talked to them on the phone, traveled to meet them."
And still, he said with a sigh, the results were mixed. Last year he visited a family in nearby Lorain, Ohio, to plead with a student's parents to let him attend Oberlin. They would have had to pay only $2,000 of the $24,000 tuition because of a generous aid package, but the parents would not budge.
"The objections from the parents were that he should probably get a job and help the family," Mr. Arredondo said. The underlying problem, he said, is that "there just aren't enough Latino parents around with college degrees, and that's significant."
"They don't understand that a college education can have long-term economic payoffs," he added.
This is also reflected in the high school dropout rate for Hispanic students, which, at 35.3 percent is far higher than for most other ethnic groups.
 
Trips to West and Southwest
 Increasingly, the Ivy League institutions, the so-called public Ivies, like the University of Michigan, and other colleges say their representatives or alumni recruiters are making sweeps through the Southwest and West, where most of the nation's Hispanic population lives. Notre Dame does that and more by dispatching Maria Fuentes to cultivate recruits.
"When parents look at me, they see their daughter or son," said Ms. Fuentes, 25, a Notre Dame alumna whose fluency in Spanish helps overcome barriers. Ms. Fuentes said that despite the built-in advantage of Notre Dame's Catholic ties, "the problem I have to deal with is parents think their son or daughter won't care for them or their family as much when they go away to school."
Notre Dame's efforts have resulted in a Hispanic enrollment of more than 400 students out of a student body of about 7,600, compared with about 200 five years ago.
But recruiting students may be just a battle half won. Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif., has learned that to retain Hispanic students it needs to offer extra academic and emotional support. It created the Cultural Enrichment Center 18 months ago to give minority students tutoring, counseling and a place to meet socially.
Marissa Favila credited the center with guiding her through a difficult first year. Now a sophomore, Ms. Favila said the center put her in touch with other Hispanic students when she was working at a part-time job to help pay the $24,000-a-year tuition. Her absence from campus events, she said, made her feel alienated from other students.
"Just knowing there is someone else going through the same thing you are helps a lot," Ms. Favila said.
Other institutions are even more aggressive, inviting students to campus before the fall semester for a sort of boot camp on college life.
At St. Edward's University in Austin, for example, students are helped with academic basics and the intricacies of financial aid and dormitory living, all in 10 days. Administrators also monitor the students' academic and social progress in the first semester. And at Christmas, St. Edward's pays travel expenses for students to go home.
Seventy-nine percent of Hispanic freshmen who attended the program returned for their sophomore year, compared with a 62 percent return rate for all members of the freshman class.
For Angel Maldonado, a freshman from McAllen, Tex., the university's services were crucial. "At first I was very homesick," said the 19-year-old accounting major. "It was difficult for my family, too. My sisters wanted me to come home every weekend. But the program helped me meet other people and make friends. And my parents, as much as they miss me, now want me to finish."
To the relief of recruiters, the attitudes of Hispanic parents seem to be changing slowly. David Villarreal said that when M.I.T. accepted him in the spring he did not want to leave his hometown of El Paso. But "my parents said, 'No, you should go.' They insisted." His mother did not go to college, and his father attended the University of Texas at El Paso for 18 months.
"They wanted what was best for me," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I came here, and there were no Mexican people, and I felt alone," said Juan Morales, a junior chemistry major at Oberlin College in Ohio. "But I thought, if I'm to improve my life, this is my chance." (Ron Kuntz for The New York Times); David Villarreal said that when M.I.T. accepted him he did not want to leave his hometown of El Paso. But "my parents said, 'No, you should go,' " he said. "They insisted. They wanted what was best for me." (Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: OBERLIN COLLEGE; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OBERLIN COLLEGE; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ENROLLMENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (64%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



696 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Banks Lower Deposit Rates Slightly

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered by banks on money market accounts and certificates of deposit for the week beginning today are modestly down from those offered last week, particularly in the longer maturities and at commercial banks.
In the New York market, six-month C.D. rates were lower than those at 20 major banks across the country, with the decline in yields on money market accounts about the same everywhere. 
 At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, average discount rates were mixed, with the three-month bill up slightly and the six-month down. The Treasury's auction is regarded by many as a harbinger of bank deposit rate changes in coming weeks.
The average rate at auction yesterday was 2.96 percent for a three-month Treasury bill, up 3 basis points, and 3.06 percent for a six-month bill, down 2 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Bank Rate Monitor, the rate publication, said the recent declines in long-term rates were showing up in six-month C.D.'s at New York banks, whose rates have fallen 5 basis points.
"The downward pressure on returns is coming from a general easing of interest rates worldwide, especially on the long maturities," he said.
According to the latest survey by The Bank Rate Monitor, yields on money market accounts in the New York area have fallen in the last week an average of 2 basis points, to 2.62 percent. Yields on certificates of deposits have also fallen by 2 basis points, to 2.73 percent on three-month maturities and 2.93 percent on six-month maturities.
Chase Manhattan Bank posted the sharpest change among New York banks. The yield on its money market accounts fell by 20 basis points, to 2.33 percent, while three-month certificates dropped by 25 basis points, to 2.38 percent. For a six-month certificate, the yield this week is 2.43 percent, down 26 basis points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND CERTIFICATES; BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST RATES; BANKS AND BANKING; TREASURY BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BOND MARKETS (79%); BONDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



697 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Sasebo Journal;
'Quiet' Navy Base in Japan: Now, the Shock Waves

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SASEBO, Japan, Feb. 17

 BODY:
Ever since American bombers razed a large part of this once-huge naval port at the end of World War II, the United States Navy has used it as a modest-sized support base, a handsomely situated outpost that some sailors sought out as a refuge from the often wilder American bases spread across Japan.
Suddenly, times have changed, and nobody seems very pleased about it. 
 The storms of the cold war may have left the base largely untouched, but a string of violent acts by sailors in the last four months has left this sleepy town battered by swells of dismay and its residents angrily wondering what went wrong.
Just as a flustered Navy was struggling to combat the base's bad image after a serious brawl and then the killing of a gay sailor last fall, a 13-year-old American girl was raped here on Feb. 13. An American sailor has been arrested for the crime.
 
A Brutal Slaying
 That followed the unusually brutal killing last Oct. 27 of the sailor, Allen R. Schindler, a radioman who was about to be discharged from the Navy after having admitted he was homosexual. The case attracted a flood of publicity after President Clinton announced that he had decided to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military.
Two other young sailors from Mr. Schindler's ship, the Belleau Wood, were arrested in the killing, but not before they led the military police on a chase through the town and engaged them in a fight in the middle of a city street. The killing, along with the melee on the base a few weeks earlier, prompted the Mayor of this city of 250,000 in southwest Japan to issue a withering rebuke to the base's commander at the time, Capt. M. K. Collins.
"Under these circumstances, I would like to ask you that you would give your further attention to the education and the discipline of the crew members of the ships lest such incidents take place again," the Mayor, Kumashi Kakehashi, said in a letter written in slightly broken but still expressive English.
Now the base is nervously awaiting the arrival late this month of the Independence, an aircraft carrier that will more than double temporarily the base's population of 4,000 and, some fear, lead to new incidents. All this has left some American sailors and Japanese residents tired of the unwanted attention from the American press, even surly when questioned, but also wary of the evidence of how volatile a military base can become.
 
Yearning for Old Times
 For some Japanese, these unsettling events have lent weight to questions about why the United States Navy still needs to occupy the choicest property in this town now that the cold war is over.
"Economically speaking, some people are saying it is about time we thought about the prosperity of this city instead of national policy," an official in the local government said.
The sailors, for the most part, simply want a return to the soporific pace that attracted many of them in the first place, and many have become edgy when approached by American reporters.
"We keep trying to put this stuff behind us because it's just not what Sasebo is like," said an officer from one ship, who admitted sharing some of the resentment toward the press that sailors have been expressing. "But it's hard not to be concerned."
A sailor chatting with a small group at a popular spot in the bar district known as Sailor Town said to a reporter: "I don't want to talk, and I don't think you should be here. You're just hurting a lot of good guys who had nothing to do with this stuff."
 
Interviews Are Denied
 The Navy has denied all requests for interviews and refused to permit reporters to tour the Belleau Wood, a courtesy normally extended to visitors. Many sailors and officers have been willing to talk, but only if their names are not used.
The Navy's closed policies have attracted some criticism, particularly from Mr. Schindler's mother, Dorothy Hajdys of Chicago Heights, Ill. She has expressed concern over what she has said is evidence that the Navy might be covering up the possibility that Mr. Schindler was killed because he was gay. She has been joined by members of some gay rights groups, who have seized on the case to advance President Clinton's efforts to end the military's ban on homosexuals.
Sasebo was little more than a tiny fishing port in a magnificent natural harbor until 1889, when the Imperial Navy began to transform it into what would become the largest naval base in the Far East. Sasebo eventually contained an enormous dry dock installation and was used as a support base for some of the major sea battles of World War II.
It escaped the cataclysm that befell nearby Nagasaki, which was the second and last city to be hit with an atomic bomb, in August 1945. But by the time the Americans arrived here shortly afterward, much of the base lay in ruins as a result of waves of conventional bombing.
 
War Doesn't Stay Buried
 The Japanese had grown so desperate in the war's closing months that they had turned the kilns of nearby Arita, once a famous porcelain center, into factories for producing grenades. The thick porcelain shells were buried in haste as the Americans drew close, and today sailors say they are still unearthing thousands of the blue and pink casings.
Until recently, collecting these odd souvenirs of a distant time was entertainment enough for some of the sailors. It was quiet then, and news of barroom violence and sadistic crimes was somebody else's problem. Such things, it was believed, just did not happen in Sasebo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rash of violent crime connected with the United States Navy base in Sasebo, Japan, has Japanese residents concerned and has put Americans there on the defensive. The base, above, is expecting the arrival this month of an aircraft carrier that will more than double the base's population. (James Sterngold/The New York Times)
 
Map of Japan, indicating Sasebo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (91%); US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (91%); US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; SASEBO (JAPAN) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; NAVIES ARMED FORCES (92%); NAVIES (92%); MILITARY BASES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); HOMICIDE (73%); ARRESTS (72%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



698 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: For Consumers, a Wobbly Faith

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
A wave of layoffs at some of the nation's best-known corporations shook Americans' faith in the economic recovery earlier this month, raising the specter that consumers will pull back on spending.
The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence tumbled eight points in early February, to 68.5, the New York-based business research group said. The fall reversed more than half of the surge in consumers' spirits in the two months after the Presidential election, though the index remained well above recession readings of 50 or lower.
 
Some Question Findings
 But retailers and economists said the Conference Board results had to be taken with a large grain of salt. 
 "We haven't noticed any decline in traffic or sales," said Mark Hunter, general manager of the Woodland Hills Mall, Oklahoma's biggest shopping center. "Just looking around the mall and talking to merchants, there doesn't appear to be a dramatic shift either way. It's more of a wait-and- see attitude."
Ira Silver, planning manager at the J. C. Penney Company, offered a similar assessment. "We had a lot of momentum in January," he said, "and we seem to have decent momentum in February."
One weekly monitor of actual sales, the Johnson Redbook Service, reported that sales were climbing in mid-February from the previous month.
 
Polled Before Clinton's Address

 
 The Conference Board survey was based on 5,000 mail interviews conducted in the first two weeks of February, several days before the President's speech to Congress on Feb. 17. But Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference Board's consumer research group, and others say the President's speech may have bolstered the outlook of consumers.
"In the last few days, as more of Mr. Clinton's program has become clear, there seems to be a positive response," Mr. Linden said.
The Conference Board is now busy sifting 600 questionnaires that were completed after Mr. Clinton's speech outlining his economic attack plan. "We'll issue a revised figure shortly," Mr. Linden said.
Two readings of the consumer mood taken after the Clinton speech, one by ABC/Money Magazine, the other by the University of Michigan, are coming out later this week.
Spirits slipped in most of the country, especially in the Midwest and New England in the first half of February. The decline in the Middle Atlantic region, which includes New York and New Jersey, was a bit more severe than in the nation as a whole.
"The loss in consumer confidence, and particularly the sharp decline in expectations, is disconcerting," Mr. Linden commented.
The slippage in the confidence numbers was not a total surprise. Many economists had been waiting for some of the post-election euphoria to wear off. "I've been expecting it to come off the highs," said Chris Probyn, a forecaster at DRI/McGraw Hill. "The surge in confidence was partly psychological. A lot of it was based on the assumption that effective Government policies would be put in place."
Furthermore, the Conference Board survey -- the one most closely followed on Wall Street -- is the most volatile of the three major consumer sentiment polls, and the other two have not declined. The University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index was relatively flat -- up half a point to 90.5 -- in first two weeks of February, after strong gains in November and December and a plateau in January. And in the week before the big Clinton speech, the weekly ABC/Money Magazine Consumer Comfort Index showed its first uptick in seven weeks.
While consumer confidence figures are watched closely, spending has not tracked the confidence readings all that closely. Other factors, like income and interest rates, also affect spending.
"The consumer confidence indexes haven't been particularly good leading indicators in the past couple of years," Mr. Silver of J. C. Penney said.
 
Concern Over Job Cuts
 Consumers were clearly discouraged, however, by dramatic announcements in recent weeks by some corporate giants, including I.B.M., Sears and Boeing, that more than 100,000 jobs would be slashed in coming months and years.
The proportion of survey respondents who thought jobs would be hard to get, which had been edging down toward the end of the year, jumped higher. Meanwhile, the percentage of respondents who thought jobs would be plentiful shrank sharply from 7.8 percent to 7.1 percent.
"These are big numbers and people become fearful about the jobs situation when they read about them," said Rosalind Wells, an economist at NPD Group, a Port Washington, L.I., market research company.
The weaker Conference Board reading may well signal some easing from the robust 4 percent pace of spending in last year's second half -- something most economists were predicting.
"Last February's plunge in the Conference Board's index did not portend a disaster," said Mr. Probyn at DRI/McGraw Hill, "but it did accurately foreshadow a slowdown in the rate of increase in consumer spending." He expects outlays to rise at a moderate 3 percent annual rate this quarter and next.


GRAPHIC: According to the Conference Board's index of consumer confidence, recent weeks have seen the public turn gloomier. In the University of Michigan's surveys, the change is more of a pause than a plunge. But post-recession mood swings in both surveys have not yet had much effect on consumer spending, which has grown fairly steadily.
Graph: "Confidence Shaken"
 Graphs track the Conference Board's index of consumer confidence; the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment; and consumer spending since the beginning of 1989. (Sources: Datastream, University of Michigan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD J C PENNEY CO INC (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



699 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Giving More Than Once to Neediest Cases Fund

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
In recent weeks, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has received scores of checks from contributors who were giving for a second time because they feared that the current campaign would fall short of its goal, forcing charities to turn away thousands of people.
They responded because they envisioned a New York City scarred by cutbacks in social services: fewer soup kitchens for the hungry, no medical care for some poor children and reduced job training for homeless men and women who desperately want to get off the streets. 
 They reacted to the news that the fund was hundreds of thousands of dollars behind last year's pace because they wanted to insure that people like Damien C. have a chance.
 
Multiple Physical Disabilities
 Damien, 21 years old, has multiple physical disabilities and is mentally retarded, but after receiving training from the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of seven charities aided by the fund, he now works in the packaging division at the Pfizer pharmaceuticals company in Brooklyn.
Damien is far less dependent on relatives and social service agencies now than he was before he began taking courses at the Brooklyn Bureau. "I have learned to take my job very seriously," he said the other day day as he stood near the assembly line wearing a white uniform, hair net, goggles and gloves.
In letters to the Neediest Cases Fund, donors write that their second checks symbolized their commitment to New York City and their belief that they must not forget those who are suffering, particularly during an economic slump that has thrown so many people out of work.
"Like many I felt saddened that the fund might not reach last year's total," wrote Irene E. Siotka of Manhattan, who gave $50. "I faithfully read the Neediest Cases column, and it is a daily reminder of how much I have both literally and figuratively."
 
'Second Extra Bonus Check'
 Caroline D. Janover of Ridgewood, N.J., also sent $50. "When I read that your fund-raising this year is behind the total for last year (and the need is so very great), I decided to send a second extra bonus check this year," she wrote. "I know you will spend it wisely."
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund helps thousands of people who are facing homelessness, unemployment, drug addiction and chronic illnesses. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to seven charities.
This year's campaign is down about $440,000 compared with last year's contributions at this point. But there is still time to give: the current appeal, which began on Nov. 29, ends on Sunday.
Gladys and Frank Parker of Larchmont, N.Y., gave $50 to the Neediest Cases.
"Although retired, I am grateful that my husband and I can meet our expenses," Mrs. Parker wrote. "We are aware that too many others are not so fortunate. Therefore, we are enclosing an additional contribution to help out with the shortfall. We hope other contributors will do the same."
 
Previously recorded . . . $4,226,820.21
Recorded yesterday . . . $86,751.17
 
Total . . . $4,313,571.38

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (82%); SERVICE ONE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FUNDRAISING (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); MENTAL RETARDATION (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



700 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Retailers with strong profits are rewarded with declining stocks.

BYLINE: By Stephanie Strom

 BODY:
THE market momentarily punished several retail stocks yesterday, despite strong fourth-quarter results and reports from merchants of good February business.
By the time the stock market had closed, the stocks had recovered some of their footing, although most ended the day with losses. Oddly enough, some companies that had difficult or lackluster fourth quarters, like the Kmart Corporation and Gap Inc., escaped the roller-coaster ride. 
 So far this year, retail stocks have dropped 5 percent, compared with a two-tenths of 1 percent drop in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Salomon Brothers.
Some analysts were puzzled by the continuing decline in the stocks of the stronger retailers. "There's no real good reason for what's happening," said Jeffrey M. Feiner, a Salomon analyst.
Yesterday's stampede out of retail shares seemed at first to be part of a general exodus from growth stocks. By midafternoon, Home Depot had fallen $4.75, a loss of 7.9 percent of its market value since reporting a 43.6 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings on Monday. But Home Depot rebounded to close at $59.50, down only 25 cents.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, reported fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded most analysts' estimates and it filed an income statement that was a textbook example of cost control. In the quarter, Wal-Mart's profits rose 24.4 percent, to $749.6 million, or 65 cents a share, from $602.4 million, or 52 cents a share, a year earlier.
Still, its stock dropped $2, to $58.75, after the announcement, even though many analysts say that discounters like Wal-Mart will fare better than other retailers under President Clinton's economic and fiscal proposals. By the close, Wal-Mart was back up to $59.875, down 75 cents for the day.
"I guess you could say that the Government budget proposals are going to raise corporate tax rates, raise the minimum wage and increase health-care costs, which would mean future cash flows would get hit," said William W. Whyte, who follows Wal-Mart for Stephens Inc. in Little Rock, Ark. "But since there's nothing definite on that yet, all the activity today is a little premature."
Yesterday's report that consumer confidence fell this month also took its toll on some retail stocks, although confidence levels have not precisely forecast spending recently.
The stocks of those retailers most sensitive to economic ups and downs were among those taking a pounding yesterday. May Department Stores Inc., the largest operator of department stores, announced its 18th consecutive year of record earnings. Fourth-quarter earnings rose 19.9 percent to $319 million, or $2.53 a share, from $266 million, or $2.12 a share, a year earlier. Nonetheless, its shares tumbled $2.75, to $67.75, before closing at $68.625.
"They've closed a number of their poorer-performing stores, which should be a big plus to their comparable-store sales over the next several months no matter what happens to the economy," said Kim Walin, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "The way I look at today, it's a great buying opportunity for investors interested in this industry."
She noted that shoppers have for three years been paring their debt, which should restore some of their spending power.
Analysts did fully understand why there was a selloff in Nordstrom Inc. The company told them on Monday night that their estimates for 1993 were too high and that February sales were below expectations. The market took the company at its word and drove the stock down about 16 percent, or $5.75, to close at $32.875.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (85%); GPS (NYSE) (83%); M (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); GAP INC (83%); KMART CORP (72%); STEPHENS INC (63%); MACY'S INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS RETAILERS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BONDS (75%); BUDGETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (62%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (62%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (62%); TAX INCREASES (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



701 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long Bond Surges On; Yield 6.82%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices continued their surge yesterday, pushing yields down across the board and leaving many traders marveling at the lowest interest rates they have seen in their careers.
The rally is also giving the Clinton Administration more help than it could have expected, because a sustained decline in long-term interest rates is crucial for the success of the President's economic program. Lower rates will both stimulate business investment and lessen the debt burden on companies and individuals. 
 The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 6.82 percent, only its second day below 7 percent since the Treasury began regularly issuing 30-year bonds in 1977. At the same time, the yield on the 10-year note fell below 6 percent, to 5.89 percent, the lowest level since January 1972.
 
Unfamiliar Territory
 "Most traders on Wall Street have never seen these levels before," said Stephen C. Leslie, a 40-year-old trader at M. R. Beal & Company who has been in the business for 15 years.
There are several explanations for the rally, which began in earnest after President Clinton introduced his economic plan last week and has pulled down the yield on the 30-year bond from 7 percent last Friday.
Yet at the heart of the buying seems to be a touch of perversity in the bond market , where bad economic news can be good.
For example, the Treasury market received its first lift yesterday morning, when the Conference Board reported that consumer confidence had declined sharply in early February. The report helped push stocks lower. [Page D8.]
Mr. Clinton's plan could aid the bond market even if does not reduce the deficit as much as he would like.
On the one hand, cutting the deficit is good for traders and investors. In the long term, it means the Government will borrow less, which would make existing bonds and notes a little more valuable.
On the other hand, economists and traders are betting that the proposed tax increases in Mr. Clinton's plan will be a drag on the economy even if the spending cuts are not approved and the deficit reduction is less than hoped.
With the economy growing only moderately, there is little risk that inflation, which is hovering about 3 percent a year, will accelerate, which is the bond markets worse fear. So what may be unhappy economic news for Mr. Clinton is good for bonds.
 
No-Lose Situation
 "Heads you win, tails you win," said David L. Murphy, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments in Boston. "If you get the program in place, and there is serious budget deficit reduction, that is positive. And even if you don't get serious deficit reduction, the tax increases will slow the economy and that will be good for the bond market."
Another reason for the recent surge, traders said, is that many portfolio managers who own securities backed by home mortgage payments are selling them and buying Treasury bonds and notes. The recent drop in interest rates has set off a new wave of mortgage refinancings, which means that these securities will be paid off much sooner than expected. The quickest way for investors to protect the value of their portfolios is to buy Treasury bonds and notes, which cannot be paid off early.
Mr. Clinton and other government officials contributed to the bond buying spree. Lloyd Bentsen, the Secretary of the Treasury, and Mr. Clinton helped by saying that they wanted more spending cuts in their economic plan. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, helped by indicating that it is too early to say that the economic recovery is secure.
 
A Note of Caution
 Upon entering unfamiliar territory on interest rates, some bond traders were becoming cautious in their buying. But they seemed to be overrun by investors who have cash and who missed the beginning of the rally.
"You have to be concerned when you have such a move," said Mr. Murphy of Fidelity. "It has the effect of bringing people into the market, and that has the effect of carrying you beyond where you ought to go."
The Treasury rally was slowed only briefly during the day. That hitch came after the results were released of the Treasury auction of two-year notes. Because the bidding appeared weak, the prices of other Treasury securities slid somewhat. But then the run-up resumed.
The 3.94 percent yield at the auction was the lowest since the Treasury began regularly selling two-year notes in September 1974. By the end of the day the Treasury rally had pulled the yield down to 3.90 percent in the pre-auction, or when-issued market.
In late trading, the price of the 7.125 percent 30-year bond was up one point and 13/32 to 10327/32 . The yield of 6.82 percent was down from 6.93 percent Monday and from 7.47 percent on Jan. 12.
The price of the 10-year note was up one point and 8/32 . Its 5.89 percent yield was down from 6.06 percent the previous day.
 
Other Bonds

The corporate and tax-exempt municipal bond markets followed Treasury prices higher and yields lower yesterday, despite the sale of billions of dollars of new issues in both markets. A total of $3.4 billion in new municipal bonds were sold, while corporations moved $3.6 billion in new bonds. Municipal bond prices were up 5/8 to 3/4 point, while the yields on corporate securities kept close to the advances in the Treasury market.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 3.94%
Low Price . . . 99.876
Low Yield . . . 3.80%
Median Yield . . . 3.87%
Accepted at low price . . . 76%
Total applied for . . .$32,627,645
Accepted . . . $15,256,845
N.Y. applied for . . . $30,051,510
N.Y. accepted . . . $14,161,710
Noncompetitive . . . $751,000
Interest set at . . . 3 7/8%
 
The two-year notes mature Feb. 28, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tresury Yield Curve" compares current yields of selected Treasury securitieis, in percent, to those of one month-ago. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Techinical Data) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: M R BEAL & CO (69%); FMR CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUDGETS (79%); DEBT NOTES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



702 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A.T.& T. Signs Pact In China

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
In a deal that could be worth billions of dollars over the next several years, China agreed yesterday to discuss buying a wide range of equipment from A.T.& T., including switching and transmission systems, cellular telephones, and business phones and computer networks.
Formally, the agreement signed by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company yesterday with the State Planning Commission of China is merely a memorandum of understanding to study possible investments. 
 But Randall L. Tobias, vice chairman of A.T.& T., said a major project would be announced "within a matter of months because we're moving at warp speed."
 
Equipment Sales Limited
 The cold war, however, still looms over the deal. Cocom, the 17-nation Western trade organization that polices high-technology exports, limits the kind of telecommunications equipment that China can buy.
When A.T.& T. gets down to negotiating a specific deal on fiber-optic transmission lines, for example, it may find that it can supply only a line that carries 1,900 simultaneous conversations, a 10-year-old technology that A.T.& T. is about to phase out of production. Export to China of the more modern cable, for 8,000 conversations, is illegal.
Still, the agreement yesterday represents a significant advance for A.T.& T., which despite its $64 billion in revenue last year, has relatively little foreign sales except from its NCR computer subsidiary.
The world's most populous country would be the largest potential market for any company, but especially so for A.T.& T. The company's largest overseas market for phone equipment has been in Spain, one of the tiniest European markets for such sales.
For China, the agreement promises a major technological jump-start to an already fast-growing economy. A.T.& T. has also agreed to make computer-switching equipment and integrated circuits in China, combine corporate telephone systems and computer networks, and provide services like voice mail and toll-free "800" numbers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randall L. Tobias, right, vice chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company was in Beijing yesterday with Jiang Zemin, Secretary General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, who agreed to discuss the purchasing of equipment from A.T.& T. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) AT&T INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FIBER OPTICS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; TOBIAS, RANDALL L MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



703 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Business Sees a High Cost in Rising Yen

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 23

 BODY:
The last time cries of "endaka!" -- the term for the surging strength of the Japanese yen -- reverberated here in the mid-1980's, Japan's economy was booming and the United States was searching for a quick way to reduce its vast trade deficit with Tokyo. The monetary solution helped a little, but only temporarily.
Now Japan's trade surpluses are growing again, largely because the country's economic slowdown has squeezed the consumption of American goods here to a trickle. And once again, Japanese officials say they are hoping that a powerful yen will buy them brief political peace in Washington by lowering the trade deficit and with it the pressure for protectionism. 
 This time, however, a surging yen may have an enormous cost. All day today, Japanese business leaders barraged the Government with warnings that the yen's extraordinary run-up in recent days would result in new rounds of layoffs and bankruptcies and would make a bad economy worse.
 
 
Few Benefits From Strong Yen
 Few seem to believe that the main objective of strengthening the yen -- reducing Japan's trade surpluses by making Japanese goods more expensive in America -- will be accomplished. The 6 percent increase in the value of the yen over the last two weeks, they say, will at best knock a few billion dollars off Japan's $47 billion trade surplus with the United States, maybe a bit more if the yen strengthens more in coming days. It closed today in Japanese trading at 116.78 to the dollar, the lowest the dollar has been since exchange rates were established after World War II. Later, in New York trading, the dollar recovered to 117.05 yen.
"The critical issue is what it will do to the Japanese economy," said Minoru Makihara, president of the Mitsubishi Corporation, the company at the pinnacle of Japan's largest industrial group. "I'm afraid that there may not be much of a political benefit, and it will cause a lot of pain."
Japanese executives, however, said today that if the strong yen did cut into foreign sales, it might force the Government of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa to adopt a large-scale plan to stimulate the economy, a move he had been resisting.
Mr. Miyazawa conceded today that some emergency measures would have to be taken -- something that business leaders had been saying for months -- but he had yet to come up with a plan. Executives who usually shy away from criticizing the Government are calling reporters these days to blame Mr. Miyazawa for failing to articulate an economic strategy and for reacting to economic events rather than shaping them.
 Meanwhile, the costs of Japan's economic slump are rising: Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, the country's communications giant, said today that it would reduce its workforce by 30,000 employees in the next four years, including the early retirement of workers between the ages of 45 and 55. That would reduce NTT's work force to about 200,000.
In an interview recently, Japan's Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, estimated that up to one million Japanese workers were seriously underemployed even though they had not been dismissed by their companies.
Under such conditions, company officials said, the 6 percent increase in the value of the yen could strike a major blow by making the export of many products unprofitable.
"We are at the point where the more we export, the more we lose money," a senior officer of Hitachi , the electronics giant, said today. "A few years ago, the answer to that problem was to build a factory in America. But now no one wants to spend the money to build factories."
This time, the fallout from the greatly strengthened yen, if it lasts, will likely be very different from the last onset of endaka.
 
 
Yen Fueled 1980's Boom
 In 1985, when 240 yen bought $1, monetary officials, gathering at the Plaza Hotel in New York, decided that a rapid strengthening of the yen was the only quick way to restore American competitiveness. Instead, the yen nearly doubled by 1988, to around 125 yen to the dollar, and the result was improved Japanese competitiveness and vastly increased Japanese political power.
Almost overnight, the appreciation of the yen made it far cheaper for cash-rich Japanese companies to buy American rivals or snap up real estate and technology. Japan quickly became the dominant economic power in Asia, building factories in Thailand and Malaysia, where wages were lower, and gaining enormous political clout there as well. Japan also surpassed the United States to became the largest donor of foreign aid, measured in dollar terms. Most important, the strengthening of the yen forced Japanese manufacturers to become far more efficient as they invested huge sums in new plants and equipment.
 
 
Cheaper Imports
 But this time, no one expects the Japanese to go on a buying spree with their record-strong currency. And cheaper imports are not likely to impress many consumers here.
"In a recession like this, Japanese are not going to import more just because foreign goods are a little cheaper," Takashi Miura, the chairman of the board of Tokyo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd., a leading shipping company, said today.
Many economists noted that during the mid-1980's, Japanese companies also cried doom about the rising yen. At that time, however, the Japanese and American governments seemed far better coordinated in dealing with the currency markets. In contrast, the most recent rise was sparked on Friday by an apparently offhand comment by the United States Treasury Secretary, Lloyd Bentsen, that he favors a stronger yen.
For the Clinton Administration, the sudden appreciation of the yen presents a stark choice: whether to try to manage the trade deficit by managing the dollar or by pressing the Japanese to open more of their markets to foreigners. For four years, the Bush Administration wavered on that point, using macroeconomic monetary tactics sometimes and pushing to open the Japanese market at other times. So far, the Clinton Administration has said very little about how it would mix the two approaches.


GRAPHIC: Theoretically, the dollar's long-term slide against the Japanese yen should have spurred now-cheaper American exports to Japan and deterred now-pricier Japanese exports to the United States. The actual trade figures show that exchange rates are not the only factor determining patterns of trade between the United States and Japan, and further weakening of the dollar may have little effect.
Graph: "Currencies and Trade: Not So Simple"
 Graphs track yen to the dollar and trade gap with Japan since the beginning of 1984. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MBC (LSE) (64%); 8058 (TSE) (64%); NTT (NYSE) (50%); NPN (LSE) (50%); 9432 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (64%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI CORP (64%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FORECASTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BANKRUPTCIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR JAPANESE YEN (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (PRIME MIN) KIICHI MIYAZAWA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



704 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Stays Under Pressure But Manages a Mixed Close

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed in hectic trading on world currency markets yesterday and remained under pressure from tumbling yields in the bond market.
Gold prices were mixed. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $331.10 a troy ounce, up $2.90 from Monday. The Republic National Bank said gold added $2.65 an ounce, to a late bid price of $330.50. 
 The dollar managed to rally off its lows but was restrained from posting further gains as bond prices soared for the second day and a Conference Board report showed consumer confidence in the economy tumbled in February.
"That report helped bring the dollar a bit lower," said John McCarthy, foreign exchange manager at the ABN AMRO Bank.
 
Spotlight Off Yen
 Investors spent much of the session focusing on the European currencies, he noted, taking the spotlight off the Japanese yen, which has surged in recent days.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 116.78 yen, down 0.07 yen from Monday's close and the lowest closing there since modern exchange rates were established after World War II.
Later in London, the dollar was quoted at a lower rate of 116.65 yen. But in New York, the dollar recovered to 117.05 yen, up from 116.36 yen on Monday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.4585, from $1.4540 late Monday. In New York it cost $1.4530 to buy one pound, less expensive than Monday's $1.4580.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Monday's late rates, included: 1.6230 German marks, down from 1.6233; 1.4975 Swiss francs, up from 1.4860; 5.5100 French francs, up from 5.5060; 1,583.25 Italian lire, up from 1,566.60, and 1.2533 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2593.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $329.60 a troy ounce, from $330.00 bid late Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (84%); AAR (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: ABN AMRO BANK NV (70%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (94%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



705 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Profits for Unilever

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Unilever, the British-Dutch food and detergents giant, said today that its pretax profits jumped past 2 billion last year for the first time.
Strong growth in North America, Latin America and Southeast Asia helped make up for difficulties in Europe, the company said. 
 "Economic recovery proved to be an illusion in many of our markets, and 1992 was the third year in succession to be affected by recession," Unilever's chairman, Michael Perry, said. He held out little hope for a speedy economic turnaround in Britain and said the downturn in Germany had proved much sharper than expected, bringing a drop in profits.
But in North America, Mr. Perry said, the group was more optimistic about the future of the United States economy than it had been for some time. Sales revenue from this region rose by 3 percent, profits surged and margins increased.
The group's overall pretax profit rose 13.4 percent, to 2.03 billion ($2.96 billion), from 1.79 billion a year earlier, mainly from gains in consumer food like ice cream and a recovery in personal-care products.
Sales increased 6.6 percent, to 24.7 billion ($35.97 billion), compared with 23.16 billion the previous year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (90%); UNA (BIT) (90%); UNA (AMS) (90%); UN (NYSE) (90%); ULVR (LSE) (90%); UL (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (90%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: UNILEVER NV AND UNILIVER PLC UNILEVER PLC/NV (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNILEVER NV AND UNILIVER PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL W PERRY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



706 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 2769 words

HEADLINE: No Roast Aardvark, No Grilled Zebra, Still, Queens Has an Alphabet Soup

BYLINE: By ELAINE LOUIE

 BODY:
IN Queens, the most ethnically diverse borough in New York, taste buds cannot be jaded. Indians bake breads until they puff into golden clouds, and Chinese serve up steamed dumplings that burst open with broth on first bite. Jewish delicatessens cure beef or pastrami with black peppercorns and garlic, and Koreans grill prime beef after marinating it in the Oriental trinity of seasonings: soy sauce, sesame oil and sugar.
The food of Queens, from American seafood to zucchini fritti, offers an A-to-Z primer to the 1,951,590 people from 178 ethnic groups who live in Queens, according to Census figures and Mayor David N. Dinkins's office. 
 "If there are 178 groups in the city, that's what is in Queens," said Frank Vardy, a demographer for the Department of City Planning and a co-author of "The Newest New Yorkers: A Look at Immigration," published by the department last year. From 1982 to 1989, immigrants to the Elmhurst section of Queens alone came from 112 different countries, Mr. Vardy said.
It's the middle-class dream that draws people to Queens. "One- or two-family houses, sandbox, garage, driveway -- or fairly spacious apartments," Mr. Vardy said.
Jacqueline Newman, a professor and coordinator of the graduate program in home economics at Queens College in Flushing, says ethnic diversity in Queens has soared since the 1960's, when immigration laws were relaxed. "It's like a stone rolling down a hill, gathering moss," she said. "They take in relatives and friends until they get on their feet; they find apartments for each other, and their mobility is in the area where they've been taken in." And with the people come the food of home, whether home was Port-au-Prince, Madras or Seoul.
Although a Chinese may live next door to a Haitian, an Indian in the same building as a Vietnamese, some neighborhoods, residential and commercial, are distinctly ethnic. Greeks populate Astoria. Indians live all over the borough but have transformed 74th Street in Jackson Heights into a shopper's Little India, bustling with 82 stores selling saris and gold bracelets, poori and tandoors. Koreans and Chinese have restaurants all over the borough, but they each staked out their main turf on Main Street in Flushing, turning it into a Little Korea and a Little Chinatown.
Eating in Queens is largely a homey, casual affair. Three generations are found at every kind of restaurant, where waiters and waitresses actually seem happy to see children. Perhaps sensing this, children eat quietly, talk in normal voices and do not scream or fidget. For the most part, these restaurants do not require reservations, and there are no dress codes. Jeans and a sweatshirt will do.
Throughout the borough, delectable foods are served in places humble or elegant. Alphabetically, here are 26 dishes from 15 Queens restaurants:
American Seafood. In 1962, when Leonard Barnes, a Cockney, opened LONDON LENNIE'S in Rego Park, he dazzled his wife, Joan, with scallops, tiny Nantucket bay scallops. "I never knew that scallops could be so sweet," Mrs. Barnes recalled. "With a bit of lemon juice, a bit of butter and broiled, I thought I was eating sugar." Today, the specialty at Lennie's is simple, perfectly cooked, fresh seafood. Lennie is deceased, and the Barneses' son, Les, carries on, serving the scallops dipped in flour, swiftly sauteed and served with a wedge of lemon on the side ($17.95). The flavor? Startlingly sweet.
Bulgoki. At DAE DONG, a spacious Korean restaurant in Sunnyside where each wood table is equipped with a grill, the sweet meat from prime rib is sliced paper thin, marinated in soy sauce mixed with sugar, scallions, garlic, sesame oil and sherry, and then grilled to produce bulgoki, a Dae Dong speciality. Each piece is wrapped in a lettuce leaf, the hot meat contrasting with the cold, crisp lettuce ($12.95).
Chicken and Coconut Milk Soup. From Thailand, this addictive soup has bits of poached chicken adrift in a broth made from coconut milk, lemon grass, coriander and chilies ($7.25). The soup is hot and sour, its texture creamy yet thin. JAI-YA, a Thai restaurant in Elmhurst, has served the soup since 1978.
Dumplings. Of the many dumplings in the Chinese dim sum repertory, soup dumplings are among the most esoteric and delicious. As the dumpling is folded by hand, broth in gelatin form is tucked in along with pork, shrimp or crabmeat filling. As the dumpling is steamed, the gelatin melts. Bite into the dumpling and it explodes with liquid. The dumplings have no shelf life, cannot be frozen and are therefore hard to find. The NEW FLUSHING SEAFOOD SHANGHAI CUISINE in Flushing serves two varieties: Shanghai steamed buns filled with ground pork ($3.95) and crabmeat steamed buns ($4.95).
Eggplant. Eggplant has a silky, meaty quality, and at LA PIAZZA, a northern Italian restaurant in Kew Garden Hills, it is sauteed with olive oil, garlic and parsley and drizzled with balsamic vinegar ($7.75). Dominick Domiani, the owner and chef, beamed as he watched his restaurant fill up late on a recent Saturday afternoon. He quoted his grandmother: "Cooking food is simply delicious, and eating food is deliciously simple."
Fish Cakes, Thai Style. The fried fish cake is a crunchy, slightly chewy, textural, spicy morsel. At Jai-Ya, meat from a fish that the waiter called "spotting fish from Bangkok" is minced, then mixed with curry paste, long beans and other spices, made into cakes about two inches round, fried and served with a sauce of chili, garlic, cucumbers and crushed peanuts ($7.95).
Guanabana. Guanabana is Spanish for soursop, a tropical fruit with a hint of vanilla flavor. At CALI VIEJO, a Colombian restaurant in Jackson Heights, the pulp of the fruit is turned into a celestial milkshake. Tossed into a blender with milk, sugar and ice, it is transformed into a frothy, creamy drink called, in Spanish, batido ($2).
Hong-a Hwe. Koreans marinate paper-thin slices of raw puff-fish in vinegar, then mix them with a sauce of red pepper, sesame oil, garlic and scallions to produce the dish called Hong-a Hwe ($9.95 at Dae Dong).
Innards. Some love innards, and some loathe them. At TAYGETOS, a Greek restaurant in Astoria, magaritsas is a creamy egg lemon soup with a slightly peppery zest, flecked with tiny minced bits of lamb kidney, liver and heart ($2.75). Depending on the diner's view, the innards (1) offend or (2) add texture and flavor to a classic soup.
Jewish Food. PASTRAMI KING in Kew Gardens offers a few of the classics of Eastern European Jewish food: pastrami, corned beef, dill pickles, rye bread. For 32 years, Pastrami King, an unprepossessing place with Formica tabletops, has been making what some devotees consider the best pastrami in New York City. Its alchemy takes 10 to 16 days. Meat from the beef neck and shoulder is soaked in brine for three to five days, then spread with a thick paste of half-cracked black peppercorns and fresh garlic and cured for another three to five days. Then it is spiced with yet more peppercorns and garlic and again cured for three to five days. Finally it is smoked over cedar sawdust for four to six hours. Once steamed, it's ready to eat. The pastrami is moist yet firm, flavorful and addictive. Eat one slice. Eat two. Gluttony lurks nearby ($5.95 a sandwich).
Kefalograviera. This slightly salty hard Greek cheese is best eaten fried. The white cheese is dipped in flour, then fried until it is crisp on the outside and meltingly chewy inside ($3.50 at Taygetos).
Lulo. This is what Colombians call the lime green orange -- an orange that when grown in the tropics keeps a green skin even though it's fully ripe. At Cali Viejo, the pulp of the lulo is made into a batido, a milkshake, and whipped until frothy ($2).
Maryland Crab Cakes. At London Lennie's, the fresh sweet meat from the blue crab claw is folded into a blend of mayonnaise, egg yolk, fresh parsley and a mix of perky spices called crab boil: paprika, peppers, onion, thyme and garlic. The cakes, three inches in diameter, are dipped in flour, sauteed until golden brown and served with an herb mayonnaise ($14.95).
Naeng Myon. In North Korea, people are so devoted to naeng myon -- cold rice vermicelli served in beef broth with shredded egg cake, paper-thin sliced beef and a drizzle of hot chili sauce, vinegar and sesame oil -- that they eat it even on the most frigid days. "They wrap themselves inside a warm blanket," said Jenny Kim, co-owner of Dae Dong, where customers can taste naeng myon without need of blanket. Each time someone orders the dish, someone in the kitchen presses the button on a noodle machine and out comes a handful of rice noodles that plunge directly into a pot of boiling water ($7.95).
Onion Kulcha. Kulcha, one of India's famous breads, is made of leavened flour and stuffed with cheese and herbs or vegetables like potatoes or onions. Onion kulcha prevails at JACKSON DINER, a restaurant in Jackson Heights whose name and decor (red-and-white-checked plastic tablecloths and pink walls) are eclectically American, but whose food and location are strictly Indian. The kulcha is stuffed with chopped onions, ginger and coriander, then baked until puffy ($2.50). A cup of tea is a natural accompaniment.
Pork Satay. Satays -- skewered grilled meats like pork, chicken and beef -- have become cliches of the American cocktail party. But the origin is Thai, and at Jai-Ya, the pork satay ($7.25) is especially delectable, no matter how often you may have had it. Cubes of pork are marinated overnight in curry powder, coconut milk, salt, pepper and sugar, then placed on the skewer and grilled until they have a light crust but are tender and juicy within. The dish is served with its usual accompaniment of a sauce made from curry paste, tamarind juice, sugar and peanut butter.
Quick-Fried Baby Shrimp With Pea Sprouts. When a Chinese cooks his shrimp quickly, he does it in a blindingly fast 30 seconds. At the New Flushing Seafood Shanghai Cuisine, this simple dish, which sounds so ordinary on the menu, can be extraordinary if the shrimp are fresh and pea sprouts are in season. Fresh shrimp have a silkier texture and sweeter flavor than frozen shrimp. When available (and do ask for them) the shrimp are sauteed in 30 seconds with ginger, garlic, salt and a splash of chicken broth. The tender sprouts of the pea plant get their own rapid-fire, 30-second treatment with a little salt, sugar and wine. The platter is served with the pale pink shrimp on one side, the jade green sprouts on the other ($13.95).
Rice and Beans. Any notion that rice and beans must be moist and saucy to be delicious is laid to rest at LA DETENTE, a Haitian restaurant in Elmhurst. On Sunday, the restaurant offers a brunch buffet to the accompaniment of a jazz trio or quartet and to the giggles of little children, the girls in party dresses, the boys in coats and ties, seated with doting parents and doting grandparents. On a table that runs the width of the room are chafing dishes of plantains, chicken creole, fried goat -- and rice and beans. The rice and beans are cooked together, and are served somewhat dry but deeply flavored with parsley, hot sauce, onions, salt and bell peppers ($4). During the week La Detente has table service, and food is ordered a la carte.
Soul Food. CARMICHAEL'S DINER AND COCKTAIL LOUNGE in Jamaica looks like an ordinary diner, with a bright orange interior, Formica-covered tables, paper napkins and a menu whose cover says it specializes in lobster, steaks and chops. But a peek inside Carmichael's menu discloses its unadvertised secret. Carmichael's specialty is soul food. Except for chitterlings, the staples are here: collard greens, grits and pork chops breaded, fried and served smothered in a brown gravy ($6.10).
Teriyaki Squid. Each chef has a closely held secret recipe. At ROBATA, a Japanese restaurant in Forest Hills, Kanae Shirakawa, the chef and owner, prides herself on her teriyaki sauce. She is 67, has cooked for 27 years and will say only that it is made of sugar, soy sauce and chicken broth, cooked for five hours. There is little she doesn't serve with the sauce: chicken, beef, pork, scallops, swordfish, lobster, tuna -- and squid. Cut into circles, the squid is cooked for a brief moment, so the flesh is tender. It arrives at the table piping hot, with each circle burnished by the glistening, mahogany-colored, piquant but mellow sauce ($10.95).
Uttapam. In southern India, uttapam is a crisp savory pancake. At the Jackson Diner, uttapam made from rice and lentil flours is poured onto a hot griddle, sprinkled with chopped onions, tomatoes and peas, and cooked until golden and crisp on both sides ($4.75).
Verde, Salsa. At O LAVRADOR, a Portuguese restaurant in Richmond Hill, salsa verde, a green sauce made of minced parsley, garlic and olive oil, envelops lobsters, shrimp, clams and mussels -- either separately or together. It is a classic sauce found also in Spanish cuisine. In O Lavrador's mariscada em salsa verde, all the seafoods are served in the green sauce, each species of shellfish tossed into the sauce at the appropriate moment so none overcooks ($14.95).
Wiener Schnitzel, Tyrolean-Style. Enter the TRIANGLE HOFBRAU, an 1864 Queen Anne-style wood and white stucco building in Richmond Hill with leaded glass windows and a gabled roof, and you are suddenly in a German beer hall, with wooden barrels and beer steins the decorative elements. Never mind that the men at the bar are imbibing; there is food. The owners, members of the Four family who emigrated from Alsace-Lorraine in 1914 and bought the restaurant in 1920, serve a perfect version of Tyrolean Wiener schnitzel, a breaded and fried thin veal cutlet served with melted cheese, sauteed sliced mushrooms and a brown gravy made from veal stock. The cutlet is delicate and tender, the crust crisp, the sauce rich and earthy, and an accompaniment of spatzle, tiny twists of egg dough, appropriately neutral ($18.95).
Xunta Maryayu. In a dialect of Spanish, xunta means mixture, so this soulful soup is a mix of sea (mar) and garlic (ayu, a variation of ajo). At DON PELAYO, a Spanish restaurant in Long Island City, the chef, Jose Javier Menendez, interprets the soup as a rich, redolent clam, garlic and bread soup. He sautes garlic and fresh croutons in olive oil, and then adds paprika, water and salt. The soup simmers for 20 minutes; the bread softens. Then come the clams and, at the very last moment as the shells spring open, a sprinkle of parsley and a drizzle of beaten egg, which as it cooks turns into pale yellow threads and clouds ($5.95).
Yellow Fish, Smoked. The yellow fish, named after the river in China that is its habitat, arrives frozen at New Flushing Seafood Shanghai Cuisine, where it is thawed and transformed into a classic Shanghai-style appetizer. The fish is fried in oil, then simmered for two hours in sugar, vinegar, soy sauce and other seasonings, and then, finally, smoked for 15 minutes over tea leaves and spices ($6.95).
Zucchini Fritti. The Italians fry zucchini as the French fry potatoes: in crisp, golden, slender strands. At La Piazza, the zucchini arrives hot, tucked into a basket lined with a white linen napkin, with wedges of lemon on the side ($4).
 
 
 
VARIETY SPOKEN HERE
 A RANGE of ethnic foods in Queens can be sampled at these restaurants:
CALI VIEJO 84-24 Roosevelt Avenue (84th Street), Jackson Heights (718) 898-9812.
CARMICHAEL'S DINER AND COCKTAIL LOUNGE 117-08 Guy R. Brewer Boulevard (Foch Boulevard), Jamaica (718) 723-6908.
DAE DONG 46-07 Queens Boulevard (46th Street), Sunnyside (718) 482-7100.
DON PELAYO 39-20 39th Place (Queens Boulevard), Long Island City (718) 784-4700.
JACKSON DINER 37-03 74th Street (37th Avenue), Jackson Heights (718) 672-1232.
JAI-YA 81-11 Broadway (81st Street), Elmhurst (718) 651-1330.
LA DETENTE 23-04 94th Street (23d Avenue), Elmhurst (718) 458-2172.
LA PIAZZA 73-27 Main Street (75th Avenue), Kew Garden Hills (718) 261-7462.
LONDON LENNIE'S 63-88 Woodhaven Boulevard (63d Drive), Rego Park (718) 894-8084.
NEW FLUSHING SEAFOOD SHANGHAI CUISINE 36-57 Main Street (37th Avenue), Flushing (718) 460-8989.
O LAVRADOR 138-40 101st Avenue (Sanders Place), Richmond Hill (718) 526-1526.
PASTRAMI KING 124-24 Queens Boulevard (82d Avenue), Kew Gardens (718) 263-1717.
ROBATA 111-16 Queens Boulevard, (75th Avenue), Forest Hills (718) 263-4110.
TAYGETOS 41-08 23d Avenue (41st Street), Astoria (718) 726-5195.
TRIANGLE HOFBRAU 117-13 Jamaica Avenue (118th Street), Richmond Hill (718) 849-1400.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diners at Taygetos, a Greek restaurant in Astoria, where magaritsas, a lemon soup with bits of lamb innards, is a specialty; Hong-a hwe, raw marinated puff-fish at Dae Dong; Pastrami on rye with dill pickles at Pastrami King in Kew Gardens. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. C6)
 
Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); HAITI (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEENS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); HAITI (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ETHNICITY (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MAYORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); RELIGION (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); BEEF (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CENSUS (56%); 

PERSON: LOUIE, ELAINE

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



707 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
A Stealth Industrial Policy It Makes Sense, If Done Cautiously

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
First there was the uncola. Then the non-bank. Now, courtesy of President Clinton, America has its first non-industrial policy.
Under a real industrial policy -- of the type scorned by three successive Republican Administrations -- the Government picks winners by subsidizing selected industries. But in announcing his own policy this week, Mr. Clinton never uttered the phrase "industrial policy," perhaps because he doesn't call for picking winners. He calls for picking high-wage, high-tech enterprise. There's a difference there somewhere. 
 It's easy to ridicule industrial policy. As conservatives never tire of repeating, private markets do usually know best. Investors betting with their own money will beat Government bureaucrats betting the taxpayers' money nearly every time -- especially when the Government bets at the behest of money-dispensing lobbyists.
But ridicule is too easy, too quick. There is a cautious case to be made for Government to pick up the slack in situations where the private market doesn't automatically know best. Caution is in order because the economic benefits are far from certain and the political pitfalls immense.
Mr. Clinton wants to underwrite the development of commercially useful technology. He seems to have in mind the birth of several outfits like Sematech, the Government-industry consortium that is often credited with reviving semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S. The idea is to put up small amounts of Federal money that would be matched by private investors in pursuit of risky innovation.
The idea makes good sense -- at least up to a point. Modern commercial success depends less and less on natural resources, like fertile soil, than on opportunistic research and commercialization of breakthrough technologies. But research on clean automobiles and next-generation computer software could be hugely expensive and risky.
Private investors might be reluctant to bear the risks if, as is often the case, the benefits of the research and eventual product development might slip away to competitors here or abroad. In such situations, targeted Government intervention might tip the calculations of private investors in the other direction.
The danger is political. Philosopher-kings sitting in an ivory tower might well target subsidies where they produce huge social benefits. But Washington is more likely to direct them to the politically powerful. Mr. Clinton's challenge is to design intervention to minimize the political risks.
What if Washington put a modest amount -- say a few billion dollars a year -- into a fund administered by a panel of experts? The fund would invite partnerships of businesses and universities to bid for grants to pay part of their research costs. The projects would be chosen on the basis of which would not be undertaken without the subsidy but have the potential of throwing off huge benefits to the economy at large.
Structured in this way, the policy would doubly protect taxpayers. The size of the fund would be limited. And silly projects would be weeded out by requiring that private investors put up most of the cost of each project. Without these safeguards, taxpayers should run for cover.
The idea of subsidizing commercial enterprise won't sit well with many Americans. Industrial policy, no matter how camouflaged under the mantle of high tech, can turn into a slippery slope in the hands of lobby-beholden legislators and officials.
Yet the policy is worth trying. The United States is rich. It can afford to gamble away a few billion each year in pursuit of a clean car or other commercial products that can change the lives of millions of Americans. The key is keeping the policy small. No matter how many safeguards Mr. Clinton thinks he can build into the system, there remains the real possibility that the politics will drive the policy to waste.
Mr. Clinton's non-industrial policy marks the second time in a week that he has spat in the eye of the Reagan legacy of non-activist government. First he called for raising taxes to pay for new spending on infrastructure, training and education. Now he calls for a policy that would have Washington pick winning technologies.
In both instances, the case for activism stands or falls on Washington's ability to make choices. Contrary to Reagan-Bush, the issue is not whether government investment and subsidies can make sense; of course they can -- in theory. The question is whether Mr. Clinton can figure out a way to drive the decisions toward the economically dynamic, not the politically wired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



708 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Let's Work With Clinton's Plan

BYLINE: By Herbert Stein; Herbert Stein, senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, was chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers under Richard Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. This is excerpted from an article to appear in the March-April 1993 issue of The American Enterprise.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Bill Clinton's economic program is probably the most far-reaching effort ever made by a President to control the Federal budget deficit. In light of the challenge and opportunity facing him and the country, it is disappointing.
Still, the plan is the only place we have to start, and it needs support. For those seriously concerned about the deficit, the responsibility now is not to defeat the plan but to try to strengthen and improve it. Here are some suggestions and observations. 
 * The deficit reduction proposed is much too small. Even by the Administration's own estimate the plan would leave a large deficit in 1997 and, more important, it would rise thereafter. The budget target for 1997 is arbitrary. It provides no basis on which to resist the inevitable temptations to try to scale back the deficit reductions.
The President's program would have been more defensible if its goal had been to reduce the deficit to zero, even if this had to be accomplished over a period of six or eight years.
* The program does not take advantage of reasonable options for substantially reducing the deficit. These include cutting the Federal subsidy for Medicare, limiting or eliminating the exclusion of fringe benefits from taxable income and cutting spending more sharply for the space station, supercollider and farm price supports.
The energy tax, chosen as the broad-based levy that most people would pay, could have been imposed at a higher rate without a severe burden on anyone.
* The proposed rate increase in the corporate profits tax, from 34 to 36 percent, only worsens the current "double taxation" inequity and would be an obstacle to the growth of investment that is one of the program's main goals. Profits are already taxed at the corporate level and at the individual level, in the form of dividends or capital gains.
* Applying a proposed tax to the use of energy by businesses would deter investment, because production that uses much capital also tends to use much energy. In addition, taxing energy used by business would drive energy-intensive production, like aluminum smelting, out of the country.
* The proposed investment credit for businesses would be highly discriminatory. It would reward businesses that invested little last year; that invest in physical capital rather than in research and training; that invest in short-lived assets, and that invest in equipment rather than structures. This is as likely to result in a loss of efficiency as it is in a gain.
* The Administration program is dotted with little give-aways, like tax breaks and soft loans for small business and supports for particular ventures such as high-speed trains. These give-aways, which would add up to tens of billions of dollars a year, would undermine a comprehensive effort to deal with the deficit.
Most of them could properly be described as investments -- which is how the President describes them. But many are unlikely to be as productive as the private investment that would result if the same amount of money were devoted to deficit reduction, which helps the overall economy. In general, the Administration's strategy shows an unjustified preference for government, or government-directed, investment over market-determined private investment.
* The selling of the program to the public relies heavily on the argument that the more progressive the tax system is, the fairer it is. That is not only a simple-minded view of fairness. It is also a dead end for budget policy. It means that when the economic limits of taxing the rich are reached there is no possibility of getting more revenue from the middle class, because that would reduce progressivity.
Despite these criticisms, the Clinton plan is the only deficit-reduction plan with a chance of being adopted. Some people, including leading Republicans, will say that they have an alternative plan to cut spending much more sharply than Mr. Clinton proposes to do.
But their plan is always described in general terms -- "across-the-board cuts," "a freeze on total spending" or some such formula -- never specifying what exactly is to be cut. The proponents of such "plans" have no more stomach than Mr. Clinton does for attacking the large middle-class benefits that are the essence of the budget problem.
This judgment may be too pessimistic. Some Republican leadership in Congress may arise to push strongly for significant specific cuts. If that happens, the President, given political cover by Republican support, may accept and possibly even welcome the reductions. In that case we could get a better program than the one the President has proposed.
But there is no sign of such a development and therefore little chance of getting a better deficit reduction package than Mr. Clinton's. Moreover, the President's package has every chance of being defeated. Elements of the program that save the most money will be vulnerable to opposition, because they are the most painful to the most people.
Advocates for the elderly will resist higher taxation of Social Security benefits. All kinds of users and suppliers will resist the energy tax. Unless some forces in the country and Congress are sufficiently concerned about the deficit to support the President's proposals -- however much they dislike other parts of the package -- the whole deficit-reducing effort could collapse.
If this effort fails we will probably not see another one for some time. The lesson will be that the system rejects even a cautious attempt by the President to exercise fiscal responsibility and to make a few tough decisions. And the public will once again see that no one really cares and that all the talk about the national interest in reducing the deficit is only a cover for the struggle of everyone to get his.
If the present effort succeeds, however, there will have been a demonstration of the willingness of Congress and the public to accept some sacrifice. Some budget untouchables will be seen to have been not so untouchable.
Discussion of the steps needed to reduce the deficit further can resume, one may hope, in a less demagogic and emotionally charged atmosphere than today. In that case we may yet say that 1993 was a turning point away from the disintegration of budget policy that has been going on for the past 25 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); MEDICARE (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); TRAINS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (61%); AGRICULTURE (51%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: STEIN, HERBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



709 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Time to Stop the Posturing Over Welfare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Caution on Welfare?" (news analysis, Feb. 3), about President Clinton's proposed welfare reform, is appropriately skeptical, but doesn't go far enough to unmask the posturing over this contentious issue. 
 Two important points about welfare -- Aid to Families with Dependent Children -- need to be made explicit in the debate: (1) We as taxpayers are unwilling to support legislation that may ultimately abandon single mothers with children. (2) Expenditures on A.F.D.C. represent a tiny part of Federal and state spending.
On the first point, the two-year limit in the new proposal misses the mark. Some political hay may be made in posing as an opponent of long-term welfare, but the problem is that such a policy does not deal with the inherent contradiction of welfare. We as taxpayers wish to provide some economic well-being for single mothers with children, yet we also believe in self-reliance and don't like dependence on government aid.
Recent trends underscore this argument. We have allowed the value of A.F.D.C. benefits to fall 43 percent over the last 20 years. We have tightened eligibility standards and required worker training. Yet even through the most conservative administrations, totally reeling in the safety net has never gained serious consideration. Americans, to our credit, are not going to let single mothers with children starve, even if they refuse or are unable to work.
As for welfare's costs, in recent years the Federal share of A.F.D.C. has accounted for less than 1 percent of Federal expenditures. The average state share has accounted for slightly more than 1 percent of state expenditures. Meanwhile, tax expenditures for interest on mortgage payments (a welfare program for the middle class and up) were close to four times that of Federal A.F.D.C. spending in 1991.
We must ask ourselves if a comparatively modest program like A.F.D.C. is a fire worthy of so much smoke. At best, welfare provides a poverty-level life style for single mothers and their children, the vast majority of whom use welfare episodically. Americans will not accept abandoning these vulnerable people. So let's stop the posturing.
 
JARED BERNSTEIN
Economist, Economic Policy Inst.
Washington, Feb. 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: F-D-C CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TRENDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERNSTEIN, JARED BILL CLINTON (73%); JARED BERNSTEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



710 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Incentive Plan Seeks to Save G.M. Plant

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN, N.Y., Feb. 23

 BODY:
In a long-shot effort to keep the huge car assembly plant here from closing, New York State officials are knitting together a multimillion-dollar package of inducements for the General Motors Corporation, including financing for the plant's retooling and the building of a companion parts-making plant an hour away.
The state is trying to avert the loss of 3,000 jobs and a $122 million payroll when G.M. closes the plant in 1995. The loss, wrenching for the local economy, would have repercussions statewide because of its effect on tax revenues. But executives at G.M. said they knew of no changes in the plan to close the plant. 
 Vincent Tese, the state's Economic Development Commissioner, said in an interview that he recently asked for a meeting in Detroit with John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s new chief executive officer, to discuss incentives that would cost about $100 million.
 
Cuomo Eager for Role
 Gov. Mario M. Cuomo would be eager to make the pitch personally to General Motors officials, Mr. Tese said.
"We would be willing to work with G.M. in a financial way to keep Tarrytown open," Mr. Tese said.
If General Motors refuses this carrot, Mr. Tese said, the state is considering the stick of suing the company for breaking promises to stay on that it made in return for tax abatements given the Tarrytown plant in 1985. A similar suit against General Motors brought by government officials in Ypsilanti, Mich., was successful two weeks ago in a county circuit court and is being appealed.
 
Two Letters
 Officials at General Motors said today that they had received two letters from Mr. Tese, but had not seen a firm detailed offer. Still, they seemed not to be moved by the new overtures.
"We have too many production facilities as it is," said William B. Winters, a spokesman for the automobile maker. "The plant is closing in 1995. I'm not aware of any rationale to keep that plant open."
Although New York's package has yet to be refined, Mr. Tese said it would include low-interest financing for the retooling of a plant that now manufactures 225,000 Chevrolet, Pontiac and Oldsmobile minivans whose sales have fallen short of the car maker's hopes. The revamping, whose cost has been estimated at $150 million by the state, would permit the company to turn out a newly designed generation of the minivans.
Mr. Tese said financing and free land could also be made available for the building of a new parts-stamping plant at Stewart Air Force Base in Newburgh, N.Y., which is used by the state's Air National Guard and is only an hour's truck ride away from Tarrytown. The absence of a nearby parts plant, Mr. Tese noted, was one of the reasons the Tarrytown plant was chosen for closing a year ago rather than comparable G.M. plants.
 
Cheap Electrical Power
 Other sweeteners, he said, would include tax abatements, cheap electrical power provided through the State Power Authority, money for road and other infrastructure improvements around the plant and training to improve the skills of the current work force.
Mr. Winters, the G.M. spokesman, said General Motors had already made plans to turn manufacturing of the minivan over to a plant in Doraville, Ga., and was deep into planning for the shutdown of the Tarrytown plant and the relocation of workers.
Tarrytown was a leading candidate for closing, he said, because it is General Motors' oldest plant. He also expressed doubt that the company would be interested in another parts-stamping plant since it already has too many.
"I think the die is cast," he said.
In response to the threat of a state lawsuit, a G.M. spokeswoman, Margaret G. Holmes, said G.M. felt it would win such a suit because, in return for abatements, it had promised to stay in Tarrytown only until 1995.
 
Change in Management
 The state's initiative comes on the heels of a major management change at General Motors. Robert C. Stempel, who announced plans to close Tarrytown and 11 other factories, resigned as chief executive officer last fall. He was replaced by Mr. Smith, who is under a mandate to close a total of 23 of the company's 136 plants in response to G.M.'s declining share of the automobile market.
Donald Martino, president of Local 664 of the United Automobile Workers in North Tarrytown, approached Mr. Smith earlier this month and urged him to talk to a 23-member state task force appointed to deal with the Tarrytown closing. Last Friday, Mr. Tese followed up by writing Mr. Smith to remind him that the state was still standing by an offer of substantial assistance made last June.
"As I am sure you understand," the letter said, "the planned closing of the North Tarrytown plant poses a serious economic setback for this community. Anything that can be done to prevent or to ameliorate the effects of this planned closing is worthy of investigation."
When interviewed, Mr. Tese acknowledged some frustration because G.M. officials have not let him know what it would take to make Tarrytown more cost-effective. He and other state officials, working with industry experts, have had to devise solutions to a problem whose dimensions are fuzzy.
 
'Whatever They Want'
 "We'll work with them on whatever they want," he said of G.M. officials. "We have no idea what they want. But we need to engage them."
One difficult problem that they know G.M. faces is that the fiber-glass slant-nosed minivans have not proved as popular as minivans made by competitors, and General Motors needs to redesign the styling and construction and build the minivans at a plant that can better handle metals, like the one in Georgia.
The potential Tarrytown offer would not be the first time that the state has assembled economic packages to lure the car business. Mr. Tese recalled that the state had put together inducments totaling $100 million to persuade General Motors to locate its Saturn operation in the state and that it had pieced together a similar $88 million package for Toyota. In both cases, New York lost out to other states.
This village of frame houses huddled on a slope overlooking the Hudson River is bracing for the devastation that would be wrought by the closing of the plant, which occupies a colossal white box of a building on a 96.5-acre site on the river's bank. The merchants along Beekman Avenue feed and quench the thirst of the plant's workers, and dozens of larger businesses in the area supply the G.M. plant. Seat cushions for the minivans, for example, are made in Suffern, about 15 miles away across the Tappan Zee Bridge.
General Motors pays the village $1.1 million in lieu of taxes, about 19 percent of the village's annual budget, and it pays the school district $1.8 million toward a $24 million budget.
"It would mean a lot of hardship," Frank J. Rey, the village's Mayor, said of the closing.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article Feb. 24 about the General Motors plant in North Tarrytown, N.Y., misstated an agreement about the company's obligations. According to a G.M. spokeswoman, Margaret G. Holmes, the company promised to make certain payments in lieu of taxes from 1985 to 1995. It was not required to stay in North Tarrytown until 1995.

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of North Tarrytown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NORTH TARRYTOWN (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS TORTS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); AIR FORCES (68%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH JOHN F SMITH JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993



711 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Mulroney Quits Post in Canada; Urges 'Renewal'

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Brian Mulroney, Canada's 18th Prime Minister, who solidified free trade with the United States but failed to reinforce unity between English- and French-speaking Canadians, announced today that he is retiring after eight and a half years in office.
The Canadian leader, who has been dogged by a weak economy, high unemployment and the lowest support in opinion polls for any Prime Minister in this century, said he was stepping down to make way for a leadership convention in mid-June and a rapid makeover of his Progressive Conservative party for elections this fall. 
 There was no indication that Mr. Mulroney had been forced out; in fact in recent weeks, the Conservatives have been rising in the polls, though they still trail the Liberal Party. Mr. Mulroney said in an interview that he had decided to resign because he had run out of enthusiasm for politics, and felt the mantle should be handed over to someone else.
 
Those in the Wings
 Among those seen as potential leaders of the party are a group of younger standouts who are likely to vie for power at the party convention.
They include Defense Minister Kim Campbell, 45, from Vancouver, British Columbia, who would be the first woman to head the party; Communications Minister Henry Perrin Beatty, 43, from Toronto, and Environment Minister Jean Charest, 35, from Sherbrooke, Quebec.
One of Mr. Mulroney's main achievements was the successful negotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement with the United States and Mexico. He said in interviews today that his departure would not affect ratification of the treaty, and pledged to get it through Parliament before the convention.
"Renewal is the very essence of democracy," the 53-year-old Prime Minister declared, saying two full terms in office were "just about the maximum length of time a political leader should serve as Prime Minister." Mr. Mulroney has had the fifth-longest term among Canada's Prime Ministers.
Mr. Mulroney, whose election victories in 1984 and 1988 produced the first back-to-back majorities for a Canadian leader in 35 years, will become the first elected Conservative chief to voluntarily turn over a Conservative Government to a successor.
His decision, announced to close friends last night at a dinner at 24 Sussex Drive, his offical residence, ended months of speculation about his future. He will serve as Prime Minister until the new leader is chosen and remain a member of the House of Commons until the elections.
 
A Very Busy Man
 The decision writes finis to a remarkable political career. Mr. Mulroney created a new Tory coalition of Quebec nationalists and western conservatives, and led Canada through wrenching economic change, not only lowering import barriers but also reforming the tax structure, deregulating energy, transporation and financial services, cutting the budget deficit and supporting the zero-inflation policy of the Bank of Canada.
The change was as radical as what President Clinton envisages for the United States. "I was exactly like Clinton 10 years ago," Mr. Mulroney said in an interview in his office in the House of Commons after the announcement. He had spoken with President Clinton earlier in the day, as well as with former Presidents George Bush and Ronald Reagan, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. "I approached my problems then with exactly the same enthusiasm as President Clinton is approaching his problems today."
But, he added, explaining some of the thinking behind today's decision: "I think that after 10 years you lose some of that enthusiasm, and you shouldn't. My enthusiasm didn't evaporate; I spent it in great causes for my country."
Yet so sharp are the divisions caused by some of his enthusiasms that his political opponents expressed little of the customary good will shown to departing national leaders.
 
Enough, Say Opponents
 "Two terms of Brian Mulroney has brought the country and the Conservative Party to their knees," said Sheila Copps, deputy leader of the Liberal Party. Audrey McLaughlin, leader of the New Democratic Party, said Mr. Mulroney was leaving a "devastating record for Canada."
Although some influential Conservatives have called on Mr. Mulroney to bow out, there was no indication that he was actually pushed.
Unlike the situation with Margaret Thatcher in Britain, who fell out of favor with her Conservative party and was replaced as Prime Minister by her protege John Major, Mr. Mulroney is handing over the reins at a time when Conservative fortunes in Canada appear on the rise.
The economy is recovering slowly, which has moved the party into second place in the polls, behind the Liberals. But it is a distant second: The latest Gallup poll showed the Liberals, led by Jean Chretien, at 49 percent and the Tories with only 21 percent.
Still, many in the party had privately regarded Mr. Mulroney, once the most positive Tory asset, as a burden. For many he personalized the low standings in the polls.
The Prime Minister said he had been considering resignation for two years, but had been delayed by the problems over English and French unity and other challenges.
 
A Question of Timing
 If he had waited longer, the party would not have had enough time to sell a new leader to the electorate in November; to have acted sooner would have been tacit admission that the rejection of a constitutional referendum last October was a rejection of him that needed redressing.
The change in leadership is unlikely to alter the Government's position on the North American Free Trade Agreement. Even though the accord is unpopular in Canada, the Government is expected to push ratification through Commons this spring -- and has the votes to do it.
Mr. Chretien, the Liberal leader, has been vague about his plans for the trade pact, but most analysts say he will not scrap it if he becomes Prime Minister. Mrs. McLaughlin, of the New Democrats, the third party, has been absolutely clear -- she would tear up the agreement.
The June convention promises to have many of the attributes of an American nominating convention. More than 8,000 party loyalists will attend, and Mr. Mulroney said he expected it to be "civilized." He declined to say whom he would support.
The last time the Tories elected a leader was in 1983, when they chose Mr. Mulroney over former Prime Minister Joe Clark. Less than a week ago Mr. Clark, who served as External Affairs Minister and most recently as Minister of Constitutional Affairs, announced his own retirement from politics.
 
Speaking in Two Tongues
 Mr. Mulroney's departure could weaken the Conservative party in Quebec and lead to further gains by the separatist Bloc Quebecois. He is a bilingual Quebecer, born in Baie Comeau, on the north shore of the St. Lawrence. His parents were Irish immigrants, his father an electrician in a lumber mill.
While many English-speaking Canadians expressed a visceral dislike of him, he was admired in Quebec, and it is unlikely a successor will be able to campaign as strongly in the province.
As Prime Minister Mr. Mulroney sought to bridge the rift between Quebec and the rest of the country by negotiating first the Meech Lake Accord and then the Charlottetown Accord, under which Quebec's distinctness would have been recognized in the Constitution. The collapse of these two agreements, the latter in the constitutional referendum in October, were among his greatest disappointments.
Mr. Mulroney said he had no specific plans for the future. Last year he weighed and then rejected the possibility of seeking to become Secretary General of the United Nations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Brian Mulroney yesterday in Ottawa. (Reuters) (pg. A1)
 
Chronology/Photo: "Lawyer and Politician"
1939 -- Born on March 20 in Baie Comeau, Quebec.
1972 -- Made a partner at Montreal's largest law firm, Howard, Cate, Ogilvy.
1976 -- Loses Progressive Conservative Party leadership race to Joe Clark.
1977 -- Appointed president of Iron Ore Company of Canada.
1983 -- Elected leader of the Progressive Conservative Party.
1984 -- Becomes Canada's Prime Minister after his party wins a record number of seats (211 of 282 members of Parliament).
1985 -- Begins negotiations with the Americans United States on free trade.
1988 -- Wins second majority mandate (169 of 295 seats).
1989 -- Signs a free trade agreement with United States.
1991 -- Signs an acid rain agreement with United States.
1992 -- The Charlottetown accords, under Quebec's distinctness would have been recognized in the Constitution, is voted down in a national referendum on Oct. 26.
1993 -- Announces on Feb. 24 that he is resigning as Tory leader and Prime Minister, with rating in public opinion polls in single digits in a country troubled by high unemployment and a three-year recession.
 
(Source: Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEXICO (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRIME MINISTERS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%); ENERGY REGULATION (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); TAX REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN); CAMPBELL, KIM (MIN); BEATTY, HENRY PERRIN (MIN); CHAREST, JEAN (MIN) ; MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BRIAN MULRONEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



712 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
HINDUS BARRED FROM PROTEST
More than 45,000 Hindus across India have been arrested as they tried to travel toward New Delhi in response to a call from the main Hindu political party to join a demonstration against the Government. A1
 
CANADIAN LEADER TO RESIGN
Brian Mulroney, Canada's 18th Prime Minister who solidified free trade with the United States but failed in efforts to reinforce unity between English and French-speaking Canadians, announced that he was retiring after eight-and-a-half years in office. A1 

VIOLENCE IN SOMALIA CAPITAL
After two months of uneasy calm, the Somali capital exploded in violence as thousands of partisans of a major warlord stormed the streets in Mogadishu, looting, burning tires, hurling rocks and menacing foreigners. A1
 
SEOUL'S FIRST CIVILIAN CHIEF
Kim Young Sam took the oath as South Korea's first nonmilitary President in more than three decades. He delivered a fiery inaugural address, accusing the generals who had preceded him of leading the country into a "dark political night" of corruption and economic malaise. A1
 
Britain and China are holding talks on the future of Hong Kong. A5
 
C.I.A. warned that North Korea may be hiding nuclear production. A7
 
RUSSIA'S NEW RETAILERS
The famous State Department Store on Moscow's Red Square, best known by its Russian acronym, GUM, became private more than two years ago. But now any Russian can get a piece of GUM, a covered mall that houses many shops, including branches of some well-known Western ones. A3
 
EUROPE WELCOMES U.S. AIRDROP
Even before President Clinton's announcement to airdrop relief supplies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Western European leaders welcomed it as a sign that the United States was joining in efforts to stop the Balkan fighting. A8
 
BRITON BACKS CLINTON PLAN
President Clinton received the backing of Prime Minister John Major of Britain for his proposed airdrop into Bosnia. But the two leaders clashed on another key issue: American complaints that the Europeans were unfairly subsidizing their civilian aircraft industry. A8
 
SERBS SHOW DEFIANCE IN BOSNIA
As the Clinton Administration considered the details of its airdrop, Serbian nationalist forces halted another U.N. convoy trying to deliver relief supplies to besieged Muslim towns in eastern Bosnia. A8
 
National A14-17, B7, D23
 
BRIGHTER PROSPECTS FOR RU486
In what may be the first step toward bringing the French abortion pill to the American market, the president of the company that makes it said should be introduced to the United States. A1
 
THE RACE TO REFINANCE
All across America, corporate managers, municipal officials and homeowners are trading in their old debt for new long-term loans whose rates have fallen to levels that most have never seen before. A1
 
NEW NUCLEAR STRATEGY
An American military command is building computer models that would enable the President to aim nuclear-armed missiles at third-world countries that threaten the nation's interests. B7
 
Aspin will reduce his workload and may need a pacemaker. B7
 
ADMINISTRATION FILLS OUT SLOWLY
Some Cabinet officers are frustrated by the White House's time-consuming efforts to add diversity and otherwise shape top Administration appointments. A16
 
The Clinton economic plan is drawing praise from the states. A16
 
Congressional Democrats predicted some haste on the budget. A16
 
Pediatric experts backed a universalvaccination program. B7
 
RULING ON DRUG FORFEITURES
The Supreme Court rebuffed the Government's assertion of sweeping power to confiscate property tainted in any way by an illegal drug transaction. A17
 
The Justices considered a rare kind of church-state issue. A17
 
FINDINGS ON A SUPERNOVA
Astronomers have found evidence that a star as bright as the full moon exploded into view 340,000 years ago and that its dazzling radiation could have damaged earth's ozone layer and sunburned man's Stone Age ancestors. D23
 
LEGACY OF THE WESTERN DROUGHT
The drought that punished the West for six years is over but has left a fundamentally changed policy landscape across the region. A14
 
BEATING TRIAL GOES FORWARD
Last-minute legal hurdles were cleared in the Federal trial of four police officers accused of violating Rodney G. King's civil rights. A15
 
For rescued skiers, a hero's welcome and also criticism. A14
 
A gain was reported in predicting quake-related ocean waves. D23
 
A European satellite can now monitor American weather. D23
 
Exercise extends the lives of middle-aged men, a study suggested. B7
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A SIGN OF THE RECESSION
The fund used to pay unemployment benefits in New York State will run out of money this week, and a Cuomo administration official has proposed a significant increase in business taxes to keep the system solvent. New York is the fifth state whose unemployment insurance fund has gone into the red since the start of the national downturn in 1990. A1
 
SHOOTING AT BRONX COURTHOUSE
A woman accompanying her husband to the Bronx County Building yesterday was shot and killed by a man in a camouflage jacket and a bulletproof vest. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the department was investigating whether the killing was linked to the killings of six people in a Bronx apartment on Feb. 14. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-13
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-24
 
Obituaries B8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Indecent disclosure.
Lifeline for Bosnia.
Home alone at Justice?
Mr. Mulroney steps down.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: The Bill & Boris show.
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Balkan strategy, part I.
 
Elie Wiesel: Shadows in the camps.
 
Richard Manning: Chainsaw logic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SOMALIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SOMALIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CORRUPTION (78%); ARRESTS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



713 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: New Momentum for the Race to Refinance

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
All across America, corporate managers, municipal officials and homeowners are scrambling to take advantage of the sharp decline in long-term interest rates to levels that most have never before seen. They are trading in their old debt for new, and in some cases are cutting their interest costs in half, a move that will save them money and give the economy a lift.
The race to refinance, under way for more than a year, gained new momentum in the last week as investors focused on the deficit-cutting plans in the economic program President Clinton presented to Congress. The rate on 30-year Treasury bonds, a commonly used yardstick, has plunged below 7 percent for the first time in 16 years. On Tuesday it hit 6.82 percent. Yesterday, the bonds finished the day at 6.88 percent.
 
Lower Rates 'Like Magic'
 "Declining interest rates over time are like magic," said Allen Sinai, the chief economist at the Boston Company. "They never fail eventually to revive a sick economy so long as inflation remains quiet." 
 He and other economists estimate that the lower rates will not only make the economy grow faster, but will be especially useful in lessening the drag on the economy from the higher taxes proposed in the Clinton economic plan.
The lineup of borrowers reaching for the lower-priced money ranges from companies like Time Warner and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation to governments like New York City and Massachusetts to homeowners and utilities.
The News Corporation, for example, owner of 20th Century Fox and a leading newspaper publisher worldwide, sold $500 million in new bonds on Tuesday at 7.5 percent, well below the rates of its existing debt. In the last eight weeks, the company has sold $2 billion in new corporate bonds.
Paying less for the money it borrows allows the News Corporation, like other companies, to raise its earnings and improve its balance sheet over time, opening the door to more investment and hiring.
"Every corporate chief financial officer ought to be looking at this," said Roberto C. Goizueta, chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company. He said that his company was considering refinancing some of its debt.
Cities, towns and utilities are doing the same in the tax-exempt municipal market, where interest rates are about a third lower than taxable market rates. Massachusetts, for example, on Tuesday sold $890 million of bonds. That will allow it to retire higher interest rate debt for a saving of $45 million over the next three years.
New York City is preparing to refinance some of its more costly borrowings in the next several months. "This will substantially improve the economics for us," said Darcy Bradbury, the Deputy Comptroller for Finance for the city.
The Intermountain Power Agency of Murray, Utah, just refinanced $670 million of its debt at lower rates, allowing it to pass along savings of $3.8 million a year to its customers in financially hard-hit Southern California. Savings on utility bills will allow customers to spend the money in other ways.
John Sager, the company's manager, said his colleagues were skeptical that rates would get low enough "to pull the trigger." But this week they did.
 
A Rage to Refinance
 Consumers are flocking to banks and mortgage brokers to lower their monthly mortgage payments.
The flood of consumers seeking less costly mortgages was evident yesterday morning at Countrywide Credit, a lender in Pasadena, Calif. The number of calls seeking to refinance mortgages jumped to 190 an hour, up from 150 just a week ago. And the 150 was three times the normal rate.
Many economists predict that the savings on mortgage payments will be one of the first sources of spending to foster growth this year.
But while economists are counting on lower rates to help revive the economy, not everyone is applauding. The sharp fall in short-term interest rates in recent years has already squeezed people on fixed incomes, mostly the elderly. Many of them had turned to longer-term investments to raise their incomes, since rates there had not fallen as much. The decline in longer-term rates now is reducing their alternatives.
Jeri Mellon, 68, a retired hospital administrator and former nurse, had previously kept $50,000, about half her savings, in a certificate of deposit paying 9.5 percent. When that matured in 1991, she put her savings in National Fund, a bond mutual fund that pays 12 percent, giving her a $300 monthly income.
"There's no way in the world I could survive on the 4 or 5 percent I'd be receiving," in the C.D., said Ms. Mellon, of Henderson, Nev. "It's deplorable what's happening to people who've worked hard all our lives, saved money and now have to practically live on welfare to survive."
For the economy as a whole, however, lower rates are clearly a plus. But economists worry that the gain from the drop in interest rates will still not totally offset the restraining impact of Mr. Clinton's plan to reduce the deficit. Mr. Sinai, for one, said the plan could knock as much as a half a percentage point a year off expected economic growth in the the mid-1990's.
For the decline in rates to have any sustained impact, rates have to remain low, and that depends in the short term on the President's success in getting his program approved.
But for now, the markets are optimistic, and rates have continued their downward march.
Their decline is already making a huge difference to the corporate community. Profits of banks have soared, as they borrow more cheaply but cut their own lending rates more slowly.
Corporate borrowers, who set a monthly record in January, are seeing their profits and internal cash flow rise as their debt payments fall. The extra profit margin is giving many more confidence in the economy and the ability to invest.
For the News Corporation, like other companies, the lower-cost debt has led to an improved credit rating, which should further reduce their borrowing costs in the future.
 
Time Warner's Savings
 Time Warner has saved about $200 million a year with the $3.5 billion it has borrowed at low interest rates since December, according to a spokesman, Edward Adler.
Ms. Bradbury of New York City said the city would have to pay only 6 percent now on long-term city bonds, down from more than 7 percent that it paid nine months ago, and lower than the rates assumed in the city's budget. But she said the city would probably hold off on refinancings for at least a few months because it has a regularly scheduled borrowing in the next few weeks. But she is not worried about losing the chance to refinance other debt. "We feel relatively confident that this level of interest rates will last for several months," she said

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Long-Term Rates" tracks weekly yields on 30-year Treasury bonds and 30-year fixed-rate residential mortgages since the fourth quarter of 1991. (Sources: Datastream; Bank Rate Monitor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); KO (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); BOSTON CO INC (69%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); COCA-COLA CO (63%); INTERMOUNTAIN POWER AGENCY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CORPORATE BONDS; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING; MORTGAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); PUBLISHING (69%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (67%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



714 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: New York Unemployment Fund About to Run Out

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 24

 BODY:
The fund used to pay unemployment benefits in New York State will run out of money this week, and a Cuomo administration official today proposed a significant increase in business taxes to keep the system solvent.
New York is the fifth state whose unemployment insurance fund has gone into the red since the start of the national downturn in 1990. 
 The state will have to borrow $400 million from the Federal Government this year at an interest rate of 7.5 percent to continue paying benefits to New Yorkers who have lost their jobs, State Labor Commissioner John F. Hudacs said today. Mr. Hudacs stressed that recipients of unemployment benefits -- there are 290,000 people currently receiving regular benefits and 160,000 receiving extended benefits -- will not be hurt by the shortfall.
 
Employer's Tax Would Rise
 But in order to pay back the Federal loans and replenish the state fund to avoid further borrowing, Mr. Hudacs proposed raising the unemployment insurance taxes paid by businesses.
The new taxes would raise an additional $500 million in 1994, above the $1.6 billion employers in New York paid in 1992 in unemployment insurance taxes. The taxes are paid as a percentage of a company's payroll, varying according to a company's record of layoffs.
Under Mr. Hudacs's proposal, the unemployment insurance taxes paid by employers, which currently averages $316 a worker, would rise to an average of $399 in 1994, $450 in 1995 and $528 in 1996. The increases would be larger for companies with histories of heavy layoffs, meaning that seasonal industries like apparel, construction, tourism and canning would be particularly hard hit.
The tax increase requires the approval of the Legislature, and was greeted with considerable skepticism today in the Republican-controlled State Senate.
Even Mr. Hudacs's boss, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, has not formally endorsed the bill, leading some legislative aides to suggest that the Governor had allowed his surrogate to float a trial balloon while keeping some personal distance. Mr. Cuomo has vowed to oppose any broad-based tax increases this year.
Business leaders, who have considerable influence in the Senate, complained that the tax increase would ultimately be self-defeating, because it would cause companies to retrench and lay off more workers, which in turn would require the state to pay more in unemployment benefits.
"The best way to deal with the unemployment compensation problem is to deal with the unemployment problem," said Robert J. Bellafiore, director of communications for the Business Council of New York State. "And you can't make it easier to provide a job by making it more expensive to provide a job."
The insolvency of the unemployment insurance trust fund is just the latest sign that the national economic recovery, which is accelerating in other states, is moving at a very slow pace in New York.
The state's unemployment rate, which averaged 8.5 percent for 1992, rose to 9.3 percent last month, the highest rate during the economic downturn that economists say began in 1990; the recession officially ended in 1991. By comparison, the national unemployment rate was 7.4 percent for 1992 and 7.1 percent for January. Unemployment in New York City, which has 37 percent of the state's jobs, was 13.4 percent in January, a city record.
 
Something Missing in Upturn
 "This is a recovery without job creation," Mr. Hudacs said today.
When New York's unemployment insurance trust fund officially goes into the red, New York will join the funds of Connecticut, Massachusetts, Missouri, Michigan and the District of Columbia in the ranks of insolvency. Maine's fund is also expected to go broke this year.
State officials were not sure exactly which day the fund would be depleted. The fund, which held more than $3.4 billion at the end of 1988 had fallen to about $600,000 this morning. The state has been paying between $6 million and $11 million a day in unemployment benefits.
The erosion of the fund resulted from both an increase in the number of jobless New Yorkers and a decrease in their employers' payrolls -- and thus the tax base. The net result was that in 1991 and 1992, the state paid about $1.80 in unemployment benefits for every dollar in unemployment insurance taxes it collected.
 
Only Employers Pay
 The only other time New York's fund was depleted was in 1977, when the state had to borrow $336 million.
A 1935 Federal law established an unemployment insurance trust fund in every state. The fund is supported solely by employer taxes, with the rates varying from state to state as determined by the legislature.
New York's tax, which consists of three parts, currently ranges from a low of 2.5 percent to a high of 7 percent on the first $7,000 in wages paid to each employee. New York is one of 14 states that apply the tax only to the first $7,000 in wages, the lowest amount allowed by Federal law.
Employees who have worked in the state at least 20 of the last 52 weeks, who have been receiving at least $80 in average weekly wages and who lose their jobs by no fault of their own can qualify for unemployment benefits. They can receive about 50 percent of their wages, up to $300 a week in benefits, for a maximum of 26 weeks.
 
Bush Agreed to Rise
 Starting in 1991, Congress and President George Bush agreed to extend the benefits past 26 weeks, with the Federal Government raising money through employer taxes to pay for the extension. In New York, recipients can qualify for 20 weeks of extended Federal benefits, and the Clinton Administration is considering extending them even longer.
Mr. Hudacs's tax proposal would raise costs for employers in several ways. He would raise the taxable wage base to $8,500 from $7,000 in 1994, to 10,000 in 1995 and to $12,000 in 1996. He also would raise rates for two of the three components of the tax and would make the overall rate more reflective of a company's history of layoffs.
Mr. Hudacs warned that without such a plan, the state would have to "continue to borrow ad infinitum." And if another recession hits before the fund is replenished, he said, the state will face a severe problem.
 
U.S. Can Impose Tax
 If the state does not repay the loans on schedule, the Federal Government can impose business taxes of its own, to cover the interest as early as this fall and additional taxes to cover the principal in 1995.
But some business leaders and legislators suggested it would be less burdensome for businesses to pay the Federally imposed taxes than those recommended by Mr. Hudacs.
Senator James J. Lack, a Republican from East Northport, L.I., and the chairman of the Labor Committee, questioned whether the state needed to build the reserves in its unemployment insurance fund back up to pre-recession levels and whether it was wise to increase business taxes while the state is losing jobs.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Unemployment Insurance: Facing Bankruptcy in New York"
 Rising unemployment and the effects of the recession have depleted New York State's Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund. Graphs track the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund and the state's unemployment rate since 1982. (Source: New York State Department of Labor) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; TAXATION; CORPORATIONS UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); HUDACS, JOHN F (COMR)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



715 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Cars Get British Accents

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BURNASTON, England

 BODY:
The Japanese auto makers, having entrenched themselves in the United States, are turning to what is perhaps the world's most hotly contested and most promising market: Europe.
Following the same basic strategy that helped push their share of the United States market to 30 percent from 20 percent during the last decade, Toyota, Nissan and Honda are starting to produce cars in large numbers in Europe. They are building efficient new plants in British towns like this one in the English Midlands, home to a $1 billion Toyota factory that opened in December. The goal, as it was in the United States, is to sidestep "voluntary" quotas that limit their exports from Japan. 
 As in the United States, their plants set standards for productivity and quality. They are also forcing rivals like Volkswagen, Peugeot, Renault, Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Fiat, as well as General Motors and Ford, to shape up or risk withering away.
 
Setting a New Standard
 "The presence of the Japanese provides an entirely new benchmark for manufacturing in Europe," said Daniel T. Jones, a professor of motor industry management at the Cardiff Business School at the University of Wales.
Despite a deep slump in car sales in Europe that is expected to persist this year, forcing cutbacks and layoffs among the European companies, the Japanese auto makers are banking on a rebound starting next year.
Most forecasters predict that the European market will grow 2.5 percent a year or more for the rest of the decade, faster than in Japan or in the United States. The manufacturers also see long-term growth coming from the formerly Communist nations of Central and Eastern Europe.
In addition to its car plant here, Toyota opened an engine factory in Wales in September. Honda started producing cars in Swindon, in western England, in October, and owns 20 percent of Rover, the British auto maker. Nissan has had a plant in Sunderland, in northern England, for six years and is trying to more than double production there by next year. In its slumping home market, by contrast, Nissan has announced plans to shut down what was once its flagship Japanese factory.
 
 
Room to Grow
 Of the 13.2 million cars sold in Europe last year, about 11 percent, or 1.45 million, were Japanese, all but several hundred thousand of them imported from Japan. By the middle of the decade, the Japanese plants in Britain will have the capacity to make at least 600,000 cars a year. These Japanese "transplants" plan to export 70 percent or more of their production to Continental Europe.
"From Europe, the view is that the U.K. is the aircraft carrier from which the Japanese can attack the Continent," Mr. Jones said.
Some analysts think Japanese production in Britain will ultimately go even higher, perhaps to one million sometime after the turn of the century, giving the Japanese potential sales of two million units or more even if they do not increase exports from Japan when the quotas expire in 1999. The European Community has pledged that by 1999 its automobile market will be fully open to foreign competition. The quota, which is renegotiated each year, was around 1.2 million last year, and will probably be lower this year to reflect the downturn in the overall market.
Cars made in Britain are not counted in the quota, but there are lingering questions about how a big rise in sales would be received in France and Italy, which have long had strict protectionist policies on autos.
 "The Japanese have invested a lot of money in the U.K., and they did so in an atmosphere of restraint regarding exports from Japan to Europe," said Karl E. Ludvigsen, a former executive of the Ford Motor Company who now runs Euromotor Reports Ltd., a consulting firm in London. "They felt that the restraints would continue for some time and if they wanted to get the most from the European market they would have to produce here."
European auto makers are worried not just by the potential scale of the Japanese plants in Britain, but by their efficiency and the ensuing flexibility that Toyota, Nissan and Honda can gain in pricing. Having built their factories from the ground up, with the latest in technology, and having found British workers quick to adopt the Japanese approach to car building, the plants in Britain are a match in efficiency, or nearly so, for their counterparts in Japan. (The Japanese companies said the flexibility of the work force in Britain and its being an English-speaking country were crucial reasons for putting plants there rather than on the Continent.)
"We are up with Japan or rapidly catching them in all aspects of our business," said John Cushnagham, the production director at Nissan's Sunderland factory.
Mr. Jones said that at this plant, 18 man-hours were needed to weld, paint and assemble a car, compared with 17 hours at its best plants in Japan. By contrast, most European plants require 30 to 35 man-hours, although a few, including Ford's most efficient European plant in Germany, have brought this down to the mid-20's.
 In response, auto makers in Europe are investing in new plants that they hope will keep them competitive. They are adopting Japanese-style management and production techniques to improve quality and productivity. And in some cases they are merging or forging joint ventures.
 
General Motors in Germany
 General Motors opened a $600 million plant in eastern Germany in September, drawing on its experience in a joint venture factory with Toyota in Fremont, Calif., to reduce production times and costs.
To respond more rapidly to changing consumer demand, Peugeot is trying to reduce development times for new cars from four and a half years to three, the Japanese standard. Renault of France and Volvo of Sweden are working closely together and for several years have been discussing a merger to bolster their finances and technology.
 The Japanese push comes as most auto makers in Europe are reeling from a recession that is expected to push car sales down at least 5 percent this year, to 12.5 million. Ford said in December that it would cut nearly 10,000 jobs in Europe this year, or more than 10 percent of its work force. Volkswagen said it would cut its work force by 30,000, or more than 10 percent, over several years.
But the Japanese auto makers, too, will be restricted in their ability to begin a full-scale assault on Europe. Weakness in Japan and sluggishness in the United States have sapped profits, leaving them with little additional money to put into efforts here.
At the same time, fearing that Italy, France and others might put up trade barriers even on British-made vehicles, the Japanese are clearly taking a go-slow approach and trying to play down the threat they represent to indigenous competitors.
 "We're not a big player by any definition," said Bryan Jackson, the director of corporate affairs for Toyota Motor Manufacturing U.K. "There are some very big players in Europe who make very good products, and we don't see ourselves so much competing with them as sharing in the growth of the market."
 
Better Days Seen for Japanese
 Most analysts project that the Japanese share of the overall European market will rise over the next five to seven years to about 16 percent, from 11 percent now.
The most encouraging statistics for the Japanese come from nations that do not impose individual limits on Japanese imports, in most cases because they have no significant domestic auto industries. In those nations -- Belgium, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Austria, Switzerland and the Scandinavian countries -- Japanese manufacturers had a market share of 28.3 percent in 1990, according to Euromotor Reports.
By comparison, in Germany, where there are no limits except for vigorous competition from the domestic producers, the Japanese share in 1990 was 15.9 percent. In Italy, where there are strict protectionist limits, their share in 1990 was 2 percent.
In contrast to their strategy in the United States, where the Japanese spent years competing only in small and less-expensive cars, they are going after a wide swath of the European market right from the start, with subcompacts like Nissan's Micra and mid-sized sedans like the Honda Accord, Nissan Primera and Toyota Carina.
The Japanese have already overcome their first big hurdle: convincing consumers that they can build cars with the tighter handling and less angular styling that European drivers are used to. All the companies have design studios or consumer-research operations in Europe.
Last year, Nissan's new subcompact, the Micra, won the European Car of the Year award, the first time that the prize, which is awarded by automotive journalists, has been given to a Japanese car.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Springboard to Europe's Car Market" shows the number of Japanese auto plants in Britian; percentage of cars sold in Western Europe (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); WALES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO; NISSAN MOTOR CO TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO; NISSAN MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); WALES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (58%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



716 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The sharp decline in long-term interest rates has prompted corporations, homeowners, states and municipalities to refinance debt, which will save money and help the economy. [Page A1.]
Congress is expected to approve an economic stimulus by early April. But tax increases and spending cuts will not be voted on conclusively until this summer at the earliest. [A16.] 
 The Fed's ethics program should be overhauled, according to a report by the central bank's inspector general. [D1.]
The Cuomo administration proposed a big increase in business taxes to keep the state's unemployment benefits fund solvent. [A1.]
Durable goods orders fell 1.7 percent in January. But excluding transportation, orders rose for the third month in a row. [D2.]
Alan Greenspan told Congress the economy was growing more slowly than in the second half of last year. [D7.]
Few workers who lose their jobs because of plant closings or layoffs are given advance notice despite a law. [D6.]
 
Companies
The French maker of the abortion pill RU486, Roussel-Uclaf, told the F.D.A. commissioner that it would discuss bringing the drug to America through another company or research institution. [A1.]
A preliminary Federal decision denied Microsoft a trademark for the word "Windows," which is used on the company's hugely successful computer program. [D1.]
I.B.M. said it expected to lay off some employees when it eliminates 500 corporate headquarters jobs next month. [D1.]
Coca-Cola will upgrade 10 bottling plants in China, investing $150 million over five years to expand production. [D1.]
Volkswagen is said to be courting G.M.'s new purchasing chief, who has led significant cost-cutting initiatives. [D3.]
Sales of domestic vehicles rose 8.7 percent in mid-February, reflecting a steady recovery of automotive demand. [D3.]
Dell Computer's stock plunged on worries over earnings and after it withdrew plans to sell four million more shares. [D3.]
The vice chairman of Nationsbank, an architect of the bank's merger, will apparently retire early. [D3.]
Gitano hired the former president of VF as its chairman. The company's banks also extended lines of credit. [D3.]
 
International
Japanese auto makers are turning to Europe, perhaps the world's most hotly contested and most promising market, now that they are firmly entrenched in the United States. [D1.]
 
Markets
The Dow gained 33.23, and most other averages rose proportionally more, but few analysts cheered. [D8.]
Treasury securities fell sharply, raising the yield on the 30-year bond to 6.88 percent and ending a long rally. [D16.]
The dollar firmed against the yen and other currencies. Gold prices fell in New York after rising overseas. [D15.]
Coffee futures prices rebounded strongly after the exchange said it had overstated a key statistic for three days. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
President Clinton's economic plan will cost less than a dollar a day per typical family. But that is only "a modest down payment" on eliminating the deficit. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Competition may end Argosy Gaming's monopoly on casino gambling in the St. Louis area. But the company's founders have already cleaned up. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Ammirati & Puris will try to recast Mastercard's image in its first work for the credit card company since winning the account from Lintas. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); ROUSSEL-UCLAF SA (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); CHEMICALS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); ETHICS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); FUTURES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); ABORTION (67%); GOLD MARKETS (66%); COFFEE MARKETS (60%); COFFEE (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



717 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Aim for Vote by April On General Budget and Job Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Clinton Administration officials and Democratic lawmakers expressed confidence today that by early April Congress would approve a general budget framework and measures to give the economy a quick stimulus.
The tougher part of President Clinton's economic plan, tax increases and spending cuts intended to lower the budget deficit, will not be voted on conclusively until this summer at the earliest and possibly not until the fall, the officials and lawmakers said. 
 "We're dealing with a very small window of opportunity," Leon E. Panetta, Mr. Clinton's budget director, said in an interview. "You've got to move quickly. If you don't, it will die a death of a thousand bites."
Evidence of just that kind of nibbling came at a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, called by Senator J. Bennett Johnston, the Louisiana Democrat who heads the panel, to give himself and colleagues from energy-producing states the opportunity to denounce Mr. Clinton's proposal for a new tax on all forms of fuel.
 
National Sales Tax Preferred
 Senator Johnston said he preferred a form of national sales tax, or value added tax, which he said would raise more revenue and be fairer.
Mr. Johnston, whose committee has no jurisdiction over taxes, received some support from other Senators, including Mark O. Hatfield, a Republican from Oregon, where hydroelectric prices would rise, and Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Democrat whose state depends heavily on coal for electricity.
But the consensus at a luncheon meeting of Democratic Senators was that a tax on all forms of fuel was the least politically painful way to raise taxes. Mr. Johnston is a strong supporter of Mr. Clinton, and colleagues said his opposition to a new energy tax could probably be overcome.
One element of the President's economic stimulus proposals -- an extension of unemployment benefits to people who have been out of a job more than six months -- was approved by the House of Representatives today by a vote of 254 to 161.
Under the bill, which would renew a law about to expire, workers who exhaust their standard 26 weeks of benefits would be eligible for benefits for up to 26 more weeks. As many as two million workers could be helped by the latest figures, Congress estimates.
 
Defections in the Ranks
 The White House initially wanted a final vote in mid-March on Mr. Clinton's stimulus package, which includes tax cuts for business investments and new spending for highways and other public works projects, and a vote a month later on a budget resolution.
But, faced with defections in their ranks, Democratic leaders in the Senate and the House, with the concurrence of the White House, decided Tuesday evening to have both votes just before the Easter recess, which begins April 2. The budget vote will come first, the leaders said.
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, said today that the change in schedule was a sign the economic plan was in trouble, but Democrats disputed that.
Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington and Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said support for the plan among Democrats was solid. Random interviews with a dozen Democratic lawmakers validated that view.
The main reason for the schedule change, Democrats said, was to provide political cover for lawmakers who did not want to be seen as expanding Federal spending before they dealt with the deficit.
The budget resolution will merely set the overall figures for spending and taxes, not the politically trickier specifics of which programs would be cut and which taxes raised. Still, Democrats intend to use the vote on the resolution to emphasize their determination to cut the budget.
Some Senators suggested that Mr. Clinton had miscalculated by thinking that popular spending and tax cut measures were immediately needed to give lawmakers an incentive to support long-term deficit reduction.
But Roger C. Altman, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, said the new spending and tax reductions "had nothing to do with sugar-coating the medicine."
"The stimulus," he said in an interview, "is an insurance package against an economic relapse."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EASTER SEASON (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (68%); JURISDICTION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



718 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
WOMAN SLAIN AT BRONX COURTHOUSE
A woman accompanying her husband to his court appearance on a drug case was shot and killed by a gunman clad in a camouflage jacket and bulletproof vest inside the vestibule of the Bronx County Building, the police said. The police were investigating whether the killing was linked to the slayings of six people in a Bronx apartment on Feb. 14. A1. 
 An 18-year-old was arrested and charged with the six slayings, the police said. B3.
FERNANDEZ MOVES AGAINST BRONX BOARD
Schools Chancellor Fernandez moved to overrule a Bronx community school board that refused to begin disciplinary proceedings against a principal accused of humiliating an 8-year-old girl who said a custodian had raped her. B3.
AND THE WINNER IS . . . (STAY TUNED)
With unofficial returns showing them separated by only 77 votes out of almost 15,000 cast in a special election, two candidates for a City Council seat on the East Side of Manhattan will have to wait more than a week to learn who won. B4.
8 CHILDREN TAKEN FROM APARTMENT
The police removed eight children from a roach-infested apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, after they were found dirty, partly clothed and without food, the police said. B4.
Friends portray the woman shot in TriBeCa as a hardworking artist of modest means. B3.
The president of Columbia University's Teachers College announces resignation. B4.
 
REGION
 
JOBLESS FUND NEARLY EMPTY
The fund used to pay unemployment benefits in New York State will run out of money this week, and the Cuomo administration has proposed a significant increase in business taxes to keep the system solvent. A1.
OPENING SALVO IN BUDGET WAR
The State Assembly said that the state's revenues in the fiscal year beginning April 1 would be $550 million higher than Governor Cuomo has predicted, effectively throwing down the gauntlet in what is already shaping up to be a brutal battle over next year's budget. B6.
The Assembly Speaker said he would no longer play poker with lobbyists in the capital. B6.
YANKEE DOODLE'S TARGET, REVISITED
A 36-year-old British emigre computer programmer has another calling: restoring the reputation of the homesick but upright British soldier in the American Revolutionary War. New Brunswick journal, B6.
I.B.M. TO CUT 500 JOBS IN ARMONK
In what is likely to be the first of many such announcements, I.B.M. said that it was cutting 500 jobs -- some through layoffs -- at its Armonk, N.Y., headquarters. D1.
A mosque opens in Westbury, L.I. B6.
Newark fire that killed three is traced to faulty pipe. B5.
A convicted burglar is charged in three rapes and robberies in Plainfield, N.J. B5.
 
Chronicle B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BURGLARY (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ROBBERY (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); ARRESTS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



719 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Cheers From States for Clinton's Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
President Clinton's economic plan is drawing praise from a bipartisan collection of governors and from experts on state fiscal policy, who say that for the first time in years Washington has stopped trying to shift costly programs to the states.
Of two dozen Governors who responded to inquiries over the past week, Democrats uniformly approved of the President's plan, and even Republicans who opposed it on the ground that it would increase taxes on income and energy nevertheless welcomed its proposed infusions of Federal money. 
 Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois, a Republican, applauded Mr. Clinton's "infrastructure initiatives to stimulate economic recovery." And Gov. Pete Wilson of California, another Republican, said he found "much to like, much to applaud," including plans to reduce the deficit and reorganize welfare as a two-year job-training program.
 
Reversal of Recent Policy
 The experts in fiscal policy said Mr. Clinton's plan would radically change 12 years of Federal-state relations, a period in which the Federal Government transferred more responsibilities to the states than at any other time in American history, according to the United States Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
As Governor of Arkansas, Mr. Clinton spearheaded some of the governors' losing battles over shifting programs to states without paying for them. As a Presidential candidate, he complained that the Federal Government was creating too many inflexible and costly programs that reduced a state's ability to cope with social and financial problems it considered more pressing.
Mr. Clinton is not proposing to roll back 12 years of Federal mandates, but he does not add new ones. In addition, his economic stimulus package calls for spending about $15 billion in the states in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, including $3.75 billion for transportation, $850 million to comply with Federal clean-water standards, $300 million for immunizations and $1 billion for summer employment.
In the 1980's, by comparison, the Reagan and Bush Administrations reduced Federal aid to the states by 15 percent and to local governments by 55 percent, after accounting for inflation.
"It looks like a new ball game for the states," said Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States at the Rockefeller Institute in Albany. "At least in the first inning, the Federal Government is proposing to help the states instead of shifting burdens to them."
 
'Element of Fairness'
 Arthur L. Jones, a deputy press secretary to Mr. Clinton, said, "It had always been the President's idea to have the element of fairness measured at every level, including the relationship between the Federal Government and the states, and I think that has been accomplished."
William T. Pound, executive director of the National Conference of State Legislatures, noted that the Clinton plan would not rely heavily on increased excise taxes, unlike Federal budgets in the Reagan and Bush years. Excise taxes, like those on beer, are relatively more important to states than to the Federal Government, he said, and an increase in Federal excise taxes tends to decrease consumption and thereby reduce state tax collections.
In 1990, for example, the Federal Government raised taxes on distilled spirits, wine, beer, cigarettes and gasoline that were estimated to decrease state tax revenues by $4.3 billion over five years.
Even though the Clinton plan would raise taxes on energy -- an increase that distresses many governors -- Mr. Pound said it was important to the states that the tax was broad-based and not a specific one on gasoline.
"It's a pretty good plan," Mr. Pound said. "No, strike the 'pretty.' It's a good plan."
 
Looking at the Benefits
 Of the two dozen governors who were interviewed or who responded through their spokesmen, nearly all said the Clinton plan had something to offer their states. Gov. George V. Voinovich of Ohio, a Republican, said full financing of Head Start, the educational program for young children in low-income families, would save his state millions of dollars. He also praised the proposed job training for people leaving the military, which he said would help 100,000 Ohioans in the next few years.
Even in Connecticut, which is facing a $400 million deficit in the current fiscal year and stands to lose heavily from cutbacks in military spending, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. said he supported most of Mr. Clinton's plan.
"We'll get hurt," Mr. Weicker, an independent, said of the cuts in military spending and the higher taxes on wealthy individuals. "But having said that, I am not going to lead the whining parade. This is a national problem, and we have to commit to its solution."
Still, the praise for Mr. Clinton's plan was hardly unqualified. Some Governors said they feared that new income and energy taxes could harm their regions and choke off the economic recovery, though none complained about the $7 billion proposed for public-works projects or the $6.5 billion for investment tax credits for businesses.
And the Governors and public-policy experts cautioned that the plan had to be considered in context.
"What we heard the other night was the first part of the President's plan," said Brian M. Roherty, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. "But the trailing parts -- his budget and health-care plan -- are the ones that could have the most impact on states."
 
Gains and Losses
 No state has yet calculated the full financial impact of the Clinton plan. Aside from the increased Federal spending on certain programs, some states could see an increase in state tax revenues because they link their income-tax rates to Federal ones. Others would lose some revenue because they let taxpayers deduct Federal tax payments from taxable state income.
"States may gain or lose in some individual parts of the program," Mr. Gold said. "But the gains and loses tend to offset each other."
Higher energy taxes, which would include an estimated 7-cent-a-gallon increase in the price of gasoline, would disproportionately hurt Western states, Mr. Gold said. On the other hand, higher Federal taxes would do more harm to states with high per-capita incomes, and the five wealthiest states are on the East Coast: New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and New York.
"On balance the states' most important consideration is what this plan will do for the national economy," Mr. Gold said. "If the national economy becomes more stable and grows, that is very positive for state resources."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US) PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXCISE TAX (71%); SEASONAL WORKERS (68%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



720 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: A Simmering Argument Despite Two Similar Pasts

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

 BODY:
John Rodriguez and Angel Jimenez shared common problems that could have bound them as friends. The two 15-year-olds were both in a special-education program for emotionally troubled students at Junior High School 25. Both came from families that have struggled to overcome financial troubles while trying to give their children an education. Both seemed to be searching for a place for themselves on the Lower East Side.
Somehow, they wound up enemies, consumed by the sort of adolescent rivalry that sometimes explodes if left unchecked. School officials and classmates said the stabbing of Mr. Jimenez was a final confrontation in a feud between the two youths that had been simmering since September. No one claimed to know how the bad blood began. 
 As family friends poured into the East Sixth Street apartment of the victim's mother, Evelyn Jimenez, last night, relatives of Mr. Rodriguez said that Mr. Rodriguez had long been the victim of Mr. Jimenez's attacks and taunts.
The mother of the suspect, Rosa Vargas, said her son had been beaten by Mr. Jimenez at least twice. She said that two months ago she had gone to the police and to the school seeking an order of protection, but she had been told that because the case involved minors who were not related, no such order could be given.
Late yesterday morning, shortly after the teen-agers attended the same shop class and only minutes before the stabbing, Mr. Rodriguez's mother said that Mr. Rodriguez called his father on the phone to say that he wanted to leave the school and that his life had been threatened.
 
'Seemed to Be Building'
 William Ubinas, the school district superintendent, said that Ms. Vargas had gone to the Seventh Precinct station house "at some point" in the last several months to show them photographs of Mr. Rodriguez beaten up. But he said it was unclear who had done the beating.
"One thing is certain," Mr. Ubinas said. "This seemed to be building for this young man."
In the family's three-bedroom apartment in the Lillian Wald Houses on East Sixth Street, the victim's mother sat on a couch sobbing heavily and railing against the dangers in the schools.
"How many kids have to die before they do something about security?" Mrs. Jimenez said. "It's safer in the streets than in the school."
She showed a recent photograph of her son, a husky young man in black jeans and a yellow T-shirt. And she said that she often worried about sending her three other children outside to the street, including Angel's fraternal twin, Luis.
In the boys' bedroom, there were two bright red mountain bikes, a collection of matchbox cars and works of graffiti-style art.
An uncle, Raymond Jimenez, said that Mr. Jimenez's father had last worked as a parking garage attendant, but he was now unemployed. He said Mr. Jimenez had sometimes gotten into fights, but he said no one in the family knew of any kind of running feud.
 
Account of Harassment
 Not far away and also in tears, an aunt of the suspect, Odalys Rodriguez, stood on a stairwell outside the family's two-bedroom apartment in a walkup tenement building at 143 Ludlow Street, just two blocks from the school.
She said that the victim was the ringleader of a small group of youths who had noticed that her nephew had a slight, gangly build, and had marked him as a "pushover." Her account was echoed in interviews with six students outside the school yesterday.
She said the family, frustrated in their attempts to get protection from the police, recently kept Mr. Rodriguez out of school for two weeks.
A police investigator who insisted on anonymity said the Rodriguez family had filed complaints that the youth had been harassed, but the complaints had nothing to do with Mr. Jimenez.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rodriguez after his arrest in the slaying of Angel Jimenez. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); 

PERSON: WOLFF, CRAIG; RODRIGUEZ, JOHN; JIMENEZ, ANGEL

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



721 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: U.S., Seeing Progress, Acts to Restart Peru Aid

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration will take part in a $2 billion loan program for Peru and is moving toward extending economic aid to that country, officials said today.
Administration officials said the loan would be used to help Peru become current on loans to multilateral financial institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The officials added that the loan would be the first economic aid given to Peru since the United States cut off aid to protest President Alberto K. Fujimori's seizure of nearly dictatorial power in April. 
 The officials said the loan and direct aid would be in response to Mr. Fujimori's changes to tame rampant inflation and keep debts to the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank from worsening.
In addition Administration officials said, Mr. Fujimori has held elections in recent months for a Constituent Assembly. This week his Government pledged to widen access for monitors checking allegations of human rights abuses by security forces.
 
2 Ministers at State Dept.
 On Tuesday, Economic Minister Jorge Camet and Justice Minister Fernando Vega Santa Gadea met with State Department and White House officials. Administration officials said the ministers had pledged that their Government would carry out steps like allowing the International Committee of the Red Cross access to all political detainees, requesting advisory services from the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, holding regular meetings with domestic rights groups and stopping the the harassment of representatives of international groups like Americas Watch and Amnesty International.
"We think these are important human rights commitments and, hopefully, another step toward the re-establishment of full democracy in Peru," a State Department official said.
Administration officials described the bridge loan, which is being made by the United States and Japan, as a means to go around rules by international lending institutions against rescheduling debt. The $2 billion will be transferred to an account controlled by the Peruvian Government, which will pay the money to I.M.F. and the World Bank, which turns around and lends money to Peru. Peru then uses that money to repay the United States and the Japanese. The whole transaction will take no more than a few hours, officials said.
They payments on the loan to the I.M.F. and the World Bank are important because they let Peru re-establish a sense of credit worthiness with international financial institutions. Multilateral institutions have stopped extending new credits to Peru since former President Alan Garcia sharply limited payments on loans in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (55%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (55%); AMERICAS WATCH (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMERICAS WATCH (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (55%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (55%); AMERICAS WATCH (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMERICAS WATCH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); POLITICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



722 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: West's Drought Ends, the Political Terrain Altered

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 24

 BODY:
With yet another winter storm having pounded the West Coast Tuesday, creating mudslides, urban flooding and towering snow drifts in the High Sierra, the drought that has punished the West for six years has come to a drenching end.
After two months of relentless rains and snows, Gov. Pete Wilson made it official today by declaring the drought over because the reservoirs are expected to reach 90 percent of average for the month by April. "The end of rationing does not mean the end of conservation," he said. 
 The drought left behind a fundamentally changed political landscape across the West, breaking the lock that agriculture has long held on water and diverting more to cities and to environmental protection. Despite raging rivers and filling reservoirs, many California farmers say they now face years of hardship under a "regulated drought" in irrigation.
Increasingly, legal and economic barriers against transferring water from farm use are coming down -- in Colorado, Utah, Arizona, Nevada and now, most dramatically, California. It is a trend that is likely to quicken under the Clinton Administration.
 
Nowhere to Look
 "There is no place else to look for water now, so the only solution is to move around water already in use," said David H. Getches, an expert in Western water law at the University of Colorado School of Law in Boulder.
For now, though, there is too much water. Since December, rain and snowstorms have blanketed the Western United States and Mexico from the Pacific Coast to the Rocky Mountains, causing flooding in Las Vegas, Los Angeles and San Francisco and crop damage in the Arizona desert.
Since Jan. 1, Phoenix has had more rain than perennially soggy Seattle. Some 3,500 people were evacuated today along a 90-mile stretch of the raging Gila River in Yuma County.
Rain and snow are well above average through much of the West except for pockets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Montana, said Anthony Willardson, associate director of the Western States Water Council, which represents the governors of 16 states.
On Friday, Governor Wilson declared an emergency in Los Angeles County after flooding killed four people and swamped homes. In Northern California, the snow shut down Interstate 80 on Saturday, cutting the main route between San Francisco and Reno. On Tuesday, rain caused mudslides in the Santa Cruz Mountains south of the San Francisco Bay Area. More rain is forecast.
 
Deep Snow in Mountains
 Most water used by California cities, industries and farms comes from the runoff from snow in the mountains, which is captured in reservoirs and channeled south and west in great aqueducts. According to the California Department of Water Resources, the water content of the snowpack on Feb. 18 was more than 150 percent of the historical average statewide and seven times what it was in the worst of the drought in 1991. Los Angeles and many other cities have lifted restrictions.
More than two feet of snow fell on the 7,000-foot Huntington Lake area of the Sierra, above Fresno, last weekend, sending drifts over resort cabins; another two feet fell Monday.
But in the valley below, the snow means nothing but frustration for farmers like Larry C. Turnquist in Cantua Creek. Like hundreds of other farmers in the Westlands Water District, he can see snow in the mountains but can expect little benefit.
Farmers in the southern part of the Central Valley have been told they will get only 25 percent of normal irrigation water this year from the Federal Central Valley Project because of new laws and rules that divert water to protect fisheries and repair environmental damage to wetlands. Mr. Turnquist says he will have to fallow much of his land and lay off hands.
 
Alliance Breaks Down
 The drought accelerated forces that had been building for years as the West urbanized, forging a new alliance between urban and environmental interests. The once powerful political alliance between cities and farmers that has long pushed for new dam projects has broken down.
"The next decade and beyond represents a different climate in which agricultural and urban interests will not be 100 percent in lockstep," said Patricia Mulroy, general manager of the Las Vegas Valley Water District and chairwoman of the newly formed Western Urban Water Coalition. "They are essentially competitors for the same scarce resource."
Odd new allies have emerged. Water authorities in thirsty Southern California found themselves in league with their arch enemies in Northern California and the environmental movement to fight the farmers, who consume more than 80 percent of California's available surface water.
And last year, urban water districts in the West broke ranks with rural ones and supported a bill in Congress that revamped the Bureau of Reclamation's Central Valley Project, California's largest water system.
 
Farmers Paying More
 The bill, sponsored by Representative George Miller of California and Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, both Democrats, made farmers pay more for water, diverted more to protect endangered species like the winter-run salmon and created a kind of free market in water. The bill also included nearly $1 billion to complete the Central Utah Project, originally meant for agriculture but now redesigned mainly to supply Salt Lake City and aid the environment.
In addition, last December the California Water Resources Control Board, in an effort to repair environmental damage in the San Joaquin Delta and San Francisco Bay, ordered further reductions on water to farms.
"What is more revolutionary than water transfers is the elevation of wildlife to a status equal to other uses," said Marc Reisner, a San Francisco author who crusades against what he sees as water waste by farmers.
But farmers see unfairness in all this, particularly in the Westlands Water District, a region the size of Rhode Island that produces tomatoes, cotton and other crops. The district's 650 farms rely on Central Valley water, pumped south from the delta. Other farms that had original water rights before the project was built in the 1940's have first claim on the water.
But those like Larry Turnquist who contracted for the new water find their allocation cut to 25 percent of normal because of the new rules, though continued snow and rain may raise it to 40 percent. Mr. Turnquist has struggled to survive the drought years, spending $165,000 on wells to replace lost surface water, fallowing land and, this year, planting only tomatoes and cotton. With water uncertain, he says, banks are reluctant to lend for planting.
 
Calamity Is Predicted
 He agreed there were environmental problems but says the farmers have been political victims: "Congress has a mental attitude that it is important to be environmentally correct, and fish reign supreme."
Not far away, in Riverdale, Daniel Errotabere, general partner of the family-run Errotabere Ranches, says he laid off one-third of the hands on his 3,000-acre farm and foresees calamity for the region, already suffering unemployment around 20 percent.
Such complaints get no sympathy in Los Angeles, 210 miles to the south. Michael J. Gage, chairman of the board of the politically powerful Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the wholesaler that serves 15 million urbanites, says more efficient farming is long overdue.
"Agriculture is producing more than it did 10 or 20 years ago with the same water," he said. "But it's clear they still resist the best management practices. Even if the drought is over, Californians have learned that water is a finite resource."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A series of winter storms that has pummeled the West Coast has ended the drought in California, but control of the fragile water supply has been irrevocably altered. The iron grip that agriculture held over water has been broken. Larry C. Turnquist in Cantua Creek is one of many farmers who will get only 25 percent of his past allotment of irrigation water this year because of the changes. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "At Last, a Wet Year in Parched California" tracks precipitation, runoff, and water in snowpack since 1986. Figures shown are cumulative for the end of February, as a percentage above or below those of a normal water year (for 1993, Feb. 18 estimates). Water years run from Oct. 1 of the prior year to Sept. 30 of the named year. (Source: California Department of Water Resources)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (54%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; RAIN; DROUGHT DROUGHT (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LANDSLIDES (89%); WEATHER (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); RIVERS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); IRRIGATION (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); TRENDS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



723 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Welcoming U.S. Help in the Balkans

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Even before President Clinton's expected announcement of a decision to airdrop relief supplies to civilians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Western European leaders welcomed it today as a sign that the United States was not going to leave them alone with the seemingly impossible task of stopping the war in the Balkans.
Both the French and British Foreign Ministers called Mr. Clinton's move "good news" today, and Prime Minister John Major of Britain met with Mr. Clinton in the White House. But European leaders also see risk as well as consolation in the President's decision. 
 "This is a big military involvement by the Americans," said David Howell, the Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the British Parliament. "It's very dangerous."
It would be most dangerous of all, some diplomats said, if it failed to have any effect on the fighting. A European diplomat summed up the stakes this way: "The Americans are now in the game; American prestige is engaged."
 
More Active Role Unclear
 What is unclear, to the Europeans as well as to the Serbian forces whom the Western allies hold responsible for most of the fighting, is whether the airdrops represent a step by the United States toward active military involvement -- peacemaking, which the Europeans have given lip service to but shied away from up to now.
"The Serbs know now that the Europeans are not going to get involved militarily," a diplomat said today. "But the Serbs don't know what the Clinton Administration might do."
The British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, said in Paris that he welcomed the prospect that the United States would now be taking part in a relief effort to which both Britain and France had already committed thousands of soldiers serving with United Nations forces in the Balkans.
The implication of remarks like these from British and French officials in recent days was that the European allies had not just been sitting on their hands watching the belligerents kill one another, and that the United States would now find out for itself just how hard it was to get them to stop.
Neither Britain nor France has indicated willingness to take part in the planned airdrop missions to Muslim areas in eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina. Diplomats said the reason was that if Serbian forces there fired on the American C-130 planes dropping supplies, and their escort planes fired back, the Serbs might take revenge on British and French soldiers in the United Nations forces on the ground.
 
Yugoslav Army Protests
 "American interference is becoming increasingly drastic and unbearable in Yugoslavia," the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav Army said in a statement in Belgrade today, warning that it would take unspecified "appropriate steps."
Mr. Clinton's reported consideration of airdrops to Bosnian-Serb and Croatian villages was seen here as a move to make the missions seem to be aimed at all suffering civilians on the ground, not against the Serbs alone.
Mr. Clinton's apparent gamble is that the threat of American involvement alone might finally lead all factions in the Balkans to be more amenable to a peaceful settlement.
The most likely possible framework for a settlement in Bosnia, the Europeans believe, is the one worked out in January by the United Nations negotiators, Lord Owen of Britain and former Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance.
The Clinton Administration's special envoy, Reginald Bartholomew, is scheduled to meet with representatives to NATO in Brussels on Friday to discuss proposed American modifications to the plan. The NATO Secretary General, Manfred Worner, supported the United States plan to airdrop relief supplies to Bosnia and said today that he hoped that it would "contribute to achieving a settlement of the conflict."
 
Problems for Germany
 What to do if the fighting continues despite all the political, economic and military measures so far is far from agreed on in the alliance. If American supply planes were shot at over Bosnia and NATO air traffic control planes coordinated retaliatory air strikes by American or other allied planes, Germany, for instance, would immediately face a domestic political crisis.
The German coalition Government is divided over whether the 1949 Constitution bars German soldiers from taking part in either combat or peacekeeping missions beyond their borders, and Germans make up about a third of the crews of the NATO Awacs air traffic control planes.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Defense Minister Volker Ruhe, both Christian Democrats, say German crew members on the NATO air control planes that monitor Serbian air traffic could stay aboard if the planes directed air strike missions under United Nations authority. But Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel and his Free Democrats insist that without a constitutional change, or a ruling from the German constitutional court, the German crew would have to disembark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; EUROPE; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; AIRLIFTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



724 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Orders Down 1.7% in Month For Durables

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Plunging aircraft purchases dragged factory orders for durable goods down 1.7 percent in January, the Government said today.
But excluding the volatile transportation sector, orders rose for the third month in a row. 
 "If you look at the underlying trend," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis, "it shows a pretty solid upward trend in demand. In fact, manufacturing is doing quite nicely."
Testifying before Congress, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, concurred that the economy's current prospects were "reasonably good," but cautioned that the recovery was still not accelerating strongly. [Page D7.]
 
Biggest Drop Since July
 The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods -- items like trucks and turbines expected to last more than three years -- totaled a seasonally adjusted $132.8 billion, down from $135.1 billion in December. The drop was the biggest since a 2.7 percent decline last July.
But the department also said the December advance was 9.6 percent, even larger than the 8.7 percent in its original estimate. It was the biggest jump since a 12.1 percent advance in July 1991 and, analysts said, could not be sustained.
Orders, a key barometer of manufacturing activity, had fallen 1.6 percent in November after jumping 4.6 percent a month earlier.
The December advance was propelled by a 24.6 percent surge in transportation orders, including a big increase in aircraft. The January decline was driven by an 8.2 percent drop in transportation, primarily in aircraft.
Excluding the transportation sector, orders were up seven-tenths of a percent in January, 5 percent in December and 1.5 percent in November.
Analysts also noted a four-tenths of a percent increase in unfilled orders, the third gain in four months, meaning that factories are having a harder time meeting demand using current capacity and manpower.
"It suggests that we could be getting increases in employment," said Evelina Tainer of Prime Economic Consulting in Chicago.
In fact, orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft were up two-tenths of a percent, the third straight advance. These orders are often a barometer of industry plans to expand and modernize.
Military orders, which are also volatile, rose 12.1 percent in January after increasing 17.5 percent a month earlier. These orders had plunged 9.1 percent in November. Excluding the military component, orders were down 2.6 percent.
Orders for primary metals jumped 7 percent after rising 9.2 percent a month earlier.
Industrial machinery and equipment orders were up 4.8 percent after a 3.5 percent gain in December.
Orders for electronic and other electrical equipment, on the other hand, fell 3.2 percent, wiping out nearly half of the 7.1 percent advance the previous month.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" shows total new orders for durable goods from 8/91 to 1/93 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



725 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Modest Growth for '93 Forecast by Greenspan

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress today that the economy was growing more slowly than in the second half of last year and that its momentum was still not strong enough to be self-sustaining.
"The basic momentum of the recovery," he said, is "not yet secured" because of cutbacks in military spending and strains created by large business and household debt. 
 Nonetheless, he forecast moderate growth for all of 1993 and said new data suggested that the economy grew even faster in the fourth quarter than the 3.8 percent the Commerce Department had originally reported.
"The prospects are reasonably good for continued economic growth and declines in unemployment in 1993," he told the House Budget Committee.
 
Clinton Package Praised
 For the third time in less than a week, Mr. Greenspan praised the Clinton deficit-reduction package, but he told Congress that additional deficit reduction measures would be needed because he foresaw the budget deficit rising again after 1997.
"The case for bringing down the structural" or underlying "budget deficit is compelling," he said. "The deficit has for some time been eroding the foundations of our economic strength."
Failure to approve a major deficit reduction plan, he said, will ultimately undermine the nation's living standards and levels of investment.
The Federal Reserve chairman repeated his view that the best way to reduce the deficit was through spending cuts; he fears if taxes are increased, spending will be allowed to rise in tandem.
 
Spending Cut Held Preferable
 "If one is looking at the probability of a sustained reduction in the deficit, the probability is higher if it is done from the expenditure side than from the tax side," he said.
Mr. Greenspan said the package the Clinton Administration and banking regulators were working on to encourage more lending should help reduce the so-called credit crunch.
The plan, which Administration officials say will be released in a few days, will aim to spur more lending to small business by reducing burdensome paperwork imposed on banks and by making it easier for financial institutions with a strong capital base to lend to entrepreneurs based on their character, rather than on their collateral or credit history.
The plan is also expected to make it easier for banks to appeal unfavorable decisions by banking examiners.
"The results to date in trying to break the back of this credit crunch have not been acceptable," he said. "There has been some improvement but clearly nowhere near enough."
"The major problem we have here is fear on the part of bankers, and that is not easy to resolve," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, with Daniel Kohn, an aide, yesterday before testifying in Congress on America's economy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (62%); PERSONAL DEBT (56%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



726 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: A Skittish Rally Raises the Dow 33.23 Points, to 3,356.50

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Seldom has the stock market had a rally as joyless as yesterday's. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 33.23 points, or 1 percent, to 3,356.50, and most other averages rose proportionally more, but few analysts let themselves cheer.
The market's jagged performance of late -- often hanging on every White House rumor or pronouncement -- left few so bold as to say whether the rally would continue. 
 "We have a Jekyll-and-Hyde, schizophrenic market going on here," said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers.
Yesterday was Dr. Jekyll's day, as Big Board gainers bested losers by about 12 to 7, on heavy volume of 316.8 million shares traded. The Nasdaq Composite index was up 11.06 points, or 1.7 percent, to 662.46, led by the large computer and biotechnology issues.
Other stocks that have recently suffered in health care, retailing and tobacco, also recovered smartly yesterday, a sign that investors were shopping for discounted merchandise.
Some strategists said that economic optimism pulled stocks up, after yesterday's report that durable goods orders for January, while lower, were not as bad as expected after December's huge rise. The same optimism might have caused a decline in the bond prices yesterday, which usually fall on expectations of economic strength.
But Steven G. Einhorn, co-chair of the investment committee at Goldman, Sachs, portrayed a stock market supported by low interest rates yet limited by worries about the news from Washington. After all the jumps and plunges of the last couple of weeks, he said, the Standard & Poor's 500 index is almost where it was when details of President Clinton's budget plans started coming out at the beginning of last week.
"The market is kind of stuck where it is," he said. "You're going to have a fair amount of volatility, but little travel."
Among the medical stocks that came some distance yesterday, Abbott Laboratories rose 1 3/4, to 26; Johnson & Johnson 2 1/8, to 42 1/4, and U.S. Healthcare 4 3/8, to 44 1/2. Most still remain far below the highs achieved before investors began worrying about Administration plans to control health-care costs.
Richard Eakle, whose money management firm bears his name, still advised against hunting for bargains among medical issues. "They're broken stocks," he said, saying that buyers had better capture any profits in the very short term before they become vulnerable to further declines. He compares these stocks to open-heart surgery patients, with risky, prolonged recoveries.
Tobacco stocks, depressed by fears of higher taxes to pay for better health care, also moved up yesterday, as Philip Morris gained 2 5/8, to 66 1/4, and RJR Nabisco Holdings 5/8, to 8 3/8.
Auto stocks, with some renewed backing from analysts, recovered from a selloff on Tuesday; Chrysler rose 2 5/8 to 38 1/2. Retailers, hurt on Tuesday by a report of lower consumer confidence, also rebounded, as Wal-Mart gained 2 5/8, to 62 1/2. News of a major agreement with Taiwan helped A.T.& T. add 1 3/4, to 56 1/4.
Nasdaq's beaten-down biotechnology stocks continued an advance that began yesterday, as Chiron added 2, to 49 1/4, and Biomet 3/4, to 12 1/2. Amgen rose 2 3/4, to 46 1/4, but a company executive said after the close that first- quarter earnings would run 10 to 15 percent behind Wall Street's expectations. Amgen shares then plunged 9, to 37 1/4, in after-hours trading.
Many Nasdaq computer stocks marched ahead, with Microsoft up 4 3/8, to 83 7/8; Intel up 4 1/2, to 117 3/4, and Oracle up 2, to 31 5/8.
But Dell dropped 6 1/8, to 30 1/8 ,after withdrawing its plan to sell more stock. Compaq, on the Big Board, dropped 2 3/8, to 45, after a downgrading by Wall Street analysts.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); ABT (SWX) (81%); ABT (NYSE) (81%); ABT (LSE) (81%); ABL (FRA) (81%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (50%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); KRAFT NABISCO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



727 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Revenue Figure Is at Odds With Cuomo's

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Releasing its forecast for New York State's economy, the State Assembly said today that the state's revenues in the fiscal year beginning April 1 would be $550 million higher than Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has predicted.
In putting out a number so at odds with the Governor's, the Democratic-controlled Assembly has thrown down the gauntlet in what is already shaping up to be a brutal battle over next year's budget, which is due on March 31. The Republican-led Senate has yet to release its revenue estimates, but they are expected to be even higher than the Assembly's, perhaps by as much as several hundred million dollars. 
 Mr. Cuomo is to release revised projections of his own next week, but he is very likely to continue taking an extremely conservative approach despite signs that the economy is improving.
"We anticipate that the budget will stay tightly balanced, and we only want to make changes that we see as reasonable and prudent," said Claudia Hutton, a spokeswoman for the State Division of the Budget. Because of unexpected revenues, the state is projecting that it will end the current fiscal year with a $184 million surplus -- money that will immediately be applied to next year's budget gap.
 
Courting Conservativism
 In January, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, proposed an austere, $31.5 billion budget that would impose a variety of new taxes and fees; postpone scheduled cuts in personal and business taxes; carve hundreds of millions of dollars out of the state's school-aid and Medicaid programs, and wrest $516 million from a fund that is supposed to be dedicated to transportation.
Mr. Cuomo is deciding whether to run for re-election in 1994 and he would like to be able to present himself as a fiscal conservative who has kept spending down. The Legislature, in turn, would like to be able to spend more money to restore some of the deep cuts Mr. Cuomo has proposed.
On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo accused the Legislature, and particularly the Senate Republicans, of imprudent spending practices. "I would think that given traditional political rhetoric the Republicans would immediately say, 'We should spend less than the Governor wants,' " he said. "I suspect that, as usual, the Legislature may feel the necessity to spend more."
The Governor, the Assembly and the Senate have yet to sit down and hash out their differences over the revenue estimates, a dispute they must resolve before they can begin to discuss the meat of the budget.
 
Economy a Factor
 Steven Greenberg, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat, said the Assembly's figures did not mean that the state was suddenly awash in cash, but only that the projected $3.7 billion deficit had been reduced by $550 million.
"This is not the doom and gloom that it's been for the last few years, but it's not sunshine and happiness either," said Mr. Greenberg, who said that the Assembly had based its figures on an increase in tax receipts in December and January as well as on rosier predictions for the economy.
Last week, State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, a Republican, reported that the state had taken in $1.26 billion more in revenues over the last 10 months than expected. Mr. Cuomo's office responded by saying that the new money had arisen because people were seeking to pay their taxes before President Clinton could impose new taxes, not because of a significant upturn in the economy.
"The way he presented it would lead people to believe that we've got $1.3 billion just sitting around in Pat's shoe," said Miss Hutton, referring to the State Budget Director, Patrick J. Bulgaro. "But what it really means is that people are paying us earlier, and they're not going to pay twice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MEDICAID (73%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LYALL, SARAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



728 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Vehicle Sales Increase 8.7% In Midmonth

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Sales of domestically produced vehicles rose 8.7 percent in mid-February, reflecting a steady recovery of automotive demand, particularly among buyers of light trucks.
Sales of pickups, mini-vans and sport-utility vehicles rose 26.5 percent, to 123,361, in the Feb. 11-20 period, compared with the period a year earlier. Car sales were weak, dropping 1.3 percent, to 171,799. 
 The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales was 6.5 million, compared with 6.2 million a year earlier. But analysts asserted that overall sales, including light trucks, have been running at an industry average of about 14 million, compared with total sales last year of 13.1 million.
 
 
Not Raising Estimates
 "Frankly, sales this year are higher than we expected," said Harvey Heinbach, automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York. But Mr. Heinbach said his brokerage firm was not raising its estimates of industry sales out of concern that President Clinton's economic package could hurt sales later on.
Automotive demand has not been uniformly strong across the nation. "We're still deep in an automotive recession on the West Coast," said Kent Hagan, who operates Midway Ford in Los Angeles. "Every department of my dealership has dropped dramatically in the last 7 to 10 days."
Among the Big Three, the Ford Motor Company added to its share of the market, while the General Motors Corporation gave up ground.
G.M.'s domestic car lines were off 8.5 percent, to 68,803. The biggest losers were the Oldsmobile and Buick lines; Saturn was the only G.M. car brand to gain sales from a year earlier. An industry publication, Ward's Automotive Reports, had said on Monday that G.M., with growing inventories, might trim domestic car production in March and April.
 
 
Gain for G.M. Trucks
 G.M.'s light-truck sales gained 23.9 percent, to 42,473, largely because of stronger sales of full-size pickups, Chevrolet Suburban utility vehicles and compact pickups.
Ford Motor's car sales rose 4.9 percent, to 53,350. Ford's light-truck sales rose 15.5 percent, to 40,294.
Ward's provided estimates of the Chrysler Corporation's domestic sales: a 28.1 percent gain in cars, to 22,100, and a 42 percent increase in light trucks, to 32,300. Chrysler posts its sales results only once a month.
The Honda Motor Company, which builds cars in the United States and Canada, saw sales of domestic models fall 27.3 percent, to 9,024.
The Toyota Motor Corporation posted a decline of 13.2 percent in car sales, to 9,129. Sales of domestically built Toyota pickups was 2,828, more than a fourfold increase over last year. The Nissan Motor Company reported a 67.1 percent increase in car sales, to 5,411.
For reporting purposes, vehicles assembled in the United States, Canada or Mexico are considered domestically made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); HMC (NYSE) (82%); 7267 (TSE) (82%); 7201 (TSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MINIVANS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



729 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Firmer Against Yen In Mostly Technical Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was firmer against the Japanese yen and other major foreign currencies yesterday in dealings inspired more by technical trading strategies than economic developments.
Gold prices fell in New York after rising overseas. Gold bullion for current delivery closed at $329.70 an ounce, down $1.40, on the New York Commodity Exchange. A late bid from the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold at $329.20 an ounce, off $1.30. 
 The dollar moved within a fairly defined price range during the day as traders could find no remarkable economic news to bid it higher, George Lopez, a trader at the First Boston Corporation, said.
"It's really technical moves right now," Mr. Lopez said.
 
Response to Durable Goods Data
 Release of the January report on orders for durable goods, which showed a 1.7 percent decline for the month, actually helped push the dollar higher, said Karen Kluge, corporate adviser at Credit Suisse's New York office. Many analysts focused on the fact that despite the decline, when the volatile transportation orders were removed, the figure rose seven-tenths of 1 percent.
Ms. Kluge said the Japanese yen's strong rise abated during the session. The yen had made strong advances against the dollar in recent days, after comments by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen were interpreted as a call for a stronger Japanese currency.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 116.93 yen, up 0.15 yen from Tuesday's close. Later in London, it finished at 116.88 yen. By closing in New York, the dollar was quoted at 117.475 yen, up from 117.05 late Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.4385, from $1.4585 late Tuesday. At closing in New York, the pound was quoted at $1.4305, less expensive than $1.4530 late Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Tuesday's late rates, included: 1.6265 German marks, up from 1.6230; 1.5065 Swiss francs, up from 1.4975; 5.5155 French francs, up from 5.5100; 1,595.375 Italian lire, up from 1,583.25, and 1.25915 Canadian dollars, up from 1.25325.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US DOLLAR (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE LOPEZ (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



730 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 7458 words

HEADLINE: Uncovered Short Sales Are Up 2.6% on Nasdaq

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The number of Nasdaq shares sold short and not yet covered rose slightly from mid-January to mid-February, the National Association of Securities Dealers said yesterday.
Short interest in all Nasdaq securities totaled 477.2 million shares in the period, up nearly 2.6 percent from the previous month's level of 465.2 million. 
 Reflecting the rising volatility among over-the-counter issues recently, the number of companies whose stock was sold short rose to 3,815, from 3,708 during the previous period.
The most recent figures reflect the continued record-breaking rise in short interest that began nearly a year ago. Nasdaq short interest is more than 25 percent higher than it was last April.
Figures on short interest are a widely watched gauge of investor sentiment because they reflect the activities of professionals who specialize in identifying companies they consider overvalued. These professionals borrow companies' shares and then sell the stock, essentially betting they will be able to buy the shares later for less money, repay the lender and pocket the difference.
 
Bull Market Has Stumbled
 Until recently, the short-selling business has been treacherous in the Nasdaq market, because short interest has risen even as over-the-counter market indexes kept posting new record highs.
But in late January and so far this month, the bull market in Nasdaq issues has stumbled, helping to ease short-sellers' pain.
"On average, short-sellers are up between 6 percent and 8 percent so far this year," said Harry Strunk, a Palm Beach, Fla., investment consultant who tracks short selling. "And February in particular has been a good month."
Worries about the implications of President Clinton's economic proposals, in addition to skyrocketing price/ earnings ratios for many high-flying Nasdaq issues, have contributed to the market's volatility and its recent downward price spiral.
Since the beginning of February, the Nasdaq composite index has fallen by 6 percent.
 
Recent Increase in Exposure
 Encouraged by the price action, Mr. Strunk said short-sellers have greatly increased their exposure to the market in the last few weeks.
"I would say these guys are much more exposed now than they were at the beginning of February," he said. "The average short is probably between 80 percent and 90 percent invested. In January, they were probably only 50 percent invested."
The short-interest figures are as of the 15th of the month, and include all short-interest positions reported as of Feb. 5 and settled as of Feb. 12.

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Increases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	02/12/93	01/15/92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Tele Commun Inc A 	10,432,708	8,002,032	2,430,676	T	Novell Inc 	3,274,377	2,094,004	1,180,373	T	Seagate Tech 	2,125,289	1,016,585	1,108,704	T	Site Based Media Inc	2,476,154	1,459,899	1,016,255		Network General Corp	2,014,285	1,156,650	 857,635	T	System Software 	1,873,335	1,035,615	 837,720	T	Microsoft Corp 	3,042,301	2,206,752	 835,549	T	SCI Systems Inc 	4,713,774	3,901,048	 812,726	T	Snapple Beverage Corp	1,316,381	 550,681	 765,700	T	Comcast Corp A 	3,096,366	2,356,953	 739,413	T	Food Lion IncA	1,898,222	1,165,403	 732,819	T	DSC Commun Corp 	3,277,116	2,573,789	 703,327	T	Video Lottery Tech	1,002,543	 305,894	 696,649	T	Borland Intl Inc 	4,823,822	4,166,559	 657,263	T	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,819,984	2,186,802	 633,182	T	Natl Vision Assoc 	1,756,313	1,146,266	 610,047	T	Harmony Holdings Inc	 666,775	  76,390	 590,385		Michaels Stores Inc	1,967,685	1,407,651	 560,034	T	Liposome 	1,288,712	 740,353	 548,359	T	El Paso Electric Co	1,520,294	 986,584	 533,710	T	Bruno's Inc 	1,756,799	1,225,057	 531,742	T	Network Systems Corp	 948,673	 429,275	 519,398	T	+LDDS CommA 	1,125,857	 626,192	 499,665	T	Sybase Inc 	1,319,209	 840,994	 478,215	T	Mobile Telecomm Tech	4,163,492	3,727,316	 436,176	T	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Cover Ratios	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	02/12/93	Avg. Vol.	Days	Mkt	 	 	 	 	 	Fastenal Co. 	2,432,486	  59,053	  41	T	Mail Boxes Etc. 	1,868,221	  45,880	  41	T	Dibrell Brothers Inc.	2,314,888	  63,947	  36	T	Michael Foods Inc.	1,979,184	  60,807	  33	T	Summit Tech Inc. 	2,910,032	  93,834	  31	T	York Research Corp. 	2,739,567	  91,782	  30	T	Medical Marketing Gp	1,229,074	  43,839	  28	T	Trimble Navigation	1,377,401	  58,272	  24	T	Healthcare Svcs Gp	1,556,151	  66,950	  23	T	Aura Systems Inc. 	2,571,213	 122,805	  21	T	Fifth Third Bncp 	 767,086	  37,531	  20	T	Interneuron Pharm 	 827,549	  42,402	  20	T	Somatogen Inc. 	2,093,030	 104,628	  20	T	Littelfuse Inc. 	 630,848	  34,184	  18	T	Copytele Inc. 	1,960,847	 115,844	  17	T	Healthinfusion Inc.	 810,313	  47,484	  17	T	RPM Inc. 	1,448,133	  86,449	  17	T	Genetics Inst Dep Sh	 656,448	  40,288	  16	T	Micro Healthsys Inc.	 545,887	  34,001	  16	T	Pentair Inc. 	 664,551	  42,232	  16	T	Presstek Inc. 	 512,434	  31,230	  16	T	Greenwich Pharm Inc.	2,686,469	 197,443	  14	T	Pacificare HlthA	 676,331	  49,447	  14	T	Videocart Inc. 	2,901,601	 206,258	  14	T	Amer Power Convers	6,472,952	 500,740	  13	T	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Decreases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	02/12/93	01/15/93	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Adobe Systems Inc 	3,644,274	5,241,324	-1,597,050	T	Macmillan Bloedel 	 980,424	2,551,326	-1,570,902	T	Centocor Inc 	3,343,115	4,697,680	-1,354,565	T	Sovereign Bancorp 	 191,005	1,344,773	-1,153,768	T	Staples Inc 	1,052,697	2,106,422	-1,053,725	T	Scimed Life Sys Inc	2,147,543	3,126,358	 -978,815	T	Xoma Corp. 	1,615,119	2,571,559	 -956,440	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	3,272,792	4,197,953	 -925,161	T	Genzyme Corp 	1,826,830	2,649,362	 -822,532	T	Topps The 	 664,717	1,482,476	 -817,759	T	Amer Power Convers	6,472,952	7,180,629	 -707,677	T	Wellfleet Commun Inc	2,385,801	3,083,739	 -697,938	T	Washington Mut Sv Bk	 864,302	1,541,399	 -677,097	T	Rouse Co 	1,745,224	2,406,091	 -660,867	T	Midlantic Corp 	1,033,021	1,650,547	 -617,526	T	Lotus Development Corp	1,687,331	2,257,489	 -570,158	T	Jennifer Convertible	  73,143	 623,305	 -550,162	T	WPP Gp Adr 	1,611,176	2,160,267	 -549,091	T	Gerant Inds 	  5,900	 554,640	 -548,740		Cisco Sys Inc 	2,278,414	2,801,145	 -522,731	T	Dell Computer Corp 	4,127,250	4,616,053	 -488,803	T	Rally's Inc 	1,766,528	2,236,301	 -469,773	T	Medco Containmnt 	4,173,015	4,570,777	 -397,762	T	Qualcomm Inc 	 686,954	1,071,922	 -384,968	T	Peoples Heri Fin Gp	 536,748	 896,284	 -359,536	T	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Positions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	02/12/93	01/15/93	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Amer Power Convers	6,472,952	7,180,629	 -707,677	T	Tokos Med Corp Del 	5,614,569	5,258,571	 355,998	T	Borland Intl Inc 	4,823,822	4,166,559	 657,263	T	Comcast Corp Cl A Spcl	4,810,854	4,639,507	 171,347	T	SCI Systems Inc 	4,713,774	3,901,048	 812,726	T	LM Ericsson Tel ADR	4,399,227	4,254,968	 144,259	T	Medco Containmnt 	4,173,015	4,570,777	 -397,762	T	Quantum Corp 	4,171,579	3,795,617	 375,962	T	Mobile Telecomm Tech	4,163,492	3,727,316	 436,176	T	Dell Computer Corp 	4,127,250	4,616,053	 -488,803	T	Adobe Systems Inc 	3,644,274	5,241,324	-1,597,050	T	Centocor Inc 	3,343,115	4,697,680	-1,354,565	T	Compression Lab Inc	3,286,945	3,214,832	  72,113	T	DSC Commun Corp 	3,277,116	2,573,789	 703,327	T	Novell Inc 	3,274,377	2,094,004	1,180,373	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	3,272,792	4,197,953	 -925,161	T	Comcast Corp A 	3,096,366	2,356,953	 739,413	T	Outback Steakhouse	3,082,443	2,930,926	 151,517	T	Microsoft Corp 	3,042,301	2,206,752	 835,549	T	Summit Tech Inc 	2,910,032	2,861,856	  48,176	T	Videocart Inc 	2,901,601	2,762,136	 139,465	T	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,819,984	2,186,802	 633,182	T	Gensia Pharm Inc 	2,773,260	2,432,164	 341,096	T	York Research Corp 	2,739,567	3,090,960	 -351,393	T	Greenwich Pharm Inc	2,686,469	2,415,763	 270,706	T	
 

 	 	 	National Market	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	02/12/92	01/15/93	 	 	 	3Com Corp 	 517,646	 683,011	50 Off Stores Inc 	2,443,893	2,297,560	#+ACC Corp. 	  52,303	  20,349	Advanta Cl-A 	1,199,532	1,361,621	Advanta Cl-B 	 221,099	 440,835	AES Corp (The) 	 402,392	 447,315	Albank Finl Corp 	  9,260	  30,327	ASK Group (The) 	 312,479	 309,527	AST Research Inc 	 888,600	 547,470	#AW Brands Inc	 676,485	 305,947	Abbey Healthcare Gp	 641,259	 675,513	Acclaim Entertainmnt	1,881,708	1,537,244	Adaptec Inc 	 266,254	 358,560	Adobe Systems Inc 	3,644,274	5,241,324	Adv Tech Labs 	 188,337	 240,301	#Advan Interventional	  4,981	  97,672	Advanced Promotions	 370,948	 353,336	Advanced Tissue Sci	 698,213	 635,985	Affymax NV 	 134,087	 212,688	Aldus Corp 	 369,996	 224,675	#All Amer Semi Wts A	  0	  27,885	All Amer Semi Wts B	  11,118	  32,418	#All Amer Semiconduct	 171,724	  90,757	Alliance Pharm Corp 	 871,512	 840,084	#Allied Cap Commrcl	  27,249	  2,680	#Allied Clinical Labs	  52,878	  7,944	#Allied Group Inc 	  22,464	  1,123	Alteon Inc 	 330,639	 371,099	#Altera Corp 	 293,615	  91,551	#Amer Bankers Ins Gp	 165,996	  62,630	Amer BiogeneticA	 255,590	 240,434	Amer Dental Laser 	 463,343	 432,536	Amer Film Tech Inc	 270,632	 275,260	Amer Greetings Corp A	  69,569	 168,416	Amer Intl Pet Corp 	  85,708	 184,616	Amer Pacific Corp 	1,210,610	1,000,184	Amer Power Convers	6,472,952	7,180,629	#America Online Inc	  93,357	  39,531	Amgen 	1,391,003	1,719,193	Ampex Inc Cl-A 	 184,286	 157,851	Amtech Corp	1,976,488	1,701,156	#Andrew Corp 	  98,977	  22,206	#Apertus Tech Inc 	  7,951	 109,858	Apple Computer Inc	1,750,508	1,771,439	#Apple South Inc 	 107,419	  35,700	Applebee's Intl Inc	 364,967	 322,043	Applied Bioscience	 265,861	 232,584	Applied Immune Sci	 283,115	 273,448	Applied Materials 	 553,713	 340,895	#Arkansas Best Corp 	 153,759	  6,105	Arkansas Best Cv Pfd	  24,550	N.L.	Artisoft Inc 	1,533,701	1,861,049	#Assoc CommunA 	  69,254	  9,439	Atlantic SE Airlines	 139,731	 161,781	Au Bon PainA 	1,043,739	1,121,740	Aura Systems Inc 	2,571,213	2,605,304	Autodesk Inc 	1,103,614	 809,988	#Automotive Inds A 	 285,183	 112,205	#Aztar Corp 	  78,824	  24,431	BBT Finl Corp 	 878,721	 888,041	BMC Software Inc 	1,792,733	2,067,058	#BPI Envir Wts A 94	  8,850	  37,800	#BPI Envir Wts B 96	  2,850	  29,300	#BTU Intl Inc 	  26,444	  2,974	Babbage's Inc 	 272,044	 378,028	Bancorpsouth Inc 	  75,376	  44,732	Bank South Corp 	 186,736	 110,960	Banyan Systems Inc	 384,098	 307,632	Base Ten Systems A	 215,328	 135,061	Basin Exploration 	  12,507	  38,665	Bell Sports Corp 	 466,969	 458,386	Ben & Jerry's Cl A	 482,663	 359,512	#Berkley W R Corp 	 115,644	  9,917	Bertucci's Inc 	 255,949	 284,970	#Big O Tires Inc 	  52,901	  2,548	Bindley Wstn Ind 	 702,411	 624,922	Biochem Pharm Inc 	 416,053	 499,391	Biogen Inc 	1,167,368	1,026,734	Biomet Inc 	2,399,035	2,083,509	Birtcher Med Sys Inc	 290,035	 335,119	Boatmen's Bancshares	 295,872	 223,129	Bob Evans Farms Inc	  95,364	 135,088	#Boomtown Inc 	  24,357	  374	Borland Intl Inc 	4,823,822	4,166,559	Boston Tech Inc 	 553,953	 505,375	Box EnergyB NV	 666,704	 570,322	Brand The 	  81,897	 143,237	Broderbund Software	 672,980	 566,154	Brunos Inc 	1,756,799	1,225,057	Buffets Inc 	2,213,847	2,382,989	Burnup & Sims Inc	 461,058	 464,867	CCOR Electronics 	  13,302	  35,515	CIS Tech Inc 	 610,443	 648,857	CNB Bancshares Inc	 189,120	 156,439	Cabot Medical Corp 	 687,677	 660,336	#Cadbury Schweppe ADR	  27,901	 182,452	#Caere Corp 	 370,304	 202,211	#Cal Microwave Inc 	  62,976	  17,544	Cambex Corp 	  54,340	  90,223	Cambridge Biotech Corp	 281,282	 310,235	Canandaigua Wine A	 248,521	 219,286	Canterbury Education	  34,550	 111,515	Canyon Resources Corp	  39,133	 108,769	#Capital Associates	  39,829	  13,346	Cardinal Distr 	2,441,638	2,388,145	Casey's Gen Stores	 345,441	 337,196	#Casino Magic Corp 	 382,603	 115,983	Catherines Stores Corp	 137,777	 105,997	Cato Corp TheA	  93,806	  54,872	Cel Sci Corp 	  64,173	  95,222	Cell Com Puerto Rico	 254,153	 197,890	Cellular CommA	 290,651	 318,703	Cellular Inc 	 689,298	 774,603	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,819,984	2,186,802	Centocor Inc 	3,343,115	4,697,680	#Centocor Inc Wts 94	  42,647	4,250	Central Bncshs South	  32,488	  98,728	Cerner Corp 	 154,258	  93,622	Charming Shoppes Inc	 503,906	 484,677	#Charter One Finl Inc	  37,442	  14,608	Checkers Drive-In 	2,270,807	2,246,448	Checkpoint Sys Inc	 344,033	 275,929	#Cherry Corp 	  3,151	  33,172	Chesapeake Energy Sa	 113,370	N.L.	Chipcom Corp 	1,030,721	1,049,211	Chiron Corp 	 909,752	 855,832	#Choice Drug Sys 	  5,400	  30,298	Cholestech Corp 	 443,032	 305,271	#Cimflex Teknowledge	  13,253	  58,988	Cincinnati Financial	 267,045	 167,193	Cintas Corp	 261,711	 249,639	Circon Corp 	1,175,344	1,208,296	#Circuit Systems Inc	  3,542	  31,224	Cirrus Logic Inc 	 508,954	 532,471	Cisco Sys Inc 	2,278,414	2,801,145	Clearly Canadian Bev	1,683,730	1,693,438	#Clothestime Inc The	  42,012	  20,706	Coastal Healthcare	  13,041	  41,576	Cocensys Inc Se	  43,750	N.L.	#Coherent Inc 	  1,957	  51,322	Collagen Corp 	 579,381	 426,786	#Collective Bancorp	 110,261	  33,887	Columbia Hospital Corp	 117,327	  86,556	Comcast Corp A 	3,096,366	2,356,953	Comcast Corp Cl A Spcl	4,810,854	4,639,507	#Comdial Corp 	  3,987	 104,601	Commerce Bcshs 	 155,544	 178,534	Compression Lab Inc	3,286,945	3,214,832	Comptronix Corp 	2,076,787	1,647,560	#Compuware Corp 	  3,171	 283,188	Concord Camera Corp 	1,225,268	1,551,562	Cons Papers Inc 	 188,759	 156,016	Consolidated Prods	  86,321	 127,366	Constellation Bncp	 392,095	 396,739	Cooker Restaurant Corp	 496,965	 405,545	Copytele Inc 	1,960,847	2,214,068	Cordis Corp 	 112,213	 317,237	Corel Corp 	 734,240	 714,053	Corestates Fin Corp 	 311,683	 307,415	Costco Wholesale Corp	2,300,851	2,143,322	Cott Corp 	 287,552	 204,100	Coventry Corp 	 107,212	 166,156	Cracker Barrel Old	 738,322	 612,514	#Craftmade Intl Inc	  24,452	 103,824	Cragin Finl Corp 	 101,980	 159,491	Cray Comp Corp 	 397,982	 394,052	#Creative Biomolecule	  24,875	  3,054	Creative Tech Ord 	 307,358	 336,495	#Crestar Finl Corp	 115,112	  29,021	Crosscomm Corp 	 585,162	 606,671	Crown Resources Corp	 293,772	 350,569	Cryomedical Sci 	1,493,815	1,548,178	#Cullen Frost Bkrs 	  30,891	  5,223	Cygnus Therapeutic	 265,859	 229,236	Cytogen Corp 	1,303,431	1,148,910	#DAKA Intl Inc 	  48,913	  9,963	DNA Plant Tech Corp 	1,080,489	1,376,977	DSC Commun Corp	3,277,116	2,573,789	Danek Gp Inc 	1,542,487	1,606,409	#Data Race Inc 	 172,151	  42,588	#Data Switch Corp 	 420,388	 229,798	Datascope Corp 	1,314,399	1,086,429	#Dauphin Deposit Corp	  8,791	  61,946	Dell Computer Corp 	4,127,250	4,616,053	Delta Queen Steamboa	  25,085	  49,804	Deprenyl Research 	 138,531	 183,235	#Designs Inc 	 209,131	  56,942	#Detection Systems 	  34,333	  2,935	#Devon Group Inc 	 155,493	  5,409	Dibrell Brothers Inc	2,314,888	2,329,586	Digital Microwave Corp	 234,569	 268,978	#Digital Prods Corp 	 333,083	 134,042	#Digital Sound Corp 	  24,991	  2,865	Dixie Yarns Inc 	 281,128	 205,787	Dollar General Corp 	 339,367	 277,795	Dominion Bkshs 	  22,184	  66,784	Dress Barn The 	 171,661	 150,216	Dreyers Grand Ice 	 154,981	  95,674	Dynatech Corp 	  13,787	  35,454	ECI Telecom Ltd 	 272,127	 162,064	#Executo N E 	 178,079	  80,019	Ezcorp Cl-A 	 319,780	 258,182	Eagle Hardware & Gdn	1,745,447	2,096,516	#Easel Corp 	 171,252	  24,151	Ecogen Inc 	 294,035	 270,001	Egghead Inc 	 259,986	 164,092	El Paso Electric Co	1,520,294	 986,584	Elec Imaging Inc 	 132,532	  87,704	#Electromedics Inc 	  34,715	  3,573	Electronic Arts Inc	1,574,434	1,887,684	Emisphere Tech Inc	 577,871	 470,441	Emulex Corp 	  10,025	  33,989	#Envir Techs Inc 	  5,633	  74,105	Envoy Corp 	 305,289	 296,363	Enzon Inc 	 357,531	 395,178	Exabyte Corp 	 412,923	 466,678	+Executive Telecard	 142,832	 335,206	#Exide Electronics Gp	  6,045	 174,271	F&C Intl Inc 	  83,282	  49,152	FHP Intl Corp 	 257,294	 219,206	#FM Properties 	  67,869	  14,860	Fastenal Co	2,432,486	2,480,909	Ferrofluidics Corp 	  51,191	  72,788	#Fibronics Intl Inc	  40,981	  9,471	Fifth Third Bncp 	 767,086	 903,237	Filene's Basement Corp	 148,759	 198,138	#Filenet Corp 	 226,182	  80,665	#Finish LineA 	  49,265	  8,617	#First Amer Financial	 281,334	  60,430	+First Commerce Corp La	 633,728	 630,795	#First Commerce Pfd	  26,977	  3,485	#First Commercial L R	  1,850	  37,212	First Hawaiian Inc	  64,153	 133,425	First Pacific Ntwks	 703,647	 535,402	#First State Finl Svc	  26,026	  4,032	First Team Sports 	 263,200	 261,268	#First Tenn Natl Corp	 107,393	  56,413	Food Lion IncA	1,898,222	1,165,403	Food Lion IncB	 371,841	 385,519	Forest Oil Corp 	1,046,978	1,130,356	#Fortune Bancorp 	 178,433	  94,065	Fourth Financial Corp	 193,646	 226,158	Frame Tech Corp 	 752,770	1,066,834	#Framingham Savs Bk	 103,890	  54,491	#Franklin Elct Publis	 241,988	 133,276	Fresh Choice Inc 	 103,615	  60,120	#GBC Bancorp 	  7,397	  32,267	Gendex Corp. 	 415,158	 451,227	#Garnet Resources Corp	  2,520	  31,395	#Gates/FA Distributin	 113,976	  9,527	Gen Nutrition Cos 	  81,995	N.L.	Genetics Inst Dep Sh	 656,448	 641,330	Gensia Pharm Inc 	2,773,260	2,432,164	Gentex Corp 	1,053,865	1,245,205	#Genus Inc 	  26,033	  2,300	Genzyme Corp 	1,826,830	2,649,362	Giddings Lewis Inc	2,196,621	2,065,217	Gilead Sciences Inc	  45,778	  67,945	Glycomed Inc 	 242,373	 220,030	#Good Guys Inc The	 217,688	 100,209	Goulds Pumps Inc 	  92,663	  57,735	#Govt Tech Svcs 	 110,416	  17,292	Grancare Inc 	 294,378	 179,948	Grand Casinos Inc 	 897,602	 624,475	Great Amer Commun Co	 667,588	 673,449	#Great Amer Rec Inc	  30,002	 162,316	Greenwich Pharm Inc	2,686,469	2,415,763	Groundwater Tech Inc	 508,734	 610,004	Gupta Corp Sa	 210,951	N.L.	HBO & Co. 	 111,879	 138,113	#Hamburger Hamlet 	 167,860	  4,726	Hauser Chem Research	 207,367	 340,649	Healthcare Compare	 940,687	1,258,024	#Healthcare Imaging	  710	  30,402	Healthcare Svcs Gp	1,556,151	1,276,865	Healthdyne Inc 	1,174,774	1,093,986	Healthinfusion Inc	 810,313	 835,333	Heart Tech Inc 	 329,327	 352,039	Hechinger CoA 	 177,417	 243,307	Herbalife Intl 	 617,187	 591,150	Hitox Corp Of America	  9,102	  31,238	#Hogan Systems Inc 	 584,884	 213,352	#Homecare Mgmt Inc 	  85,177	  37,854	Homedco Gp Inc 	 256,637	 270,549	#Hornbeck Offshore 	 118,190	  2,896	Huntington Bcshs 	 388,964	 259,141	Hutchinson Tech Inc	 127,126	  99,434	ICOS Corp 	 539,991	 558,705	#ICU Medical Inc 	  54,024	  3,085	IDB Commun Gp Inc 	 208,750	 147,101	IHOP Corp. 	 676,887	 763,584	Interso L V 	  32,364	  91,755	Immune Response Corp	1,974,444	1,613,976	Immunex Corp 	1,648,439	1,958,635	#Immunex Corp Wts	  89,625	  23,858	Immunomedics Inc 	 629,056	 452,026	+Imperial Bancorp 	 708,371	 629,667	#Imperial Credit Inds	  17,753	  75,340	Info Resources Inc	 345,148	 275,430	Informix Corp 	 737,782	 887,951	Ins Auto Auctions 	 334,879	 356,926	+Insituform Midamer A	  70,978	 134,135	Integrated Devic Tec	 523,615	 602,343	Integrated Hlth Svcs	 358,164	 285,462	Integrated Waste Svc	 194,977	 245,870	Intel Corp 	1,036,555	1,388,459	Intelligent Elec 	 375,225	 422,366	Interactive Network	 726,693	 496,292	Interface Inc A 	 893,519	 883,521	Intergraph Corp 	 992,567	 959,015	#Intergroup Healthcar	  29,405	  597	Interneuron Pharm 	 827,549	 821,886	#Interprovin Pipe Sys	  95,365	  1,083	Intervoice Inc 	 198,900	 264,788	Intl Cablecasting 	 467,284	 512,002	Intl Dairy Queen A	  85,961	 251,433	JB Hunt Trans Svcs	 277,514	 243,899	J Baker Inc 	2,315,470	1,880,869	JJ Snack Foods 	  12,873	  42,535	#Jennifer Convertible	  73,143	 623,305	#Jones Intercable Inc	  1,673	  25,864	Jones Intrcable A 	 371,449	 371,102	#Kaiser Steel Resourc	 242,391	  19	#Kaydon Corp 	  37,354	  13,558	Kelley Oil Corp 	 366,607	 281,869	#Kendall Intl Inc 	  81,036	  36,857	#Kendall Square Resch	 203,027	  74,152	Kentucky Central A	 993,726	1,027,090	Key Centurion Bcshs	 104,386	 152,322	#Knowledgeware Inc 	 208,099	  23,796	#Komag Inc 	 361,213	  87,721	#Kopin Corp 	  37,150	  12,752	Kushner Locke Co 	  30,190	  92,497	#+LDDS CommA 	1,125,857	 626,192	LM Ericsson Tel ADR	4,399,227	4,254,968	#LTX Corp. 	  64,363	  30,601	Lam Research Corp 	 359,811	 400,198	#Lancaster Colony Corp	  45,515	  18,216	Lannet Data Comm Ord	 290,653	 305,185	#Lattice Semiconduct	  50,729	  26,772	Lawson Products Inc	 244,701	 180,700	Learning Co (The) 	 254,836	 212,731	Lechters Inc 	 861,628	 636,210	Legent Corp 	1,172,630	 956,379	Lep Gp Adr 	  55,956	 148,242	Lifecore Biomedical	 349,051	 308,359	Lin Broadcasting Corp	 255,731	 210,385	Linear Technology Corp	 113,633	 160,353	Liposome 	1,288,712	 740,353	Liposome Tech Inc 	 352,892	 267,157	Littelfuse Inc 	 630,848	 621,840	#Littelfuse Inc Wts	  27,428	  5,128	#Little Switzerland	  5,765	  34,554	Loewen Group Inc 	 381,707	 361,014	Lone Star Steakhouse	1,643,816	1,574,637	Longhorn Steaks Inc	 372,647	 337,683	Lotus Development Corp	1,687,331	2,257,489	#Loyola Capital Corp 	  2,044	  37,819	#MB Comm Inc 	  94,914	  41,385	MCI Comm Corp 	1,140,039	1,451,497	MTC Elec Tech Ltd 	 699,210	 496,253	Macmillan Bloedel 	 980,424	2,551,326	#Magainin Pharmace 	  62,572	  4,780	Magma Power Co	 361,749	 302,769	Mail Boxes Etc 	1,868,221	1,857,879	#Main St & Main Inc	 337,692	  18,419	Marcam Corp 	 304,549	 191,084	#Marine Drilling Co	  105	  33,655	Mark Twain Bcshs 	 103,739	  62,886	Marquest Med Prod 	 343,734	 355,619	Masco Inds 	  68,848	 111,369	Maxicare Hlth New 	 800,209	 682,157	Maxtor Corp 	 432,821	 351,312	#Mayflower Group Inc	  10,489	  88,868	McAfee Associates 	 725,444	 855,107	McCaw Cellular A 	 728,345	 581,699	McCormick Co NV 	 163,720	 193,909	#Meadowbrook Reh Cl-A	  2,178	  27,884	Medaphis Corp 	 172,829	 117,437	Medco Containmnt 	4,173,015	4,570,777	#Medex Inc 	  95,880	  24,823	#Media Vision Inc 	 318,921	  67,837	Medical Marketing Gp	1,229,074	1,331,385	#Medical Tech Sys Inc	  44,599	  401	Medicine Shoppe Intl	 919,590	 933,767	Medicis PharmA	 122,601	 222,220	#Medicus Sys Corp 	  161	  22,579	Medimmune Inc 	 311,797	 268,571	Medstat Systems Inc	 610,385	 428,351	#Megafoods Stores Inc	  78,658	  10,708	#Memorex Telex NV Adr	  47,050	  18,016	Mentor Corp The 	 801,511	1,075,751	Mentor Graphics Corp	 704,200	 940,527	#Meridian Bncp Inc 	 203,053	  68,704	Meris Labs Inc 	 250,900	 329,522	Merisel Inc 	 363,718	 322,690	+Methode Electronic A	  16,203	  39,500	Miami Subs Corp 	 170,421	 376,570	Michael Foods Inc 	1,979,184	1,832,236	Michaels Stores Inc	1,967,685	1,407,651	Michigan Natl Corp 	 277,829	 253,252	Micro Bio-Medics Inc	  40,719	 127,944	Micro Healthsys Inc	 545,887	 521,788	#Microage Inc 	 122,376	  11,118	#Microprose Inc 	 332,498	 109,270	Microsoft Corp 	3,042,301	2,206,752	Mid Atlantic Medical	 540,194	 340,012	Midlantic Corp 	1,033,021	1,650,547	#Midsouth Corp 	  2,720	  55,667	#Miles Homes Inc 	  0	  39,712	Miller Herman Inc 	  37,374	 110,263	Mobile Telecomm Tech	4,163,492	3,727,316	#Mohawk Inds Inc 	35,078	  8,055	Molecular Dynamc Sa	  23,200	N.L.	Molex Inc 	 756,454	 593,943	Molex IncA 	  38,700	  72,422	Morrison Restaurant	 131,961	 246,224	Multibank Fin Corp 	 241,295	 205,207	Multimedia Inc 	  81,105	 127,308	NAC Re Corp 	 516,758	 340,121	NESB Corp. 	 174,711	 127,273	#Nycal Corp. 	  73,372	  8,962	Nam Tai Electronics	  52,701	  85,838	#Natl Community Bks	 256,254	 124,165	Natl Data Corp 	  27,776	  75,871	#Natl Loan Bk In Liq	  28,650	  124	Natl Vision Assoc 	1,756,313	1,146,266	Natural Wonders 	 270,895	 340,870	#Nature Food Centers	 113,012	  61,869	Nature's Bounty Inc	 315,687	 236,700	#+Nature's Sunshine 	  15,321	  85,657	Nellcor Inc 	 188,461	 128,973	#Neoprobe Corp Wts E 96	  3,978	  67,058	Neorx Corp 	 778,190	 813,424	Net F R A M E System	 345,742	 293,372	#Netrix Corp 	  72,345	  22,849	Network General Corp	2,014,285	1,156,650	#Network Systems Corp	 948,673	 429,275	Networth Inc 	 206,201	 246,675	#Neurogen Corp 	  9,591	  76,788	Neutrogena Corp 	 449,848	 319,238	New England Business	 158,102	 113,822	#New Image Inds Inc	 303,459	  76,139	Newbridge Netwks Corp	 246,452	 163,512	#Newpark Res Inc 	  37,299	  14,688	Noble Drilling Corp 	1,391,375	1,307,379	Noise Cancellation	2,262,269	2,350,750	Norand Corp Sa	 246,171	N.L.	Nordstrom Inc 	 728,746	 656,030	Northeast Bncp 	 179,952	 416,847	Northern Tr Corp 	 140,441	 102,170	Novell Inc 	3,274,377	2,094,004	#Novellus Systems Inc	 233,363	  87,225	#Ntwk Computing Dev	 116,489	  23,118	Octel Commun Corp 	 449,229	 674,110	#Offshore Log 	  40,638	  13,104	Ohio Bncp Youngstown	 177,996	 156,967	+Old Natl Bncp 	 168,140	 323,877	Onbancorp Inc 	 416,554	 373,328	#+One Valley Bncp W Va	  22,295	 197,786	Optical Data Systems	  30,363	  52,622	Oracle Systems Corp 	 890,116	1,212,110	Orbital Sciences Corp	  13,000	  34,210	#Orion Pictures Corp Wi	 106,243	  4,560	Outback Steakhouse	3,082,443	2,930,926	#Outlook Graphics Corp	 183,346	  49,664	PDK Labs Inc 	 448,077	 462,115	#PDK Labs Wts B 97 	  59,380	  14,100	Platinum Tech 	 222,982	 377,235	Paccar Inc 	 125,048	  89,431	Pacificare HlthA	 676,331	 529,459	Paging Network Inc	 353,666	 336,258	Parametric Tech Corp	1,514,724	1,107,557	Penril Datacomm Ntwk	 363,114	 359,126	Pentair Inc 	 664,551	 565,303	Pentech Intl Inc 	 214,426	 182,913	Peoples Heri Fin Gp	 536,748	 896,284	#Peoples Westchstr Bk	 133,625	  28,338	Peoplesoft Inc 	 111,789	  71,813	Perfumania Inc 	  56,840	 155,670	Perrigo Company 	  98,684	 155,740	#Perseptive Biosys 	 138,343	  62,668	#Pharmaceutical Mktg	 168,621	  39,247	Pharmacy Mgmt Svc 	 129,359	 166,170	#Phoenix Re Corp 	 706,306	 401,487	#Phoenix Tech Ltd 	 122,105	  25,393	Phycor Inc 	 498,049	 335,175	Picturetel Corp 	1,594,067	1,568,501	#Pioneer Gp Inc The	  7,398	  45,700	Platinum Software Corp	 124,190	  74,600	#Players Intl Inc 	 102,346	  56,602	#Plaza Home Mtge Corp	  67,395	  38,422	Ponder Inds 	 162,447	 184,828	Powersoft Corp Sa	  61,556	N.L.	Premier Anesthesia	 256,030	 205,584	#Pres Riverboat Casin	 314,204	  91,713	Presidential Life Corp	 337,078	 311,256	Presstek Inc 	 512,434	 513,546	Price Co The 	2,255,417	2,363,526	Primedex Health Sys	 250,852	 250,750	Production Oper 	 817,978	 979,619	Proteon Inc 	 195,679	 229,775	#+Provident Bncp Inc	  481	  52,497	Proxima Corp Sa	  23,750	N.L.	#Pure Tech Intl 	 725,267	 390,143	Puritan Bennett Corp	1,066,111	1,232,929	Pyramid Technology	 142,276	 196,293	Pyxis Corp 	 448,875	 266,458	Qualcomm Inc 	 686,954	1,071,922	Quadrex Corp 	 487,779	 487,217	Quality Food Centers	 126,383	 228,444	Quantum Corp 	4,171,579	3,795,617	Quantum Hlth Res Inc	  65,442	 124,390	#Quantum Restaurant	 685,752	 332,597	#Quixote Corp 	  62,508	17,191	RPM Inc 	1,448,133	1,515,180	Rally's Inc 	1,766,528	2,236,301	Rasterops 	  14,600	  54,857	Read-Rite Corp 	 882,574	 810,589	Regal Comm Corp 	 133,008	 103,952	Repap Enterprises Corp	 510,434	 507,306	#Repossession Auct Wt	  2,175	  66,225	Republic Bancorp Inc	 297,874	 282,459	Research Industries	 294,041	 318,551	Retix 	  75,886	 145,068	Reuters Hldg Adr	1,453,912	1,551,744	Ribi Immunochem 	 300,905	 315,170	Riggs Natl Corp The 	 312,256	 416,811	Rio Hotel & Casino	 103,069	 201,174	Roadway Services Inc	 325,529	 355,348	Roberts Pharm Corp 	 588,495	 663,507	Roosevelt Finl Group	  69,086	  46,098	Roses Stores Inc 	 355,237	 267,446	Ross Cosmetics Dist	 867,872	 783,977	Ross Stores Inc 	 268,025	 177,710	Rouse Co 	1,745,224	2,406,091	Ryan's Family Steak	  46,924	  76,255	#Safeco Corp. 	 425,260	 228,046	SCI Systems Inc 	4,713,774	3,901,048	#SEEQ Technology 	  80,435	  31,810	SEI Corp. 	  33,242	  60,207	SGI International 	1,642,496	1,669,167	SLM Intl Inc 	  70,826	  45,768	#Softima G E 	  58,762	  21,238	Steri's Cp 	 130,889	 107,342	Sam & Libby Inc 	  83,260	  58,298	#Schuler Homes Inc 	 225,687	  95,185	#Schulman A Inc 	 374,592	 121,326	Sciclone Pharma Inc	 411,320	 355,402	Scimed Life Sys Inc	2,147,543	3,126,358	Scios Nova Inc 	  38,089	  61,569	Scitex Corp 	 344,351	 393,773	Score Board Inc The	1,113,541	1,066,690	Scotts Co Cl-A	 112,863	 177,338	#Seagate Tech 	2,125,289	1,016,585	Selective Ins Gp Inc	  53,739	  84,590	Sequent Computer Sys	 518,741	 561,577	Sequoia Systems Inc	 129,524	 100,491	Sierra On Line Inc	 535,852	 554,093	Sierra Semiconductor	 195,746	 288,008	Silicon Valley Bncsh	 409,564	 446,870	Smithfield Foods Inc	 466,694	 293,932	#Snapple Beverage Corp	1,316,381	 550,681	#Society For Sav Bncp	  45,039	  20,543	Software Publishing	 165,269	 128,615	#Software Spectrum 	  10,725	87,813	Software Toolwks Inc	 218,768	 184,168	#Somatix Therapy Corp	 151,082	  71,457	Somatogen Inc 	2,093,030	2,040,121	#Somerset Savings Bk	  75,412	  29,294	Sonic Corp 	 129,489	 200,980	#Sonoco Products Co	  81,240	  42,653	Southtrust Corp 	 539,372	 551,016	#Sovereign Bancorp 	 191,005	1,344,773	Spartan Motors Inc	  55,286	 108,141	Spectranetics Corp The	 290,935	 298,542	Spectrum Info Tech	 509,765	 329,954	#Sports & Recreation	 203,269	  81,329	Sportstown Inc 	  88,970	  63,715	St Jude Medical Inc	 820,935	 647,235	#St Paul Bancorp Inc	  73,647	  12,598	Standard Microsystem	  54,787	 100,044	Staples Inc 	1,052,697	2,106,422	Starbucks Corp 	1,299,101	1,165,741	#State of the Art Inc	  48,225	  13,202	State Street Boston	 996,130	 584,875	#Stein Mart Inc 	 204,117	  69,730	#Stewart EnterprA	  57,924	  14,902	#Stokely USA Inc. 	  58,389	  15,103	#Stolt Tanks Terminal	  28,970	  3,642	Stratacom Inc 	 175,701	 101,257	Structural Dynamics	 946,100	1,034,099	Stryker Corp 	2,443,387	2,526,735	Summit Bncp (The) NJ	  74,499	 129,333	Summit Tech Inc 	2,910,032	2,861,856	Sun Microsystems Inc	3,272,792	4,197,953	#Sun Television & App	  56,400	  20,268	Sungard Data Systems	1,180,833	 878,890	Sunrise Tech Inc 	 530,224	 570,237	Sunward Tech Inc 	  11,249	  40,663	Supermac Tech Inc 	  91,827	 132,206	#Swing-N-Slide Corp 	  28,513	  7,001	Sybase Inc 	1,319,209	 840,994	Synergen Inc 	 818,665	 691,537	Synetic Inc 	 298,910	 281,645	Synopsys Inc 	 347,516	 313,937	Synoptics Commun Inc	 626,314	 590,264	Syquest Tech Inc 	 188,356	 361,098	#Syratech Corp 	 197,355	 103,145	#System Software 	1,873,335	1,035,615	Systemed Inc 	 474,921	 484,537	TPI Enterprises 	2,624,158	2,204,752	TRM Copy Ctrs Corp 	 427,260	 385,565	#T Rowe Price Assoc	  93,100	  49,111	TSI Corp. 	 177,315	 226,449	TSL Holdings Inc 	 362,686	 331,565	TW Holdings Inc 	1,873,184	2,052,842	#Taco Cabana Inc Cl-A	  65,235	  36,666	Takecare Inc 	  51,650	  92,101	#Tech Data Corp 	  50,413	  14,652	Techne Corp 	 120,226	  70,049	#Teknekron Commun Sys	  9,931	  71,273	Tele Commun Inc A 	10,432,708	8,002,032	Telios Pharma Inc 	 261,122	 254,677	Telxon Corp 	 984,928	 741,270	Teva Pharm Ind ADR	 473,386	 342,921	#The Buckle Inc 	  81,525	  31,307	Thomas Nelson Inc 	 363,204	 349,229	Thorn Apple Valley	  48,085	 183,421	Tokos Med Corp Del 	5,614,569	5,258,571	#Tom Brown Inc 	  63,880	  7,218	Topps The 	 664,717	1,482,476	#Tops Appliance City	  51,236	  14,916	Total Pharm Care Inc	 173,233	 221,445	Trenwick Group Inc	 289,318	 238,546	Trimble Navigation	1,377,401	1,322,143	Trimedyne Inc 	 352,523	 491,471	#Trust Co Bncp The 	  17,612	  79,193	Tseng Labs Inc 	2,138,572	1,965,542	Tyson Foods IncA	 542,089	 637,459	UNR Inds Inc 	 117,692	 344,398	USA Waste Service 	 344,450	 302,710	US Bancorp Oregon 	 289,108	 380,040	US Healthcare Inc 	2,385,684	2,604,491	US Long Distance Corp	 164,401	 391,872	#US Robotics Inc 	  2,774	 284,509	#UST Corp. 	  93,768	  18,675	#Unilab Corp 	 234,004	  80,703	Union Bk 	 222,024	 282,700	#United Gaming Inc 	  53,842	  22,813	United N M Fin Corp 	 483,699	 471,120	#United Retail Gp Inc	  47,432	  10,867	Valence Tech Inc 	 538,669	 605,614	Vanguard Cellular A	 236,631	 284,713	Ventritex Inc 	 392,020	 425,210	#Verifone Inc 	 230,147	  92,570	#Vertex Commun Corp 	 116,464	  29,846	Vestar Inc 	 374,985	 334,703	Vicor Corp 	 390,204	 409,232	#Video Lottery Tech	1,002,543	 305,894	Videocart Inc 	2,901,601	2,762,136	Viewlogic Systems 	1,017,507	 962,891	#Viking Office Prods	 315,334	 137,794	#Vision Sciences Inc	 286,055	 133,278	WPP Gp Adr 	1,611,176	2,160,267	Walker Interactive	  29,889	 107,253	#Wall Street Deli Inc	  6,753	  31,740	#Washington Fed Sv Ln	  74,998	  26,887	Washington Mut Sv Bk	 864,302	1,541,399	#+Wausau Paper Mills	  13,014	  80,034	#Webster Fin Corp 	  51,337	  1,859	#Weitek Corp 	 148,210	  77,470	Wellfleet Commun Inc	2,385,801	3,083,739	Werner Enterprises	  11,401	  32,983	West One Bancorp 	 372,175	 405,675	Westcott Comm 	 443,525	 374,827	Westwood One Inc 	1,383,553	1,335,785	Whole Foods Market	 333,967	 335,708	Willamette Inds Inc	 402,136	 307,848	William Sonoma Inc	 107,565	 135,256	Wolf Financial Gp 	  31,690	 111,301	#Wordstar Intl Inc 	 198,700	  99,841	Worthington Inds Inc	 141,893	 100,673	Wyman Gordon Co 	  20,966	  61,247	Xoma Corp. 	1,615,119	2,571,559	X Rite Inc 	  58,433	  84,075	Xilinx Inc 	1,800,891	2,088,351	Xircom Inc 	 105,059	 169,452	Yellow Freight Del	 591,155	 639,561	York Research Corp 	2,739,567	3,090,960	Zeos Intl Ltd 	 859,354	 843,089	Zilog Inc 	  55,993	  83,372	#Zoll Medical Corp 	 443,947	 242,628	Other Nasdaq	 	 	#Acorn Venture Cap Corp	  5,565	  41,160	Adv Mammography Sys	 203,600	N.L.	Advanced Enviro A 	 189,107	 158,958	Advanced Nmr Sys Inc	 252,200	 257,650	#Aerial Assault Wts	  0	  33,840	#Ag Bag Intl Ltd	  423	 118,516	#Air-Cure Envirn Wts	  1,770	  41,100	Alco Intl Gp Inc 	1,085,662	1,058,714	#Alpha 1 Biomedicals	 133,878	  24,360	Amdura Corp Wts 	  21,809	N.L.	#Amer Biomed Inc 	 130,903	  15,723	Amer Enterprises Inc	  22,525	  0	Amer West Airline 	 606,026	 555,978	#American Complex 	  3,190	  26,514	#Anglo Swiss Inds Inc	  3,850	  44,403	#Aquanatural Co Wt 97	  0	  51,815	Armanino Foods 	  45,200	  67,248	Armanino Foods Wts	  36,350	  0	Artagraph Reprod 	 143,415	 106,093	#Barringer Techs Inc	  32,800	  512	Biocontrol Tech Inc	 155,357	 244,428	#Biomech Corp of Amer	 145,780	  77,293	#Blyvooruitzicht ADR	 113,958	  5,246	CAPX Corp (Del) 	  51,379	 100,288	Cal Fed Bank Wts 94	 552,507	 583,897	Capucino's Inc 	  10,046	  33,000	Chantal Pharm Corp 	 118,650	 150,617	City Investing Uts	 101,678	 250,000	+Clinicorp Inc 	 500,096	 444,324	Comverse Tech Inc 	  27,294	  97,120	Conesco Inds Ltd 	  84,200	  0	#Cornucopia Res Ltd	  38,532	  2,300	Cortex Pharm Inc 	 288,427	 297,777	#Credit Depot Corp 	 137,600	  62,698	#Diamond Entertain Corp	  63,790	 320,210	#Direct Connect Intl	  38,665	  5	#Dollar Time Gp Inc	  47,115	N.L.	Dresdner Ag Sp ADR	1,045,050	1,029,765	Education Alternativ	 320,986	 341,908	#Elec Clearing House	  32,313	  9,926	#Equivest Finance Inc	  72,050	  100	Eshed Robotec 1982	  23,121	  0	#Exploration Co The	  1,707	 100,000	#Fairhaven Intl ADR	  0	 218,700	Fiberchem Inc 	 482,087	 764,415	#Finl Data Sys Inc 	  5,304	  81,484	#Fonar Corporation 	  6,267	  31,759	Fonic Inc 	 126,163	  74,607	Fountain Pharm 	  18,266	  63,800	Future Med Prods 	34,241	  90,388	GB Foods Corp 	 131,973	 104,847	#Gaming Devices Fund	 122,123	  37,323	#Geotek Inds Inc 	 387,037	  64,100	#Gerant Inds Inc 	  5,900	 554,640	#Gracecare Hlth Sys	  5,285	 103,440	Great Amer Rec Pfd	  40,050	  0	#HEI Inc 	  488	  38,451	#Harmony Holdings Inc	 666,775	  76,390	#Intek Divrsified 	  42,977	3,700	#Imaging Mgmt Assocs	  25,789	  700	Imre Corp 	  26,674	  58,480	Info Mgmt Techs A 	  41,361	  72,021	#Innovet Inc 	  6,339	  38,800	#Insta Cool Inc 	  84,653	  5,109	#Intl Bus Schls Wt 93	  0	 120,605	Invitro Intl 	  37,867	  68,689	#Istec Inds Tech Ltd	  30,011	  8,896	#JMAR Inds Inc 	  98,580	  29,668	#Jackpot Entertnmt Wt	  958	  23,735	#Kinder Care Learning	 151,647	  14,768	Lasersight Inc 	 107,079	 142,988	#Lasertechnics Inc 	  24,055	 129,877	#Latex Resources Inc	  3,750	  27,450	#Lidak PharmA 	  77,799	  7,821	#Lukens Medical Corp 	  0	  61,332	Marcum Natural Gas	  28,785	 107,714	#Markitstar Inc 	  3,918	  25,990	#Metalclad Corp 	 122,108	  33,055	#Microcarb Inc Uts 97	  200	 185,500	Musicsource Uts Se	  25,600	N.L.	Macrochem Corporation	  52,712	  30,683	Natec Resources 	 132,289	 154,606	New Day Bev Uts Se	  39,000	N.L.	New Day Bev Wts Se	  20,980	N.L.	New Day Beverage Se	  24,590	N.L.	News Commun Inc 	  55,737	 190,006	Non Invasive Mon Sys	 129,462	  81,490	#Ntwk Equip Tech Wts	  5,500	  33,192	#Nyer Medical Group	  2,150	  23,500	#Omega Environ Wts B	 214,169	  87,360	Omega Environment 	 190,811	 369,487	On-Gard Systems Inc	  48,430	  75,475	#Ophthalmic Imaging	  49,044	  18,728	#Personal Diag Inc 	 107,383	  2,445	#Pharmetics Inc 	 117,294	  703	#Quadrax Corp 	  7,444	 102,709	Response Usa A Wt 97	  23,385	  44,985	#Response Usa Inc 	  7,200	  33,646	Roadmaster Inds Inc	  19,172	  58,638	#Robern Industries 	  107	  32,423	Royce Laboratories	 338,626	 308,203	#Ryka Inc 	 151,326	  69,587	SOI Inds 	  13,395	  40,035	Scientific Meas Sys	  21,097	  0	#Scorpion Tech Cl-A	 221,968	  54,107	Senetek Adr 	 257,300	 273,700	Sherwood Corp 	  10,152	  39,750	#Silver King Comm Inc	 202,403	N.L.	#Silverado Mines Ltd	  33,700	  11,350	Simtek Corporation	 159,760	 131,852	Site Based Media Inc	2,476,154	1,459,899	#Solv Ex Corp 	 181,134	  95,638	Southland Corp 	1,676,045	1,542,293	Sports of Kings Inc	  67,090	  90,070	Starstream Commun Gp	  65,000	  0	#Topro Inc 	  5,098	  30,862	#Technigen Corp A 	  3,401	 120,011	#Technology Research	  46,116	  20,403	Teletek Inc 	  41,989	  92,121	Tellus Inds Inc 	  7,994	  29,015	#Touchstone Wts B 95	  38,450	  6,950	#Trans Global Res ADR	  900	  58,364	#Trinity A Wts 	  45,105	  800	#US Tech Inc 	  0	  43,100	#Univ Self Care Inc	  5,523	  80,625	#Univ Self Care Wts A	  0	  53,750	#Univ Self Care Wts B	  750	  29,525	#Vaal Reefs Explr ADR	 180,712	  61,404	#Ventura Entertain 	  33,235	 329,911	Vimrx Pharm Inc 	 268,652	 323,873	Vital Heart Sys Inc	 290,271	 290,013	#Vystar Group Inc 	  37,801	  4,568	WTD Inds 	  51,401	  76,007	#Wesco Auto Parts Corp	  25,145	  1,400	#Western Deep Lvl ADR	  39,964	  13,686	#Western Pac Res Corp	 201,538	  21,038	Wholesome Hearty Wts	  22,663	  0	Wisconsin Pharmacal	 412,246	 381,918	#Xscribe Corp 	 139,969	  33,403	
 
Short Sales Tables Explained
 These tables show issues with a short interest position in the current month of at least 250,000 shares or a change up or down from the previous month of at least 20,961 shares.
 Cover ratio represents the number of days, at average volume level, that it would take to purchase the number of shares sold short.
 T -- National Market System.
 N.L. -- Not listed.
 + -- Stock split.
 * May have been affected by arbitrage transactions resulting from any one or more of the following: proposed or pending acquisitions; convertible securities of the same company; rights offerings; stock splits or distributions; tenders; other special situations.
 Short interest may also be affected by options positions.
 # Indicates a change of 75 percent or more from the previous month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: NOVL (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATIC QUOTATIONS NOVELL INC (60%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATIC QUOTATIONS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); FLORIDA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING SALES FIGURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



731 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields Are Slightly Lower On Money Market Funds

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Money market fund yields were off slightly last week, as investors, confused by monetary and fiscal policy in Washington, sought safety in money funds.
"The large inflow into money market funds is coming from the stock market and is just being parked temporarily," said Walter Frank, chief economist at The Money Fund Report, an Ashland, Mass., newsletter. 
 The assets of taxable money funds rose $16.4 billion, to $494.1 billion, in the week ended Monday. Institutions supplied $9.2 billion of the increase, swelling institutional money fund assets to $176.8 billion.
Yields edged down a bit. The seven-day simple yield for all taxable money funds declined 2 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 2.69 percent. The seven-day compounded yield also declined 2 basis points, to 2.73 percent. The 30-day simple yield fell 2 basis points, to 2.72 percent, and the 30-day compounded yield also dropped 2 basis points, to 2.76 percent. The average days to maturity of securities held in taxable portfolios remained unchanged at 61 days.
 
Top Funds
 The highest-yielding general purpose taxable money fund in the week was the Dreyfus Basic Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compounded yield of 3.56 percent. The fund is distributed by the Dreyfus Service Corporation of New York.
The highest-yielding government-only fund was United Services Government Securities Savings, with a seven-day compounded yield of 3.63 percent. The fund is distributed by United Services Advisers Inc. in San Antonio.
Tax-exempt yields also slipped a bit in the week, while total assets inched up only $42 million, to $102.6 billion.
The average seven-day simple tax-exempt yield declined by 4 basis points, to 1.88 percent, near a record low, and the seven-day compounded yield was 1.90, also down by 4 basis points.
The 30-day simple yield was 1.97 percent, down 3 basis points from the previous week, and the 30-day compound yield was 1.99 percent, also down 3 basis points. The average maturity was 51 days, down 2 days from the previous week.
In Connecticut, the top-yielding tax-exempt fund was the Fidelity Spartan Connecticut Municipal Money Market Portfolio, with a seven-day compounded yield of 2.21 percent. The top New Jersey fund was the Vanguard New Jersey Tax-Free/Money Market Portfolio, with a seven-day compounded yield of 2.35 percent. The top New York fund was the Salomon Brothers New York Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compounded yield of 2.19 percent.
The top tax-exempt fund with assets of more than $100 million was the Evergreen Tax Exempt Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compounded yield of 2.63 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" shows seven-day taxable yield and index of money market accounts from 11/92 to 2/93 (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Maturities" shows days to maturity of securities in money market mutual fund portfolios from 5/92 to 2/93 (Source: Money Fund Report)
 
Chart: "REGIONAL BANK RATES"
 Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on February 24, 1993 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	2.45	2.87	Los Angeles	2.66	2.89	Chicago	2.72	3.01	San Francisco	2.66	2.83	Philadelphia	2.72	2.88	Detroit	2.85	2.98	Boston	2.77	3.06	Houston	2.68	3.14	Dallas	2.69	3.11	Washington	2.73	3.22	Bank Rate Monitor Index* 2.69	3.00	 	

*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (54%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BONDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



732 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Clinton's plan pales before the 900-pound health-care gorilla.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
A MAJORITY of Americans polled thinks President Clinton's economic plan is just dandy. And why not? While both the Senate Finance Committee chairman, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, and the Republican leadership may hear the clatter of Mr. Clinton's no-middle-class-tax pledge being thrown out the window, the dominant sound is a collective sigh of relief that the President is asking for less than a dollar a day from the typical family.
The catch is that the dollar is only "a modest down payment," in the words of Henry Aaron, an economist at the Brookings Institution. Health care is the 900-pound gorilla of deficit finance. And unless Washington curbs the animal's appetite or sharply raises taxes to keep it supplied with bananas -- or both -- the deficit will break records by the end of the century. 
 For all the talk of sacrifice, the Clinton plan would not exact much from the average American. The proposed income tax increases are limited to the tiny fraction of families whose earnings exceed $140,000, even after they subtract mortgage interest, state and local taxes, charitable contributions and catastrophic medical bills.
The bite on Social Security pensions would be limited to couples with taxable incomes exceeding $32,000, with most paying only an extra $30 or $40 a month. And though the energy tax would touch everyone, the touch would be as light as a pickpocket's: Few families would ante up more than an extra $150 a year directly, along with perhaps an equal sum in higher prices for goods and services made with energy.
The only big losers would be the rich, who did very nicely thank you during the 1980's, along with a variety of interests -- everyone from bee keepers to timber harvesters on Federal land -- who depend heavily on Government largess.
One group more likely to elicit public sympathy, employees of military contractors, would certainly be hurt by the accelerated build-down in defense. But these generally affluent and skilled workers should have an easier time than the blue-collar workers in the Rust Belt who lost their jobs in the 1980's.
Still, the plan is sufficient to reduce the 1996 deficit projected by the Congressional Budget Office from $287 billion to $205 billion. And as Robert Gordon of Northwestern University points out, this level of deficit spending would be manageable indefinitely in the sense that the growth in the national debt would no longer be faster than the likely growth of national income.
Why, then, the gloom and doom? Because the package offers no way to hold the line past 1996. Unless programs are changed radically, the Budget Office expects health-care outlays to triple by 2003, to a whopping $672 billion.
"Even if we win the health inflation war," Robert Reischauer, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, believes "the fruits of victory" will not show up on the budget until the next century.
Medicare for the elderly currently covers only 90 percent of its cost to hospitals, while Medicaid for the poor covers just 80 percent. Hospitals make up the difference by overcharging private insurers by an average of 28 percent. And since any broad reform is likely to level the playing field, the portion of the national health bill underwritten by Government is bound to rise.
Second, 35 million Americans are now uninsured. Some will no doubt pay their own way under a system of universal coverage. But the great majority are working poor, and will have to be subsidized heavily by Uncle Sam.
Mr. Reischauer also points out that any package of minimum benefits offered under national health insurance will almost certainly be extended to the retired elderly as well. And since Medicare is currently a "bare bones" system that, for example, lacks provisions for long-term care, it is all but certain that Washington will expand subsidized services to the elderly.
Keeping the budget deficit in the $200 billion ballpark until cost containment pays off is thus likely to take hundreds rather than tens of billions of dollars in new revenue annually. And such sums could not be raised by clipping the rich or tacking a few more pennies onto the price of gasoline.
Jimmy Carter would like to collect a piece of it with a $2-a-pack tax on cigarettes. Many health economists favor the taxation of at least part of the insurance benefits provided by employers. Still others, among them Mr. Aaron, favor a dedicated "value added," or national sales, tax: a 5 percent V.A.T. on everything would yield a whopping $128 billion in 1998.
Hillary Rodham Clinton and company have yet to signal which way the Administration is heading. What is clear, though, is that the current recovery plan is an hors d'oeuvre. The main course -- and the bill -- has yet to be presented.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (66%); APICULTURE (62%); DISMISSALS (61%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (61%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



733 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: A New Kind of Housing That Brings People Together

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

DATELINE: EMERYVILLE, Calif.

 BODY:
CRUISING along Interstate 80, Charles Durrett smirked at all the Legolike condominiums that clutter the hillsides from Oakland to Sacramento. "Nothing but big fat roads leading to big fat houses," he said. "I saw a sign once for this one development that said, 'Live and Shop.' And it showed a happy couple with a mall in the background."
Such anti-consumerism may sound strident, if not strange, especially from a developer like Mr. Durrett. But it's common among those who reside in co-housing complexes, increasingly popular communities that combine the privacy and amenities of 80's-style condo living with the togetherness and frugality of a 60's-style commune. 
 Mr. Durrett, who helped begin the co-housing movement in the United States five years ago, criticizes traditional multifamily developments as wastelands that separate people from each other, isolating them from any comfort but that of consumption. "Warehouses for people and their stuff," he called them.
By contrast, co-housing brings people together. Indeed, at the 12-unit complex here in Emeryville -- a town of about 5,000 wedged between Oakland and the San Francisco Bay Bridge -- 27 people, including Mr. Durrett and his wife, Kathryn McCamant, live in a renovated warehouse.
True, they own the apartment units in the building. But they also take part in committees that oversee everything from landscaping to laundry to pooper-scoopers. More radically, perhaps, they take turns cooking dinner in the common house. Plans vary among co-housing groups, but Emeryville's residents, in teams of two, cook meals for the group twice every six weeks; these community meals are offered about three times a week.
"There is also usually a spontaneous meal every week, potlucks or whatever," said Mr. Durrett, who, with his wife, wrote "Cohousing: A Contemporary Approach to Housing Ourselves" (Ten Speed Press, 1988; $21.95).
The book by Mr. Durrett, 37, and Ms. McCamant, 34, has become something of a bible for the co-housing movement; about 16,000 copies have been sold, and a second edition, with new material about the latest developments in the United States, is to be published in September.
Mr. Durrett, who with his beard, jeans and lanky laid-backness, has a faintly hippie demeanor, also operates the Cohousing Company in Berkeley, which serves as an information, referral and consulting service. "Co-housing is about making life more economical, more convenient and more fun, more practical, and to recreate the opportunity for a sense of community," he said.
Co-housing is not without its problems. Projects can take years to get off the ground. In particular, local planning and zoning departments can be very skeptical. And banks are wary because co-housing is unproven.
Then there is the sometimes awkward adjustment of not only getting to know the neighbors, but actually living with them. "I have noticed that people who don't have children have the hardest time getting used to it," said Monty Hunter, a motion-picture cameraman who lives with his wife, Hannah, and two children, Ben, 8, and Lizzie, 3, in a co-housing complex in Davis, Calif. "They feel overrun by children's needs."
Co-housing originated in 1976 in Denmark, where it is now common; there are about 150 co-housing communities there, and 150 more in Sweden and in the Netherlands. The concept stems from a belief that housing needs in the late 20th century are different from those developed in the middle of the century, when families were larger and women tended to stay at home, taking care of the house and raising the children.
"Mom is working," Mr. Durrett said. "She's not home all day managing the whale of a house and the larger family that goes with it. When I see a single mom or even a married couple trying to maintain a typical single-family home, I see them busy all weekend."
In the United States, the first co-housing community opened in 1991 in Davis, followed by communities in Bainbridge Island, Wash.; Emeryville, in May 1992, and Lafayette, Colo., in mid-February. About 300 people live in them. "The idea took hold first in the West probably because that's where we are," said Ellen Hertzman, project manager with the Cohousing Company.
Elsewhere in the nation, 12 co-housing groups are seeking land, and 150 more are trying to get their plans off the drawing board, Mr. Durrett said. The groups are scattered throughout the country. On the East Coast, there are co-housing groups in Amherst, Mass.; Westchester County; Ithaca, N.Y., and Manhattan.
"For an innovation to take off this fast is quite extraordinary," said Clare Cooper Marcus, a professor of architecture at the University of California at Berkeley. "It has met a need with people who really didn't know they had that need until the book came out. No one was aware of this type of housing."
Much of the activity in the West is along Interstate 80 in Northern California, where besides the Emeryville and Davis co-housing communities, projects are planned for Nevada City, Benicia, Sacramento and the Napa Valley. "This will be the co-housing belt by the turn of the century," Mr. Durrett said.
Co-housing differs from traditional housing in several ways, perhaps the most fundamental being that the residents decide in advance what the complex should look like and how it should function. Custom-made communities, they are often called.
In Emeryville, the co-housing complex was designed to fit in architecturally with the surrounding industrial neighborhood. For example, corrugated metal siding covers the upper floors, and culvert pipes have been turned into exterior columns.
In rural Davis, the co-housing complex is a series of brown stucco town houses surrounded by vegetable gardens and an orchard. A sign on the chalkboard in the common house says, "We Need Compost!!!"
"I didn't want a house; I wanted a community," said Jane McKennedy, 46, a research scientist who moved into the Davis complex when it opened two years ago.
People who want to live in co-housing often call Mr. Durrett first to find a group in their area that is trying to buy land and design a project. If they like the plans (and if the group likes them), they gradually put up money for land, an architect, a contractor and building expenses.
The process, which can take three years, can result in homes that cost about the same as comparable new housing. Co-housing apartments in Emeryville run from $135,000 for a one-bedroom, 940-square-foot unit to $260,000 for a three-bedroom, 1,600-square-foot unit.
"It is not a solution to the affordable-housing problem," Ms. Cooper Marcus said. "It will probably appeal to people who want to do something different, and they are probably well educated and reasonably well off."
But residents can save money by sharing, which is an important part of the co-housing spirit. "Individuals will have a litany of reasons for wanting to live in co-housing," Mr. Durrett said. "One of the reasons is often wanting to consume less. We have one lawn mower, one waffle iron, one guest fold-out bed, one wheelbarrow."
They also get a chance to own things as a group that they might be unable to afford on their own. Residents in Benicia, for example, have a communal sailboat; those in Emeryville have a woodworking shop and will soon have a hot tub.
The biggest luxury, though, may be the proximity to other people. "I used to drive 20 minutes to watch the Super Bowl with a friend," Mr. Durrett said. "Now, I go down to the common room."
The biggest appeal may be to empty-nesters and to retirees who are still in good health. "It seemed like a wonderful way of life for someone my age, to have your own place but be around people, too," said Margaret Hall, 67, who moved into the Emeryville complex after her husband died.
Younger families may choose co-housing because they want a neighbor for a baby sitter and playmates for their children. "I know of a mother who drives 15 miles so her child can play with another 7-year-old," said Mr. Durrett, who has an 18-month-old daughter, Jessie. "That's the kind of pathology the 20th century has brought us."
He added: "I have never known anyone in a co-housing development to hire a baby sitter."
Physically, the general design of co-housing complexes brings people together. See-through "full light" front doors are standard. Residences are also built close to each other and, if possible, face each other.
"They are laid out centripetally rather than centrifugally," Mr. Durrett said. "It allows people to commune with their neighbors, or not to."
Co-housing proponents emphasize that their philosophy is not for everyone. In Emeryville, residents often bemoan a neighbor's lack of social skills and self-centeredness. "It's a real good experience in getting along with people," Ms. Hall said. "You have to come into co-housing ready to compromise, or else it won't work."
Occasionally, residents rebel against the communal ethic. In Davis, one homeowner has decided not to take part in any joint chores and has put her unit up for sale. She has also been prohibited from taking part in any communal activities. (Residents in co-housing complexes cannot force an owner to sell. Nor do they have the right to reject any sale or rental, as do the boards in many New York cooperatives.)
The degree of conformity among co-housing residents may also match that in many traditional suburban subdivisions; few racial minorities or handicapped or poor people live in any of the four existing complexes in the United States.
Many residents maintain that they are a diverse bunch. "We don't only have pro-Clinton, pro-choice, read-Utne Reader-people here," said Joani Blank, 55, who founded a sexual aids company and recently moved into the Emeryville complex.
Ms. Blank thought for a second, then conceded that most of her neighbors were just that. "We do have two Republicans," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of the co-housing complex in Emeryville, Calif., cook and share meals in the common house. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Kathryn McCamant and Charles Durrett at the Emeryville, Calif., complex.; A leisurely moment (Linda Sue Scott for The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EMERYVILLE (CALIF) UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COMMUNES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONDOMINIUMS MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ZONING (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); TRENDS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: DURRETT, CHARLES; RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



734 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Mulroney Steps Down

 BODY:
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada may be unpopular at home, but he has been a good friend to the U.S., a close ally on global issues and a strong partner in demolishing trade barriers.
Some Canadians say he is too friendly with Washington, but that's only one of his problems. He also faced an election this year, a long, deep recession and low standing in the polls. An astute politician, he decided it was time to get out. 
 His departure does not, by itself, portend a change in U.S.-Canadian relations. While opposition parties are less open on trade policy, the only critical issue right now is the North American Free Trade Agreement; it seems safe to assume Mr. Mulroney will have it ratified before he goes.
Regardless of who wins the next election, he has launched his nation in a promising new direction. Its free-trade links with the U.S., and later Mexico, will expand Canada's foreign trade, but these agreements also force the reduction of protectionist provincial barriers within Canada.
Mr. Mulroney's popularity began to plunge in the late 1980's, with imposition of an unpopular national sales tax, signs of corruption in high places and public discontent over the free-trade agreement. Then came the recession, which hit Canada much harder than the U.S., and another defeat in the struggle for a constitutional agreement between Quebec and the rest of Canada.
Canadians, like their U.S. neighbors, appear to be looking for change. That's been apparent since the upset election of a Socialist government in Ontario two and a half years ago, and the subsequent gains of the populist Reform Party in opinion polls, especially in western Canada.
Mr. Mulroney has had an exceptionally long run of eight and a half years as Prime Minister -- and as a good neighbor to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (51%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (51%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SALES TAX (51%); 

PERSON: MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) BRIAN MULRONEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



735 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Balkan Strategy, Part I

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
This column will explain U.S. interests and policy options in Bosnia and what I think should be done. The next will show how to get other nations to join in stronger, though limited, action.
Why is Bosnia so important? 
 * The Serbs' "ethnic cleansing" is driving hundreds of thousands of Bosnian Muslims into Western Europe, igniting right-wing reactions, especially in Germany.
* If the West fails to counter the Serbs in Bosnia, Belgrade could be emboldened to start "cleansing" in Kosovo and Macedonia and thus cause a wider Balkan war -- engulfing Greece and Turkey.
* Bosnia is a major test case for whether the West and the U.N. can combat virulent nationalism and protect minorities.
* This war has unleashed a powerful evil inside people throughout ex-Yugoslavia -- just as surely as Hitler loosed an evil in Germany. Such evil can be highly contagious, empowering thugs and dispiriting decent citizens everywhere.
Few American or European leaders would dispute these stakes. Which makes Americans all the more dismayed that Europe, with the most to lose, acts so feebly.
The sad and undeniable truth is that European governments are too weak politically to take stronger action. The U.S. can curse the darkness and simply let the Europeans rot. Or it can help Europe, in America's own interest, as it has done throughout this century.
What can be done?
Option #1: Negotiated Settlement. Aid the stricken as much as possible without using force, sanction the Serbs economically and try to make a deal among the warring Serbian, Croatian and Muslim factions. This is the Vance-Owen course of fashioning largely autonomous ethnic enclaves policed by outside forces.
It is hard to see how all parties will accept such a plan. Because it is and must be based on present military realities, it rewards the Serbs and Croats and punishes the Muslims. The Muslims will not buy it. And if they get a better deal, the others will not go along. In any case, few will have faith in enforcement.
If the parties signed up under great external pressure, they would create a jigsaw puzzle requiring up to 100,000 outside troops -- indefinitely -- to keep the peace. These troops would be at great risk. To boot, Serbian crimes would be legitimized.
Option #2: Self-Exhaustion. Don't validate Serbia's ill-gotten gains in a treaty, just let the parties "exhaust themselves" in battle. This was the Bush Administration's approach and remains the unstated view of most West European leaders.
This attitude is grounded in the region's historical bloodletting. An observer wrote in 1917 that the inhabitants regarded their warring "partly as a sport and partly as a crusade."
But letting the parties slug it out with their current forces would mean a clear-cut Serb victory, countless Muslim deaths, the partition of Bosnia by Serbs and Croats and the flight of a million Muslim refugees into Europe.
Option #3: Limited Intervention/ Fair Fight. The idea here is that the stakes warrant stronger Western action, that the West should not become entangled in long-term, large-scale policing, that the Serbs must be punished and contained and that the Muslims deserve the chance to defend themselves.
First, launch air strikes against Serbian positions overlooking Sarajevo. While the attacks would not end the unlawful and barbaric siege, they would make life and aid delivery a lot easier.
Second, create safe havens where most Muslims now live and protect them with about 15,000 European and U.S. troops. This would prevent more Muslims from fleeing abroad and keep alive their hopes.
Third, offer heavy arms to the Muslims, and Croats if necessary. They, not the West, should provide the ground troops. Initially, fighting and casualties will be heavier, but it will be a fair fight. Eventually the factions will establish a new military balance and reach a modus vivendi.
The danger is that the Serbian government could escalate by sending troops into Bosnia. The West would have to respond with air strikes against those troops and against Serbia as well. No more, but no less.
This risky option -- or softer variants linking force to negotiations -- alone begins to satisfy U.S. interests. The problem will be persuading Russia, Britain, France and the U.N. to go along with it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (88%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA) EUROPE (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (88%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



736 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Protectionism Doesn't Help Balance of Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Protectionists will undoubtedly seize on the news that Japan's export surplus last year soared to some $130 billion (news article, Feb. 5) to justify "getting tough" -- threatening further to restrict our imports unless Japan opens its markets to us. 
 It's ironic: we consistently have an export surplus with Mexico, but that doesn't prevent the same protectionists from opposing the Free Trade Agreement with that country.
Businesses and their unions don't like competition and, as Peter Passell points out in his Feb. 4 Economic Scene column, are quick to invoke our antidumping laws against what we would consider salutary competition domestically. That is, selling below average full cost, in the presence of excess capacity -- regardless of whether our trade balance is positive or negative.
I'll rest easier when some responsible member of the Clinton Administration -- of which I am in all other respects an enthusiastic supporter -- shows a clear recognition that a country's balance of trade is simply the mirror image of the relation between its domestic savings and investments, and does not depend on the liberality or restrictionism of its trade policies or those of its trading partners. We will have a trade deficit so long as we save so little relative to Federal Government deficits and domestic investments; and Japan will always have a corresponding surplus for the opposite reason.
How that accounting identity works out in the real world is more complicated than that: Japan's export surplus has soared largely because Japan has been going into a recession -- not a very healthy way for a country to restrain its spending.
And our deficit is increasing because our economy has been moving modestly in the opposite direction and because the foreign exchange value of the dollar has strengthened slightly -- both of these developments that a sane country would be happy about, rather than use as an excuse to protect some of its citizens from competition at the expense of everyone else.
 
ALFRED E. KAHN
Ithaca, N.Y., Feb. 8, 1993
The writer is the Robert Julius Thorne Professor of Political Economy, Emeritus, at Cornell University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



737 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Protectionism Doesn't Help Balance of Trade;
We Must Manufacture

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Car Import Duty Can Only Hurt U.S. Economy"(letter, Feb. 7), Michael May seems to argue that America's economic position is improved if it imports automobiles without some form of control. The consumer will save $1 billion (no basis provided for that number), the trade deficit will help pay the Federal deficit and lower the interest rate. 
 If we accept that the American consumer will save $1 billion by purchasing automobiles at "a few hundred dollars less" than the domestic equivalent, does it necessarily follow that the American economy is improved? I am not sure it does.
The $1 billion saved is for those who buy automobiles. What would the impact be to the economy if the money spent for these foreign automobiles were spent for domestic products.
With the price of the average car in excess of $10,000, I doubt that the price elasticity of demand for new cars would cause a significant decrease in total units sold. Competition among G.M., Ford and Chrysler would work to control prices.
What would the impact be on the economy if we spread $20 billion additional automobile manufacturing across the economy. (The figure comes from an assumed 5 percent saving in Professor May's few hundred dollars a car.)
In introductory economics courses we are exposed to the multiplier effect of new spending. If we assume a modest multiplier of three we are talking about $60 billion of economic activity. This encompasses all segments of the economy: glass, tires, rubber, batteries, textiles, carpets, ferrous and nonferrous metals, machine tools, home building, retail trade, computers and controls.
We generate higher-paying jobs in these related industries without eliminating jobs in the service industries.
More jobs mean less paid out in unemployment and welfare benefits. At the same time we have an increase in taxes collected at every level of government. Increased taxes and reduced spending work to reduce government deficits. This reduces pressure on the capital markets by lowering one segment of demand. Funds available increase. With our modest savings rate of around 2 percent we could generate $1.2 billion of savings.
Domestic manufacture generates jobs, increases tax yields, reduces deficits and creates 20 percent more savings to help reduce interest rates. If we as a nation are going to consume products, we must manufacture products. When we do, we are all better off.
 
J. CARTER SHOOK
Ardmore, Pa., Feb. 11, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AUTOMOBILES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); TAX INCREASES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



738 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Subways Should Allow Newsstands Back In

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In a time of economic crisis for New York City's tabloid newspapers, the Transit Authority could give them an improved shot at survival by simply encouraging the return of news vendors to the city's subway platforms and stations. 
 The subways are a great place to read a paper, and many more New Yorkers would surely buy newspapers if they were more readily available for sale there.
But news vendors seem to have disappeared in many parts of the city. Many of those who are left do their work surreptitiously.
I have commuted daily on the IRT line from the Eastern Parkway, Franklin Street and Bergen Street stations and have been saddened to see well-meaning pseudovendors who stand in the rain outside a dry station, struggling to keep their papers dry under plastic wraps flapping in wind.
What kind of a society treats those who would uplift us with the news of the world in such a fashion?
While the use of the public's property to peddle papers should ordinarily give rise to taxes, fees, registration and the like, I would like to see the Transit Authority take some quick, effective action, without the normal governmental impediments.
Perhaps 2,000 jobs at three newspapers are at stake, with a total economic impact that has been put at $200 million annually for the city.
At the risk of added confusion on subway platforms, turf wars and litter, it would be great if the Transit Authority would open the gates of its stations to all comers, big and small. Beyond saving jobs, this could result in a more literate city. How about a try?
 
ROBERT C. APFEL
 New York, Feb. 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN STREET BAKERY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STATIONS AND NETWORKS; SUBWAYS; NEWSPAPERS NEWSSTANDS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



739 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: High-Level Grumbling Over Pace of Appointments

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Some Cabinet officers and others in the Clinton Administration are expressing frustration with the time-consuming efforts by the White House to add diversity and otherwise influence selections for top Government posts.
Some of the Cabinet members have told others that they blame fine-tuning by the White House for compounding a process that is already slower than that of President Clinton's comparable recent predecessors. 
 To fill 290 top Government jobs subject to Senate confirmation, Mr. Clinton has so far submitted just 30 formal nominations. That is only about half the pace of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan in the first month of their Presidencies, and only slightly better than that of George Bush, who had many fewer vacancies to fill because he kept a large number of Reagan Administration officials in place.
At most Government departments, there is no backup person to step in if a top official is away or taken ill, as occurred this week when Defense Secretary Les Aspin was hospitalized with heart problems. Mr. Aspin's likely deputy, William Perry, has not yet been formally nominated for the post.
 
21 New Selections
 With a flurry of 21 announcements on Tuesday afternoon, the White House tried to blunt such criticism by identifying more officials the President will nominate to important jobs. But the announcements were not formal nominations, and officials said it could be weeks before background investigations were completed and the White House was actually ready to submit the names to the Senate.
To fill the void, the top officials at the State Department, the Pentagon, the Treasury and some other departments have quietly hired as temporary employees or consultants many of the officials expected to be named to top posts. At the Pentagon, for example, two policy aides, Walter Slocombe and Graham Allison, accompanied Mr. Aspin on a recent trip to Munich, Germany, even though neither has been nominated to a sub-Cabinet post.
But such shadow appointees lack full authority to take charge in departmental decisions, leaving much day-to-day management in the hands of civil servants and Bush Administration holdovers. That has left many Democrats uncomfortable. In some sensitive legal cases, it has even caused the White House to delegate its own overworked legal office to take charge rather than rely on an acting general counsel at a Government agency.
At the State Department, Strobe Talbott, the designated ambassador-at-large for Russian affairs, was permitted to join Secretary of State Warren Christopher on his current overseas tour only after a top Republican on the staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee granted him a special exception to a rule barring officials from such trips until their appointments are confirmed by the Senate.
 
Unease Among Democrats
 Such uneasy arrangements have made many Democrats uncomfortable. Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said she remained concerned that without Clinton appointees officially in place there would be "too few civilians" taking part in coming Pentagon debates over military spending.
The Clinton White House is not the first to claim a role in selecting those who will fill Government jobs below Cabinet rank. But it has been much more assertive than its recent predecessors in rejecting lists submitted by Cabinet officers and insisting upon its own choices, even at the assistant secretary rank.
For obvious reasons, Cabinet officers and other senior officials have not voiced their frustration in public. But Administration aides said that some had made plain their exasperation in conversations with top advisers and White House officials.
Among those said to be most clearly dissatisfied with the pace of appointments are Mr. Aspin, Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy and Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena. In an interview published this week in The Washington Post, Mr. Pena hinted at his discontent in recounting that while he had submitted "a whole page of names" to the White House, he had been reminded repeatedly that "they're Presidential appointments."
Mr. Pena was then quoted as saying that he and top aides were "working with the White House in trying to get some of these names out so we can start making some appointments."
A spokesman for Mr. Pena, Richard Mintz, said today that the Secretary was not inclined to be interviewed on the subject again. But other officials said that other Cabinet secretaries had encountered similar obstacles. They said Mr. Aspin had been advised that his first choices to top Pentagon jobs included too few women.
The officials also said that Henry G. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, had been told that his list of proposed nominees included the names of too many New Yorkers.
Without discussing those specific cases, Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, acknowledged that the scrutiny being imposed by Clinton aides had contributed to delays.
But she said White House aides remained determined to assure that appointments across the breadth of the Administration reflect Mr. Clinton's commitment "to casting the net wider than in the past and getting a diversity in terms of race and geography and background."
She also said that Mr. Clinton and his top advisers had been mainly concerned until last week with decisions about their economic program but had now begun to shift their attention to the unfilled Government jobs. George Stephanopoulos, the communications director, insisted: "We're beginning to break the logjam now."
Other Administration officials nevertheless said they feared that the process would remain cumbersome. For one thing, they said that the fact that public concerns about Government officials had widened to include such matters as child care had added to the officials' burdens in scrutinizing potential nominees.
In addition, they said, Hillary Rodham Clinton has joined with the White House personnel director, Bruce Lindsey, in asserting an extensive role in passing judgment on departmental recommendations.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a chart on Thursday about the pace of Clinton Administration appointments misstated the number of nominations formally submitted to the Senate for confirmation. By Thursday, the President had made 29 such nominations, not 30. One nomination, not two, was for a Justice Department post.


GRAPHIC: President Clinton's appointments through Feb. 24. The list does not include ambassadors, Justice Department lawyers and United States Marshals, or mint directors and assayers.
 
State Department
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 29
 Holdovers* -- 1
 Nominated through yesterday -- 3
 Named but not nominated -- 12
 Confirmed -- 3
 
Department of the Treasury
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 21
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 2
 Named but not nominated -- 2
 Confirmed -- 2
 
Department of Defense
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 45
 Holdovers* -- 5
 Nominated through yesterday -- 3
 Named but not nominated -- 1
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Justice
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 20
 Holdovers* -- 5
 Nominated through yesterday -- 2**
 Named but not nominated -- 1
 Confirmed --
 
Department of the Interior
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 11
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 7
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Agriculture
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 14
 Holdovers* -- 1
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Commerce Department
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 21
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 1
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Labor
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 17
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 2
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Health & Human Services
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 19
 Holdovers* -- 3
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 6
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Housing & Urban Development
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 13
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 4
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Transportation Department
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 19
 Holdovers* -- 2
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Energy Department
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 19
 Holdovers* -- 1
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated -- 2
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Department of Education
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 18
 Holdovers* -- 2
 Nominated through yesterday -- 2
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 2
 
Department of Veterans Affairs
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 14
 Holdovers* -- 3
 Nominated through yesterday -- 2
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 2
 
Department of Trade Rep.
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 4
 Holdovers* -- 1
 Nominated through yesterday -- 1
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 1
 
Office of Management and Budget
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 6
 Holdovers* --
 Nominated through yesterday -- 2
 Named but not nominated --
 Confirmed -- 2
 
Total
 Appointments requiring Senate confirmation -- 290
 Holdovers* -- 24
 Nominated through yesterday -- 25***
 Named but not nominated -- 38
 Confirmed -- 21***
 
*Holdovers from Bush administration, terms unexpired.
**One nominee for Attorney General was later withdrawn.
**Five other Clinton nominations, outside of Cabinet-level departments, have been made and confirmed by the Senate.
 
Sources: Federal agencies,"Policy & Supporting Positions" (Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs), White House press releases.
Chart: "Clinton's Progress So Far"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (53%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (53%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); LAWYERS (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993



740 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Shoreham A-Plant Has Found a Taker For Its Spent Fuel

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The $5.5 billion Shoreham nuclear power plant lurched a step closer to oblivion yesterday as the Long Island Power Authority announced that it had found a home for the plant's partly spent nuclear fuel.
Instead of shipping the 100 tons of fuel to France at a cost of $80 million, as originally proposed, the authority will pay the Philadelphia Electric Company $45 million to take it. The fuel will be used over a 15-year period at two reactors near Pottstown, Pa., the company said. 
 The sale would help bring the long, troubled history of the plant to an end. After two decades of controversy over whether the $5.5 billion plant should go into operation, its owner, the Long Island Lighting Company, sold it to the power authority in early 1992 for $1. The plant closed without ever having opened.
If things go well, the fuel could be off the Shoreham site by the end of this year. It costs the power authority about $3 million a month to guard and maintain the fuel, and the savings could run into the tens of million dollars, said Richard Kessel, the authority's chairman.
"It's very good news, under the circumstances," Mr. Kessel said. The authority's board unanimously approved the deal yesterday afternoon.
Philadelphia Electric must still win the approval of the band in jail and told him of the fight.
"She visits him at Rikers and explains to him what happened," the chief said. "Subsequent to his release, he gets the cooperation of the other indivihoreham's fuel would save its customers an estimated $70 million.
Asked about possible opposition to the deal, Mr. Kessel said: "I'm hopeful there won't be. The bottom line is you've got to do something with it."
But opposition could come from New York City officials, who have balked in the past at shipments of radioactive materials through the city.
A spokesman for Mayor David N. Dinkins said last night that the city would study the transportation plans before deciding whether to try to block the shipments.
"Obviously this concerns us greatly," the spokesman, John Beckman, said. "We will of course insist on seeing the plans for the transportation of this material at the very least, and we will be insistent on safeguarding the health and safety of New Yorkers."
Mr. Kessel said the fuel will be shipped by rail in special casks that have already been approved by the Federal Department of Transportation. He said that no route had been determined, but he added it was unlikely that it would go through Manhattan. The fuel could, he said, travel over the Hell Gate bridge from Queens to the Bronx and continue north to cross the Hudson River upstate.
Mr. Kessel stressed yesterday that his agency had already shipped 1.8 million pounds of radioactive material from Shoreham by truck to a low-level waste dump near Aiken, S.C.
The shipments would be handled by General Electric for $20 million, which the power authority would pay. Shipments are to begin in June and be finished by next February. Two of the specials casks have been obtained; if General Electric can obtain a third, the work would be completed by the end of this year.
 
Radiation Hazard Discussed
 A spokesman for Philadelphia Electric said yesterday that the radiation hazard from the fuel shipments would be less than from shipments of low-level radioactive wastes that are routinely made around the country.
The Shoreham fuel is uranium metal in ceramic pellets about the size of pencil erasers. These are wrapped in long, thin metal tubes that are bound together in precisely spaced arrays called assemblies.
They will be handled by remote-controlled equipment and generally kept under water to shield people from radiation. The shipping containers, which are primarily for shielding, weigh 70 tons each.
The sale of the plant to The Long Island Power Authority, a public agency created by the state in large part to dispose of Shoreham, ended years of wrangling over its safety and economic viability. The authority has begun dismantling the plant, but disposing of the fuel has been a major problem.
The fuel was originally only slightly radioactive, but the Long Island Lighting Company, which built Shoreham, was desperate to demonstrate that the plant could be used and so ran it for an extended period at low power. When a nuclear reactor runs, it splits uranium atoms into cesium, strontium and other atoms that are substantially more radioactive.
 
Processing Plant in France
 The Long Island Power Authority, which owns Shoreham now, pursued a variety of options, including shipping the fuel to France, where used nuclear fuel is routinely broken down in a chemical processing plant at La Hague to retrieve unused uranium and the plutonium that is produced during reactor operation.
But the United States Department of Defense sought to block the shipment.
Disposal of the fuel has been difficult for several reasons. The United States has no permanent repository for spent fuel, a problem that is beginning to affect operating reactors.
In addition, different reactor designs use different fuels, and not many use fuel of precisely the type that Shoreham was supposed to use.
 
Enriching Fuel
 Uranium comes in two forms, one easy to split in a reactor and the other more difficult, and reactor fuel is "enriched" by raising the proportion of fissionable uranium from the natural level of .7 percent. Philadelphia Electric uses fuel enriched to 4 percent.
The Shoreham fuel was made to several different enrichment levels.
Hugh Diamond, the manager of nuclear fuel at Philadelphia Electric, said the 76 assemblies that are not enriched cannot be used. The remainder will be mixed with regular fuel and used in the Limerick reactors, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); EXC (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; PHILADELPHIA ELECTRIC CO NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); PECO ENERGY CO (83%); EXELON CORP (72%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; PHILADELPHIA ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POTTSTOWN (PA) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (78%); RAIL FREIGHT (72%); CITIES (67%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (66%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L RICHARD E KESSEL (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



741 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 NEW YORK CITY
 
 BRONX KILLINGS LINKED TO LOVE RIVALRY
The shootings of six people in a Mott Haven apartment and a young mother at the Bronx County Building were twin acts of revenge rooted in a simmering rivalry between two young women over a man, the police said. A1.
Starting with two nicknames, the police built a case against suspects in the Mott Haven slayings. B2.
 Friends and neighbors described the woman killed on Wednesday as beautiful and quiet. B2.
 STUDENT DEATH SHAKES SPECIAL-ED SYSTEM
The slaying of a special-education student left those who worked with the victim and the youth suspected of stabbing him groping to understand how the special-education system, set up to identify and help potentially violent students, could have failed so badly. B3.
 NEW STATUS FOR AFRICAN BURIAL GROUND
The Landmarks Preservation Commission voted to create the African Burial Ground and the Commons Historic District, from the southern tip of City Hall Park to the north side of Duane Street, including part of Foley Square. B3.
 AIDS PANEL URGES END TO SOME SEX CLUBS
A panel that advises New York State on AIDS policy recommended that New York City close commercial sex establishments if they refuse to comply with health regulations intended to reduce transmission of the AIDS virus. B3.
 
 Schools are cleaner and in better condition, a report said, but where physical-plant conditions are bad, they are very bad. B3.
 A 27-year-old mother and her 2-year-old son were found shot and bludgeoned to death in their apartment in New Brighton, Staten Island. B3.
 
 REGION
 
 ASSEMBLY VOTES AGAINST GUN BAN
The New Jersey Assembly voted to get rid of a ban on semiautomatic weapons, in defiance of Governor Florio who wants New Jersey to have the toughest gun law in the nation. In a statement, Mr. Florio called the vote a "sneak attack against sanity." A1.
 SHOREHAM FUEL TO GO TO PENNSYLVANIA
The $5 billion Shoreham nuclear power plant lurched a step closer to it final demise as the Long Island Power Authority announced that it had found a home for the plant's partially spent nuclear fuel. Instead of shipping the 100 tons of fuel to France, as originally proposed, the authority will pay the Philadelphia Electric Company $45 million to take it. A1.
 BUFFALO SUBURB AT WAR OVER RELIGION
As some tell it, religion wasn't a big issue in the comfortable, ethnically diverse Buffalo suburb of Williamsville until last fall. Then the school board unveiled a new policy to help children get along better. That's when parents began shouting at one another and wondering which side their neighbors were on. B5.
 AID FOR BATTERED BEACHES SOUGHT
Warning that Long Island's fragile ecology and tourist-dependent economy are at risk, political and business leaders called for a joint Federal and state effort to help repair the coastal damage from this winter's stormy weather. B5.
 
 Chronicle B4
 
 Our Towns by George Judson B5

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Pulse: Office Space" Chart indicating square feet of vacant office space in NYC area for January 1993. (Source: Edward S. Gordon Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EXC (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (62%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (62%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXELON CORP (62%); PECO ENERGY CO (62%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (76%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); FIREARMS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUN CONTROL (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); HOMICIDE (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WOMEN (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); VIRUSES (65%); NUCLEAR WASTE (61%); RELIGION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



742 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON ANNOUNCES AIRDROPS TO BOSNIA WILL BEGIN SHORTLY

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton announced today that United States military planes would soon begin parachuting relief supplies to all three warring factions in remote areas of Bosnia as a good-will gesture aimed at inducing them to return to the negotiating table.
Pentagon officials said the operation would be short and could begin as early as Sunday. It will involve C-130 Hercules transports flying at night, and at around 10,000 feet -- lessening their chances of being hit by ground fire but also lessening the accuracy of the drops. 
 About 600,000 leaflets in Serbo-Croatian will be dropped ahead of time, telling Serbs, Bosnian Muslims and Croats when and where the food would be landing, and advising them not to interfere. The leaflets will also warn them to stay indoors when the one-ton bundles start parachuting to earth at a speed of 90 feet per second.
 
U.S. Acting Alone
 Although Mr. Clinton had said on Wednesday that he hoped other countries would take part, for now the Americans will conduct the operation alone. Some allies view the airdrops as an inefficient and dangerous way to deliver aid and believe they were adopted by the Clinton Administration to show it was doing something more than its predecessors, but without risking soldiers on the ground.
Even as the White House announced the airdrops, Serbian fighters allowed 12 trucks that it had held at a roadblock for two and a half days to proceed to Gorazde, an isolated Muslim town in eastern Bosnia. [Page A8.]
Administration officials acknowledged that the airlift was mostly a symbolic gesture, and that it would not be as accurate as they would like. But they insisted that it would save lives, and possibly prompt the Serbs to reopen the overland routes that they have kept mostly closed in recent weeks. Serbs control the key supply roads, especially in eastern Bosnia, and halt United Nations convoys at will.
United States officials hope that by making a gesture to all parties, they will demonstrate that Washington is ready to be an honest broker in the Balkan negotiations and that therefore the factions should resume their stalled peace talks in New York. As Mr. Clinton told reporters after the announcement, "We think if we do it we will be able to create a somewhat better climate for negotiations."
All week, as he inched toward this announcement, Mr. Clinton has tried to assure a public wary of getting entangled in the Balkans that the operation would not embroil Americans in conflict. He reinforced that today, telling reporters that the "the risk is quite limited and not appreciably more than training flights."
 
Carrier Standing By
 But given the history of this conflict and the number of military elements fighting in the Balkan war, no one can insure safety. Pentagon officials said that while the air transports would not have fighter-jet escorts, a Marine amphibious unit and the aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy would be standing by in the Adriatic Sea.
Although it is a relief operation, the airdrops constitute the deepest American involvement yet in the Balkan conflict and the first major intervention abroad undertaken by the Clinton Administration.
Mr. Clinton, who spent the day selling his economic program, chose not to announce personally either the airdrop or the scheduling of a summit meeting with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia. Officials said this was deliberate, so voters would not think he was following his predecessor, George Bush, and getting overly absorbed in foreign affairs.
 
Emergency Need Cited
 In a statement released by the White House, Mr. Clinton said that "in view of the emergency humanitarian need," the United States would conduct relief airdrops over Bosnia in coordination with the United Nations and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which now supervise the overland convoys. The exact timing and targets of the operations will also be worked out with the United Nations.
"The war that has raged in Bosnia-Herzegovina over the past year has taken a staggering toll," Mr. Clinton said, finally ending a week of speculation about the operation. "Thousands have been killed or imprisoned, thousands more are at risk due to hunger and exposure, and over two million people have been forced from their homes."
He said that the need for food and medicine was greatest in eastern Bosnia, and that "priority for air deliveries will be determined without regard to ethnic or religious affiliation." Most of the estimated 200,000 people living in the isolated areas are Muslims.
"These airdrops are being carried out strictly for humanitarian purposes," he added. "No combat aircraft will be used in this operation."
 
'A Temporary Measure'
 The President acknowledged that the convoys remain the best way to deliver aid, and said the airdrops were "a temporary measure, designed to address the immediate needs of isolated areas that cannot be reached at this time by ground."
Pentagon officials said each of the airdrops would include from three to five C-130 transports, preceded by MC-130 special operations planes, which carry electronic equipment for detecting antiaircraft fire. Each plane will carry 15 or 16 one-ton bundles of medical supplies, flour, cooking oil, coffee beans, rice and United States Army rations, and should be able to make the trip without refueling.
Mr. Clinton was asked if other countries would take part in the mission; all he would say was that there were "several volunteers." Britain and France, which have been delivering supplies by land, have shown no interest in airdrops, but they both endorsed the Clinton initiative.
Germany, Russia and Turkey, which have the ability to deliver aid by air, were apparently ruled out because of Germany's wartime links with Croatia, Russia's historical ties with Serbia and Turkey's sympathies with the Muslims. Their participation might have aroused suspicion among the factions that weapons, not food, would be dropped. Germany's tacit cooperation will be needed, though, since the flights will originate from the Rhein-Main base in Germany.
 
Dole Praises Operation
 Senator George J. Mitchell, the majority leader, and Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader, both issued statements praising the operation.
"It is a small step, but it is the right step," Senator Dole said. "There's no military edge to it. It's a humanitarian gesture."
Former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney expressed some doubts about it, saying it would be a "terrible mistake" for the United States to get drawn into the Balkan conflict. "It appears certainly to have symbolic significance," he said in an interview on the NBC News program "Today." "Whether or not it's an effective way to deliver humanitarian supplies remains to be seen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA) UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FOOD; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; AIRLIFTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); RELIGION (69%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



743 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: 'Strategic' Goats Gobble Up Trade Subsidy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MENARD, Tex., Feb. 24

 BODY:
Here on a stony meadow in West Texas, at the end of 10 miles of unpaved road through mesquite-covered, coyote-infested scrub land, several hundred bearers of a strategic commodity of the United States of America are gathered.
They are goats. 
 "Woody, woody, woody, yip!" cries Bob Rieck, a rancher, as he calls the milling herd of angora goats to a feeding of high-protein cottonseed while his border collie, Traveler, chases after strays.
Of all the disputes that President Clinton faces with the end of the cold war, perhaps none is as strange as the plight of the nation's mohair ranchers.
 
'Strategic' Goods for Soviets
 At the end of the Korean War, the ranchers persuaded Congress to include them in a strategic commodity program for sheep wool. But because the military has had dwindling use for mohair, the ranchers ended up sending three-fifths of their subsidized annual production by 1990 to the Soviet Union through intermediaries who produced scarves, caps and overcoats.
The demise of the Soviet Union the next year has cut sales and led, in an odd reversal of the peace dividend, to increases in the Federal subsidies for owners of the greasy, inbred herds.
Payments to ranchers have soared to an estimated $3.60 for every $1 of mohair sold to manufacturers last year from 88.2 cents in 1987. The nation's 10,000 mohair ranchers collected $50 million in subsidies in 1991, and falling market prices last year have sent the subsidy cost even higher.
As part of the economic plan he announced on Feb. 17, President Clinton proposed to reduce their Federal wool and mohair subsidies to a maximum of $50,000 per producer, from $150,000 now. The Clinton Administration estimates that together with a similar cut in maximum payments for sheep wool, the changes could save $212 million over four years.
Some members of Congress want more. Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said: "I've been trying to eliminate this program for three or four years. It's one of the most wasteful Government subsidies there is."
Decisions about the program do not just affect the nation's mohair ranchers. While most mohair is now exported to Taiwan, a fifth of the nation's production is consumed domestically as $150 mohair sweaters, $500 mohair suits and even a few $350 mohair teddy bears.
The decisions also affect the makers of skin-cream products that millions of Americans smear on their hands and faces. Body grease accounts for nearly a third of the weight of freshly cut mohair, and it is purified to make lanolin for these skin creams. Fresh mohair is so greasy that, at shearing time, affluent ranchers and mohair merchants sometimes wave their farmhands aside and stamp the mohair into burlap sacks themselves, to oil their finely carved boots.
Not surprisingly, national polls showing broad support for the Clinton economic plan do not seem to reflect opinions in the wind-swept hamlets here, where the few small oil wells no longer earn much money for their owners and where the grass is too sparse for cattle more demanding than goats.
"We want to do our part, do our best, but we don't want to get killed on something that people in Washington don't understand," said Armer F. Earwood, a rancher in Sonora who has a goat etched into the glass of his front door and has hung a huge painting of five goats over his fireplace.
 
'We're a Victim'
 Ranchers say the program is now needed for rural development. They contend that this year is a particularly bad time to cut subsidies because they are struggling to cope not only with the loss of the Soviet market but with sharply higher costs and a mohair import tariff increase by China in 1991 that virtually shut down American sales to another large foreign market.
"We're a victim, so what do you do with the U.S. mohair industry; do you let it go downhill or do you support it?" asked Mr. Rieck.
Rising labor costs have hit the industry especially hard, because of a Federal ban in 1986 on the employment of illegal aliens. Ranchers contend that their former farmhands are worse off now in Mexican border factories.
Ford Oglesby Jr., a second-generation rancher from El Dorado, said: "They pay them $5 a day. We used to pay them $10 or $15 and give them all their food and such." Mr. Oglesby, who wrote many of the nation's wool and mohair subsidy program regulations during a five-year stint at the Agriculture Department that started during the Korean War, added, "Of course, I know things are changing, and we need to change."
Ranchers say that subsidy cuts would force them to slaughter goats, leaving them unable to respond if demand for mohair bounces back or if output in South Africa, the only large foreign producer, continues to decline because of drought, political turbulence and new limits on government subsidies there.
If thinned because of shrinking Federal subsidies, the herds would be very hard to rebuild. All American angora goats descend from four imported from Turkey in 1845. As a result, they are so inbred that they are plagued by infertility and miscarriages.
Further bred for thick hair, the American goats are so shaggy that they have trouble running away from coyotes, and sometimes bump into trees when the hair grows over their eyes shortly before the semiannual shearings.
 
Uniforms and Blankets
 But once cleaned, the hair consists of strong, lustrous fibers that hold heat well and can absorb a third of their weight in water without becoming soggy. Mohair cloth holds a crisp crease, which made it popular for military dress uniforms for many years, while mohair blankets were sometimes issued because they were warm and lightweight.
But the subsidies continue even though the military use of mohair is now limited to some braids on dress uniforms and the embroidery on some officers' hats. In 1991, the most recent year for which figures are available, the Agriculture Department paid $50 million in subsidies for $20.9 million worth of mohair production. Mohair now sells for 75 cents a pound, down from $2.63 in 1987.
The cost of the subsidies have soared because market prices have collapsed, partly because mohair went out of fashion in the late 1980's as well as because of the Soviet Union's collapse. Yet the Agriculture Department continues to guarantee mohair producers a fixed price based on a complex formula of average farm costs in recent years and in the late 1950's. The formula, which is unique in American agriculture, locks in profits by virtually insuring that prices rise as fast as costs.
Less than 1 percent of the nation's wool and mohair ranchers received more than half of all payments for the two commodities in 1991, while a third of those ranchers received payments of $100 or less. Many of the small mohair payments went to Navajos in Utah, Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado, while almost all of the large payments came to West Texas, where five-sixths of the nation's mohair is produced.
Mr. Rieck, who receives about $30,000 a year in Federal payments, said President Clinton's reduction in payment caps to $50,000 would actually save the Federal Government very little money. He said large ranchers would break up their herds among their families to collect several payments, or would sell the goats to smaller ranchers who could continue to collect payments on them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photo of goats. (pg. A1); "We're a victim, so what do you do with the U.S. mohair industry; do you let it go downhill or do you support it?" asked Bob Rieck. He fed some of his herd of angora goats on his ranch near Menard, Tex. (Craig Stafford for The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: MOHAIR; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GOATS GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (77%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); DOGS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (71%); KOREAN WAR (70%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); FARM LABOR (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); CHARLES SCHUMER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



744 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
CLINTON ANNOUNCES AIRDROP
President Clinton said U.S. military planes would soon begin parachuting relief supplies to all three warring factions in remote areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a good-will gesture aimed at inducing them to return to the negotiating table. A1
 
Serbs allowed U.N. relief trucks to reach a Muslim town in Bosnia. A8 

The U.S. urged allies to seize a ship that took goods to Yugoslavia. A8
 
SHOOTING ERUPTS IN MOGADISHU
Bands of Somalis fired their guns throughout the heart of southern Mogadishu for six straight hours in defiance of U.S. demands that they lay down their arms. The shooting reflected a growing challenge by supporters of a Somali warlord to the foreign military presence. A1
 
OFFICERS BLOCK HINDU RALLY
Firing tear gas and wielding bamboo staves throughout New Delhi, police officers prevented a rally by Hindu nationalists that had been called to demand the resignation of the Government. About 100,000 officers cordoned off the city center. A1
 
Fears of violence emptied the streets in New Delhi. A6
 
CLINTON TO MEET YELTSIN IN APRIL
President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia scheduled their first summit meeting for April 4 in a third country still undisclosed. The meeting reflects what officials said was Mr. Clinton's desire to support Mr. Yeltsin as he faces challenges to his programs. A3
 
REPORT TELLS OF SUB COLLISIONS
A report said Moscow's nuclear-powered submarines had collided with foreign subs, mostly with U.S. vessels, at least eight times over the decades and, separately, suffered at least four partial meltdowns of nuclear reactors. A2
 
PALESTINIANS HOPEFUL ON TALKS
Palestinian negotiators said they hoped for a quick resolution of the deportees crisis so they would be able to attend a new round of Israeli-Arab peace talks in April, but they withheld an official response to a U.S. and Russian call for them. A3
 
PARTY CHIEF QUITS IN ITALY
Italy's widening corruption scandal gnawed further into the country's business and political elite with the resignation of a leading politician, the arrest of one of the country's richest industrial barons and the apparent suicide of an official implicated in the affair. A5
 
TROOPS SEIZE ZAIRE PARLIAMENT
Hundreds of heavily armed soldiers have seized control of the Parliament building in Zaire's capital and are holding hostage several hundred members of Parliament, demanding that the lawmakers approve new bank notes as legal currency. A9
 
Vunduzi Journal: Mozambican rebels wonder what's next. A4
 
National A10-16
 
DEBATE ON MAMMOGRAMS GROWS
New analyses of data from around the world have failed to show that women under the age of 50 benefit from mammograms. A1
 
Experts urged nonsurgical options for cataracts. A15
 
THE MOHAIR WARS
Of all the disputes that the President faces with the end of the cold war, perhaps no other is so strange as the plight of the nation's mohair ranchers. A1
 
THE VOICES OF WARREN, MICH.
The Reagan Democrats of one Midwestern town who returned to their party's fold to vote for Bill Clinton are still behind the new President, although cautiously. A16
 
Clinton hinted at a tobacco-tax increase to pay for health care. A14
 
Republicans will propose cuts in Clinton's spending plans. A14
 
Washington at Work: Hillary Clinton's right-hand man. A14
 
THE STATES' RECOVERY
For the first time in years, nearly all the states, finally emerging from the recession, are planning budgets that feature no big tax increases or deep program cuts. A16
 
GAIN FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS GROUPS
A Federal judge voided the Government's rules on the treatment of laboratory dogs and primates, finding that they were too lenient. A12
 
CUT DOWN, DOCTORS TELL ASPIN
The Defense Secretary left the hospital but is not expected to regain full strength for at least a week and has been advised to reduce his long workdays and to have a heart pacemaker implanted. A16
 
KING BEATING TRIAL UNDER WAY
Opening arguments and the playing of a now-famous videotape were the highlights of a day on which jurors began hearing evidence in the civil rights trial of four Los Angeles police officers. A10
 
BIG ARIZONA FLOOD IS IMMINENT
Record rains have caused a huge Arizona reservoir to overflow, threatening an agricultural region of southwestern Arizona with flooding whose toll is already being projected at $100 million. A10
 
HOMICIDE INQUIRY IN SUICIDE CASE
Prosecutors said that a man who asked Dr. Jack Kevorkian for help in committing suicide changed his mind and that the case was being investigated as a homicide. A10
 
A House chairman issued new accusations in the B.N.L. case. A12
 
A prosecutor told of a motive in the shootings at the C.I.A. A12
 
Law Page B16
 
The lashed-together team running the Clinton Justice Department.
 
In Memphis: Making the sentence fit the offender.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
TRENTON WEAPONS VOTE
The New Jersey Assembly voted to get rid of a ban on most semiautomatic weapons in defiance of Gov. Jim Florio, who wants the state to have the toughest gun law in the nation. A1
 
SHOREHAM FUEL TO PENNSYLVANIA
The $5.5 billion Shoreham nuclear power plant lurched a step closer to oblivion as the Long Island Power Authority announced that it had found a home for the plant's partly spent nuclear fuel. Instead of shipping the 100 tons of fuel to France at a cost of $80 million, the authority will pay the Philadelphia Electric Company $45 million to take it. A1
 
AN ACT OF REVENGE
The shootings of six people in a Mott Haven apartment and a young woman at the entrance to the Bronx County Building were twin acts of revenge rooted in a simmering rivalry between two young women over a man, the police said yesterday. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-28
 
Hotel dining recovers. C1
Theater: "Fool Moon." C1
Art: A softer Daumier. C1
 
Sports B7-13
 
Obituaries A17-18
 
Arthur Markewich, a justice on the panel that disbarred Nixon. A17
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Maiden voyage, smooth sailing.
No way to pick a comptroller.
Richard E. Mooney: The jobless.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The struggle for India.
 
Anthony Lewis: Lessons of Yugoslavia.
 
Richard Lourie: The art of interrogation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); INDIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); INDIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); SHOOTINGS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); DEPORTATION (69%); SUICIDE (67%); APPROVALS (65%); CORRUPTION (61%); SCANDALS (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



745 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Study of Drug Makers Criticizes 'Excess Profits'

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
A Congressional study of the costs of pharmaceutical development in the United States said today that even using the industry's own numbers and allowing for a substantial profit, drug companies still make "excess profits" totaling more than $2 billion a year.
The profits were excessive, the study said, in the sense that compared with other high-technology, high-risk industries that are also dependent on scientific research, like electronics, the returns in the drug business are higher by two to three percentage points a year. The study's data indicate that drug companies' average profits are in the range of 13 to 14 percent. 
 The study by the Office of Technology Assessment, a bipartisan Congressional agency, was commissioned by Representatives Henry Waxman, Democrat of California, and John Dingell, Democrat of Michigan. Mr. Waxman has been a primary critic of the drug industry.
The lead author of the study said that after four years of analysis by government, industry and consumer experts, the conclusion was that "the market for prescription drugs is broken." The authors of the study said the companies were free of constraints largely because doctors and patients had been unaware of the prices of drugs they prescribed and took.
The chief industry trade group, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, responded principally with the argument that the price increases and high profits depicted in the report were more typical of past years.
Robert Allnutt, executive vice president of the association, said in a news conference today that prices in the last year rose only about 50 percent more than inflation, the lowest increase in 15 years, and that he expected future price increases to would be even less because of the President's health-care proposals.
"High financial returns are necessary to induce companies to invest in researching new chemical entities," Mr. Allnutt said. "The study comes to inaccurate conclusions that simply do not pertain to the marketplace or industry today."
 
'Where to Look for Cuts'
 Representative Waxman, chairman of the House Health and Environment subcommittee, said at a news conference today that the report was the most comprehensive on the subject, and "tells us why drug prices are so high."
"Competition simply does not work in the market for prescription drugs," he said. "That is why prescription drugs are no longer affordable in this country."
The report, Mr. Waxman said, "tells us where to look for cuts: the excess profits which appear to be as high as $2 billion per year; the $10 billion per year spent on wasteful and detrimental advertising and promotion; the billions of dollars spent on research and development for drugs that offer no therapeutic gain."
 
Drug Industry's Response
 Mr. Allnutt of the drug makers' association said he did not dispute the methods or the numbers in the report. But he took issue with the phrase "excess profits" used by the Office of Technology Assessment, which he said might soon be transformed into "excessive profits" by advocates of price controls.
He said the report's authors, in estimating profits, should not have considered the tax breaks the industry actually received in the past. Instead, he said, they should have looked at the lower tax breaks that might be expected in the future, in order to make more realistic estimates of present-day profits.
"We can expect ferocious price competition for our products from President Clinton's proposal," he said, "That's the future. It is the past that the O.T.A. looked at."
Mr. Allnutt said that basing new policies on data from the 1980's would be like building a Pentagon budget on the assumptions of a cold war world. He also noted that 10 large companies have now voluntarily agreed to keep their price increases to the level of the Consumer Price Index, which marks the level of general inflation.
"The price increases in the industry are the lowest in the last 15 years," he said. "In the last 12 months it was 5.1 percent. That is very different from what was going on in the 1970's and 1980's."
 
Data on Rate of Increase
 Senator David Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, recently released figures on the increase in drug prices, which indicate that at the producer level prices went up 128 percent in the drug industry between 1980 and 1992, while producer prices increased only 22 percent for all products.
In 1992, the drug increases were smaller, but still four times the increase for other products. The Producer Price Index rose 1.5 percent last year, and for the drug industry alone it rose 6.4 percent.
The Office of Technology Assessment's report found little relationship between drug prices and the level of competition. One chart in the report, for example, shows that even after patent protection ends for drugs and they face competition from cheaper, generic versions, their prices do not fall. Instead, the report said, the prices continue to rise.
These are among the report's other conclusions:
*"Pharmaceutical research and development is a costly and risky business, but in recent years the financial rewards from R.& D. have more than offset its costs and risks."
*The full, after-tax cost of bringing a drug to market was $194 million, including the cost of capital. Although the industry had previously estimated the number at $259 million, Mr. Allnutt did not disagree with the new estimate.
*"In each year from 1976 through 1987, economic returns in R.& D.-intensive pharmaceutical companies were about two to three percentage points higher than those of firms in other industries" that have similar high-risk investments.
*On average, each new drug introduced to the United States market during a sample period, 1981 to 1983, will earn "at least $36 million more for its investors over its product life than is needed to pay off the R.& D. investment; this surplus return amounts to about 4.3 percent of the price of each drug over its entire product life."
*The report estimates that drug companies spend an average of about 22.5 percent of total sales on advertising and promotion. Mr. Alnutt did not dispute the number, or the estimate by Mr. Waxman that the industry spent more money on promotion than on research.
*Drug companies spent most of its efforts and money on new drugs that offer no therapeutic advantage over existing drugs; about 58 percent of new drugs may be referred to as "me too" drugs. But Mr. Allnutt said that even "me too" drugs competed in races to the marketplace, resulting in winners and losers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, OFFICE OF PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, OFFICE OF PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NEW CHEMICALS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); STATISTICS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J HENRY WAXMAN (89%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



746 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Vows to Cut $100 Billion From Clinton's Spending Proposal

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Amid a flurry of political bickering, Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader, said today that Senate Republicans would develop an alternative economic package that would slash $100 billion from the spending increases proposed by President Clinton.
Mr. Dole bristled at accusations by the Clinton Administration that Republicans are being obstructionists in criticizing the Clinton program without proposing specific cuts of their own. "It certainly does not make Republicans want to jump up and support the President if we have somebody in the communications department saying we are doing nothing but whining or carping," Mr. Dole said on the Senate floor. 
 Reminding the White House that the election campaign is over, the Kansas Republican added, "They ought to calm down, go out for a weekend, have a Diet Coke, enjoy yourself."
George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, replied, "I don't know if I'd agree with that, but it's very thoughtful advice."
 
Need for Something to Sell
 While several Republican lawmakers have come up with lists of spending cuts and alternative budget plans, the party has been slow to coalesce behind any one plan. Some Republican strategists have argued against proposing a single list of cuts, fearing they could attract the rage of special interests away from the Clinton plan. But others say the party needs something to sell as it tells Americans that the President's program will merely tax them without tackling the deficit.
Senator Dole said the Republican Party would come up with a detailed alternative, but he first wanted to see the details of the President's budget. "For starters, there is $178 billion in new spending -- we can certainly cut that back by $100 billion or so," he said in an attempt to express the broad outlines of a Republican alternative.
Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a leading Republican spokesman on economic affairs, announced a budget amendment he said he would introduce with Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, enforcing the discretionary spending caps of the 1990 budget agreement and slashing all new spending, income taxes, energy taxes and Social Security taxes in the Administration's program. "This is an amendment that would eliminate tax and spend," Mr. Gramm said.
 
The Democrats' Response
 Mr. Stephanopoulos dismissed the proposal, saying, "It's just simply the same old thing from the Republicans, and I don't think the American people elected Bill Clinton to pass the Bush 1990 economic plan."
For their part, House Democrats unleashed their own attack on an economic program offered recently by Mr. Gramm and Representative Richard Armey of Texas, chairman of the House Republican Conference, proposing an overall limit on automatic spending programs like Social Security and Medicare in an effort to reach a balanced budget by the year 2000.
Representative Mike Synar of Oklahoma, chairman of the House Democratic Study Group, said the plan was evidence that the Republican Party was being taken over by "radical libertarians" who want to destroy the modern Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY STUDY GROUP INTERNATIONAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MEDICARE (60%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); PHIL GRAMM (78%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



747 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: In Test of Serbia Embargo, U.S. Presses to Seize a Ship

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
In a test of the West's ability to enforce the embargo on trade with Serbia, the Clinton Administration has urged its allies to seize a Greek-owned ship that recently delivered goods to Yugoslavia.
American officials have alerted the NATO allies, North African countries and other nations in the Mediterranean to seize the Dimitrakis, a Greek-owned ship that is sailing under the Maltese flag, when it comes into port. 
 The seizure is necessary, the United States has told its allies, to demonstrate that the United Nations sanctions on Serbia "have teeth" and that violators will be punished.
 
Hard to Enforce
 The case of the Dimitrakis shows the difficulty Western nations have coordinating their efforts to enforce sanctions even as the Clinton Administration and key allies have stressed they are stepping up their efforts to police the trade embargo.
The hunt for the Dimitrakis comes as the United States is asking nations to impound another ship that has evaded the embargo. American officials said the Bana One, which is believed to be carrying Serbian weapons intended for Somalia, left the African coast and is headed for Singapore under a Honduran flag.
The story of the Dimitrakis began last month, when the ship steamed into the Adriatic, where NATO ships and ships from the Western European Union have been enforcing the trade sanctions against Yugoslavia.
The captain of the Dimitrakis said he was headed for Koper, Slovenia. But then the captain signaled that the vessel was in distress and needed to make an emergency stop at Bar in Montenegro. Clinton Administration officials say the ship delivered a supply of petroleum coke, which is used to refine oil, and took on a supply of lumber.
The United States wanted the vessel seized. And after the vessel left port, Italian warships seized it and towed it to Brindisi, Italy.
 
Denied Violating Sanctions
 The captain denied violating the sanctions, asserting that his cargo was confiscated and that the timber had come from Bosnia. But American officials say that is a cover story and that the timber came from Serbia.
The United States wanted the matter brought before the United Nations Sanctions Committee, established to monitor the sanctions. But the Italian Navy recently let the ship go.
American officials say Washington complained to Italy through diplomatic channels.
"We are seeking further clarification concerning the release," a senior State Department official said. "We do not like the fact that it was released."
Italian Government agencies have provided various explanations to Washington. The Italian Foreign Ministry said it was initially unaware that the vessel had left Brindisi until Washington raised the matter. The Italian Foreign Ministry said the decision was made by a local magistrate.
The head of the Italian fleet, however, said the Italian Navy let the ship go after Italian officials consulted with the United Nations and determined that there was no proof that the sanctions had been violated, an Administration official said.
 
No Official Protest
 Luca Giansanti, a spokesman for the Italian Embassy, said the Italian Defense Ministry takes the position that there was no reason to hold the ship since its papers were in order. Mr. Giansanti also said Washington has not lodged an official protest with Rome.
Washington has put out an all-points bulletin to nations in the region asking them to seize the Greek-owned vessel and impound its cargo when it comes into port, saying this is an important test of United Nations sanctions. It also has told Greece that it believes that those responsible for the violation should be prosecuted.
A Clinton Administration spokesman declined to say why the United States has not halted the ship or whether it might try to do so.
The Administration has also requested countries to detain the Bana One when it comes into port. The United States believes that the Belgrade Government is exporting the weapons in order to raise funds and purchase goods in violation of the economic sanctions.
Yugoslavia's Defense Ministry said today that Washington's assertions were part of a propaganda campaign to increase pressure on Serbia.
"Our country has for a long time exported significant amounts of modern, high-quality weapons and military equipment," Belgrade said in a statement. "Given this fact, one should not exclude the possibility of finding a certain amount of this weaponry even today planted in some cargo vessel so an inference can be drawn that we are exporting weaponry in spite of the United Nations embargo."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); ITALY (94%); AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MALTA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SOMALIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); ITALY (94%); AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MALTA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SOMALIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); NAVIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MAGISTRATES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



748 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: New Boston Garden Plan Finally Gets Green Light

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
After being deluged by calls, letters and petitions from sports-minded Bostonians, the Massachusetts Legislature passed a bill tonight allowing construction of a new sports arena to replace the 65-year-old Boston Garden, home of the basketball Celtics and the hockey Bruins.
The agreement clears the way for construction to begin in June on a $160 million arena, which will offer fans air-conditioning and seats with better views. The project will employ 700 construction workers.
 
Earlier Plan Collapsed
 The Legislature's action came less than two weeks after plans to replace the Garden collapsed when the developer backed out of the deal, contending that politicians had made unfair last-minute changes in the contract. 
 A series of meetings this week between the new arena's developer, Jeremy M. Jacobs, and legislative leaders produced an agreement, which Mr. Jacobs also approved, Lawrence C. Moulter, president of New Boston Garden Corporation, said. The new arena will be adjacent to the Garden's current location and above North Station, which is also being rebuilt.
"This is great news for fans of the Bruins and Celtics, great news for people employed at the Garden, and great news for the Massachusetts economy," Gov. William F. Weld said in a written statement. He is expected to sign the bill Friday.
 
No 'Linkage Payments'
 The legislation does not include $3.5 million in so-called linkage payments to support public swimming pools and skating rinks, a requirement Mr. Jacobs had objected to. But it does require that the Garden be available at least three times a year for charity events to benefit the commission that oversees state recreation facilities, and it requires Mr. Jacobs's company, Delaware North, to contribute $10 million to help build the adjacent train station.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON BRUINS (84%); BOSTON CELTICS (84%); BOSTON CELTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON BRUINS (84%); BOSTON CELTICS (84%); BOSTON CELTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOSTON GARDEN STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PETITIONS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); 

PERSON: JEREMY M JACOBS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



749 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
With the prospect of a new energy tax, executives in many industries are beginning to contemplate how to adjust their business strategies, pricing policies and operating plans. Some industries where energy costs are significant could be severely affected. Others could be helped. Auto makers, for example, estimate that higher gasoline prices will spur sales of smaller cars. [D1.]
Some of Japan's biggest brokerage firms were accused of violating securities laws in the United States. Yamaichi, Daiwa, Nomura and Nikko were charged with reimbursing the losses of favored customers, hiding millions in foreign-exchange losses and fraudulently buying Treasury securities. [D1.] 
 Falling mortgage rates have shaken mortgage lenders out of their traditional winter doldrums, with February applications up 30 percent from January at major institutions. [D1.]
Mutual funds that invest in municipal bonds are taking in cash from Americans at the fastest pace in history. And so are funds that invest in common stocks. [D2.]
Most states are emerging from the recession and planning their first budgets in years without big tax increases or deep cuts in programs. But they are not reducing taxes. [A16.]
 
Companies
Drug companies are making excessive profits in comparison with other high-risk industries, partly because of lack of price constraints on prescription drugs, a Congressional study says. [D1.]
The $1.7 billion General Motors fund paying benefits to about 14,000 laid-off auto workers will run out of money on March 1. But a second fund will take over payments. [D3.]
First Chicago will sell a large chunk of its troubled commercial real estate portfolio to GE Capital for 50 cents on the dollar, or a total of $500 million. [D3.]
American Airlines will "reluctantly" comply with a Justice Department consent decree that prohibits carriers from giving advance notice to travel agencies of fare changes. [D3.]
American International reported a surprising 7 percent gain in 1992 earnings, and Equitable had a lower operating loss despite a year of huge property casualty insurance claims. [D3.]
Grubb & Ellis appointed a permanent president and chief executive, replacing a temporary executive. [D3.]
 
International
The head of a huge Italian construction group was placed under house arrest in a widening scandal involving payoffs to politicians. Earlier, two senior Fiat executives were arrested and jailed. [A5.]
 
Markets
A record amount of new corporate issues flooded the bond market as borrowers continued to scramble to take advantage of low interest rates. The Treasury bond's yield was unchanged. [D1.]
Computer stocks led the stock market, offsetting declines in medical and biotechnology issues. The Dow gained 8.64 points and the Nasdaq advanced 4.61. [D4.]
Heating oil and natural gas prices jumped amid frigid temperatures in much of the nation. [D14.]
The dollar was mixed in advance of a key economic report and the Group of Seven meeting. Gold prices rose. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors continued a selloff of biotech stocks, prompted by bad news from Amgen, which said its first-quarter sales and earnings would be well below Wall Street expectations. [D4.]
A prominent creative executive is returning to her roots, leaving a big New York agency to join Frankfurt Gips Balkind. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); HEATING OIL PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); HEATING OIL (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); GOLD MARKETS (66%); SCANDALS (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); AIRLINES (63%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



750 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds Draw a Rush Of Investors

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Mutual funds that invest in municipal bonds are taking in cash from Americans at the fastest pace in history. And so are funds that invest in common stocks.
"On the bond side, it's muni-mania," Bruce Speca, an executive with the TNE Fund Group, said yesterday. He said February would be the best month ever for his group, largely because of the surge in sales of municipal bond funds. 
 Those municipal fund sales have been stimulated by talk of much higher top tax rates. President Clinton's economic plan would increase the top marginal rate from 31 percent to 39.6 percent.
In January, the Investment Company Institute reported yesterday, municipal bond funds had a net cash flow of $4.4 billion, topping the old record of $4.1 billion set in January 1987, shortly before the last big bull market in bonds came to a halt.
That same report by the trade group showed that cash flow into equity funds topped $10 billion in a month for the first time ever, at $10.2 billion. The previous record, of $9.9 billion, had been set in November.
Equity fund sales also seem to have picked up in February, notwithstanding the extraordinary jerkiness of the stock market this month. "Our equity fund sales were up 23 percent in February," said Donald Webber of State Street Research, a mutual fund company.
And there are indications it will continue. The University of Michigan survey of investors, conducted for Fidelity Investments, found that 57 percent of those who own mutual funds said they planned to buy shares in an equity fund within the next three months, while just 1 percent said they planned to sell. The purchase figure was the highest in the history of the survey, which began in 1990.
For much of the last few months, the big story in the stock market was the strong performance of small stocks, mostly traded on Nasdaq. As the cash flowed into aggressive growth mutual funds, the managers who ran the funds had trouble putting it all to work, and the cash positions of those funds grew steadily, from $7.8 billion at the end of September to $9.8 billion at the end of the year. But in January, those managers managed to invest some of that cash, and the amount fell to $9.5 billion.
That drop in available cash may have played a role in the weakness of small stocks over the last couple of weeks. But the signs are that mutual fund investors continue to like the sector. In January, $2.2 billion poured into aggressive growth funds, down slightly from $2.3 billion in December and less than the record of $2.8 billion set in November.
The two categories of less aggressive general equity funds set records. Cash flow into growth funds came to $3.4 billion, while the flow into growth and income funds hit $3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE FMR CORP (90%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); BONDS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



751 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Grumbling But Loyal To Clinton

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich., Feb. 24

 BODY:
The disenchanted Democrats here who abandoned their party in Presidential politics for more than a decade but returned last November to vote for Bill Clinton are still behind the new President, although cautiously.
A sounding of public opinion in shopping malls, coffee shops and on snow-swept sidewalks suggests that most voters are wavering between a wait-and-see attitude and strong support for Mr. Clinton and his economic program of tax increases, spending cuts and "shared sacrifice." 
 One important factor in their support is that most do not see the plan as a threat to them personally, usually because their incomes are too low.
 
'For the Working Man'
 "Clinton is more for the working man," said Kurt Hipchen, a 39-year-old sheet-metal worker who stopped with his wife to chat on the way to a movie. "He is the Democrat we have needed that we didn't have before. He offers more fair ideas and seemed more logical than the other candidates."
The Hipchens were among the Democrats here, and in similar industrial communities nationwide, who were lured to vote Republican by Ronald Reagan and had not returned to their party until last fall. These "Reagan Democrats" were the crucial component in the coalition that Mr. Clinton constructed to win. Their continuing support is now just as crucial to the new President's hopes of pushing his program through Congress.
Mr. Hipchen, and his wife, Ruthann, 35, said they did not know for sure how they would be affected by his plan, but they remained loyal. "I am very, very happy with Clinton," Ms. Hipchen said. "I hope he goes eight years."
 
Skepticism Easy to Find
 With the help of the Hipchens, Mr. Clinton carried this Detroit suburb of 145,000, as he did the State of Michigan, but he lost surrounding Macomb County. Some of the region's lingering skepticism emerged in more than two dozen interviews with Reagan Democrats.
Eddie Kincheloe, 57, said he was pleased that "people making a lot of money will get hit hardest," but he said raising taxes on anyone makes him nervous because, sooner or later, higher taxes "will be coming my way."
Mr. Kincheloe said that if he works hard this year he might make $15,000 selling family portraits in a Warren mall. "I exist, that's about all you can call it," he said.
But Dave Howard, the 40-year-old owner of a craft shop, is more typical. He said he does not make enough money to worry about paying more income taxes, but that if he must pay $150 to $200 more a year under a new energy tax, he is willing.
"Most people I've talked to have resigned themselves that raising taxes is necessary," he said. "Everybody needs to put in a little bit. I'd give Clinton an 'A' for effort and an incomplete for results."
 
Ready for 'Bitter Pill'
 Similarly, Emil Stewart, a 68-year-old bookkeeper, said he makes less than $30,000 a year, and therefore was not bothered by Mr. Clinton's program. Mr. Clinton has said his tax proposals would have their heaviest impact on families with incomes of $180,000 or more a year, and he has promised that families with incomes below $30,000 annually would feel virtually no effect.
As a nation, Mr. Stewart said, "We are going to have to swallow a bitter pill" to ease the deficit. Mr. Stewart also said Mr. Clinton's proposals seemed fairer than the programs of the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
Not all Reagan Democrats are blue-collar. Charles Leibel, 51, made as much as $60,000 a year in the 1980's as a supervisor at a company that made tractor-trailers, and he voted Republican in national elections. After Wall Street crashed in the late 1980's, he lost one job and then another and lived on unemployment for seven months.
"The supposed good times of the Reagan years really weren't very good for my family," said Mr. Leibel, who is finishing law school and earns about $22,000 working in a law firm. He voted for Mr. Clinton and called his program "a realistic approach to get us out of a mess it took 12 years to create."
"But I'd like to see more overall budget cuts before the taxes take place," he said. Mr. Leibel said he and his wife, Grace, a former teacher now working as a discount store clerk, make about $30,000 a year together and will not be seriously taxed.
 
Bracing for a Pinch
 Maryann Musial, a retired nurse, and her husband, Ted, a retired school administrator, are not wealthy but expect to feel the tax pinch. Their family income is $70,000.
Mrs. Musial said she has no regrets yet. "I have a lot of good friends who are worried about their incomes, but something has to be done," Mrs. Musial, 61, said. "I think his ideas are good."
Robert Lent, the 35-year-old manager of a printing company, said he was happy so far with most of Mr. Clinton's economic package, although he said he thought the President had become sidetracked too long on the issue of homosexuals in the military.
"It's important," said Mr. Lent, who is a veteran, "but he can help the gays, the straights, the blacks, the whites much more by getting this country moving again."
Although Mr. Lent praised the President, he added he had never believed during the campaign that Mr. Clinton would not raise taxes on the middle class. "It's not the first time we've heard a politician say they weren't going to raise taxes," Mr. Lent said. "But I don't mind one bit if he taxes the wealthy."
 
'Comrade Clinton'?
 Still, there are voters who are bitter. One termed the President "Comrade Clinton." Another man pulled his wife away by the hand, saying that after four years of Mr. Clinton the whole country would vote Republican.
As far as Catherine Gwizdala, a 79-year-old housewife living on a fixed income, is concerned, Mr. Clinton has failed the test. She said she and her husband, who watched as the Detroit automakers eliminated thousands of jobs, voted for Mr. Clinton because they wanted to see people back to work.
But when Mr. Clinton talked about more taxes, she became angry, even though she would not be greatly affected. "I think he has taken back all of his promises just to get where he is," she said. "I am very disappointed."
Her husband is in a nursing home and receives $600 a month from Social Security. She gets $200. "We can't afford to be taxed any more," she said.
 
Thinks She Made Mistake
 Helen Kaminsky, 72, said she was a loyal Democrat until Ronald Reagan, then she voted for Republicans in three elections. Last year, she liked what Mr. Clinton had to say about change and not taxing the middle class, so she returned to the Democratic Party.
"I think I made a mistake," she said. "He's hurting the little people. I was for change, but it seems like it's getting worse every day."
Mrs. Kaminsky and her husband of 53 years, Edward, said they receive no benefits from the tiny steel company they both retired from. Instead, they have to pay their own Blue Cross coverage of $310 a month. She said she cannot afford to pay a penny more in taxes or other costs.
Louis Gula, 72, retired from a job putting up billboards, said he remembered when there were manufacturing jobs for almost everyone in Detroit, but that his son had been out of work more than three years before the election. "Now, we have heard it all, and it sounds good," he said. "Let's get action. Actions speak louder than words."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I think I made a mistake. He's hurting the little people. I was for change, but it seems like it's getting worse every day." -- Helen Kaminsky, Retired steel company employee. (She is shown with her husband, Edward.); "Everybody needs to put in a little bit. I'd give Clinton an 'A' for effort and an incomplete for results." -- Dave Howard, Craft shop owner; Said raising taxes on anyone makes him nervous because, sooner or later, higher taxes "will be coming my way." -- Eddie Kincheloe, Portrait salesman. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "How 'Reagan Democrats' Voted" shows voting history of Warren, Mich., in recent Presidential elections. (Source: Macomb County)
 
Map shows location of Warren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WARREN (MICH) UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



752 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: More Americans Can Buy the Dream

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
When Karen and Seth Starr learned that they were going to have twins, their Upper West Side one-bedroom co-op started to look a bit cramped. Unhappy with the kind of house they could afford last year, they delayed buying.
But when mortgage interest rates fell sharply in the last few weeks, the couple pounced, agreeing on Tuesday to buy a house in Manhasset, L.I. 
 Yesterday, the Starrs sat in the basement of a Citibank branch on 46th Street signing a mortgage application. They were able to get a mortgage with a rate of 7.5 percent, which allowed them to spend $40,000 to $50,000 more on a house while keeping monthly payments within their budget, Mr. Starr, who is a tax planner for Morgan Stanley & Company, said.
"The lower interest rates allowed us to get a much nicer house," Mrs. Starr said.
The Starrs are but two of thousands of people who have inundated mortgage lenders recently as long-term interest rates have fallen to their lowest levels in years. At banks all over the metropolitan area, the lower interest rates have shaken lenders out of their traditional winter doldrums, with February applications up 30 percent from January at major institutions.
"Housing is more affordable than it has been at any time since the 1970's," said Ephraim Feuer, the head of home mortgages for the Republic National Bank of New York. "That is causing a lot more people to look at buying a home." Republic has seen the volume of mortgage applications jump by one third in the last two weeks.
As it was a year ago, much of this business is existing homeowners trying to take advantage of the lower rates. More significant for the long term, however, the number of people like the Starrs seeking mortgages on new home purchases is up sharply over last year, bankers said.
"Thirty percent of what we are doing is home purchases," Kim Smith, the Citibank vice president in charge of the Manhattan mortgage sales office, said. "We haven't seen that kind of volume in a long time."
 
Drawing First-Time Buyers
 Rates are low and real estate prices have stabilized, she said, and this combination was drawing first-time home buyers into the market.
"Renters are starting to see that the economics makes sense to buy a co-op," Ms. Smith said. "And when the owners can sell their co-ops they will buy houses. The whole market seems to move with the lower rates because everyone has increased buying power."
Even though the Starrs expected to sell their co-op for far less than they paid for it, Mrs. Starr, who works in sales for a computer software company, said it did not trouble her. "Rates have come down so much, that's why I'm not crying as much over our loss," she said.
Outside the Citibank conference room, half a dozen bankers who specialize in home mortgages were working phones following up on the surge in inquiries that have poured in over the last few weeks. And those inquiries are turning into applications quickly. "In January, I sourced $1.5 million in business; so far in February I've done $4.7 million," James Towers, a mortgage salesman, said.
Many of those who are refinancing are those who did not do so last year, Donna J. Dieterle, Citibank's vice president for mortgage sales in the metropolitan region, said. "A lot of people who had been kicking themselves because they didn't refinance when rates were low last year have a second chance," she said.
But as rates fall further, even those that did take advantage of the lower rates last year could save money by refinancing again. "There are some refinance addicts who are refinancing for the second time in a year," Ms. Dieterle said.
Not only are the volumes higher, so are the sizes. The average mortgage application this month has been for $180,000, up from $150,000 in January. Ms. Dieterle speculated that one reason for the jump might be that more affluent people, worried about the proposed tax increases, were looking for the mortgage interest deductions.
Yet this boom is not without its problems for bankers who have to manage the level of staff in a business where volume is tied to the roller coaster of interest rates.
"A month ago at staff meetings we were trying to figure out what we could cut if volume stayed that low," said Patrick J. McEnerney, a regional vice president at the Bank of New York Mortgage Company. "Now the conversation is how many people do we need to add."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna J. Dieterle, left, vice president for mortgage sales in metropolitan New York, and Kim Smith, vice president for mortgage sales in Manhattan, worked yesterday in the Citibank Mortgage Center in Manhattan. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (82%); HSB (PAR) (82%); HBC (NYSE) (82%); 0005 (HKSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (70%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BUDGETS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); CITIES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); TAX PLANNING (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



753 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Suggests 'Sin Tax' Increases May Be Used to Finance New Health-Care Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton strongly suggested for the first time today that he would propose higher taxes on tobacco to pay for his health-care program, and his advisers said they had long planned for such a tax.
Mr. Clinton addressed the idea of a tobacco tax increase as he continued his drive for support for his economic proposals. He appeared with two dozen business and labor leaders who endorsed the overall program that he presented to Congress last week. 
 Administration officials have floated the idea of a tax on tobacco, alcohol or some other "sin tax" for some time, but the President's comments today marked the first time he had spoken about the issue.
Asked by reporters whether he would rule out "sin taxes" because they were seen by some as an unfair burden on the middle class, Mr. Clinton replied: "I think health-related taxes are different. I think cigarette taxes, for example, are different.
"Why?" he continued. "Because I think that we are spending a ton of money in private insurance and in Government tax payments to deal with the health-care problems occasioned by bad health habits, and particularly smoking, which is costing us a lot of money."
 
No Decisions Yet
 George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said later that the President had made no decisions on which additional taxes he would propose. "I don't think I'm going to make a policy of commenting on any taxes that the President hasn't proposed," he said.
But Mr. Stephanopoulos made no effort to distance the White House from the idea of a tobacco tax, in contrast to strenuous efforts by officials last week to minimize Mr. Clinton's suggestion that a national sales tax might be needed soon.
And Leon E. Panetta, the White House budget director, said in an interview that officials who drafted the economic program specifically excluded new tobacco and alcohol taxes because they were saving those as a means of helping to pay for the health proposal. Mr. Panetta echoed the President in saying it made sense to put extra taxes on things that by their nature create health problems.
Though his advisers have discussed higher taxes on alcohol as well as cigarettes, Mr. Clinton later sought to emphasize that his comments were about cigarettes, not an alcohol tax. "We didn't say that," he said of an alcohol levy when asked about it during a picture-taking session. "I specifically passed up a chance to say that today."
Polls have shown that as far as taxes go, "sin taxes" are well received by the public. Administration officials have also considered a tax on workers' health benefits to help pay for Mr. Clinton's proposal to provide health care for uninsured Americans.
 
No Added Spending Cuts
 While Mr. Clinton said this week that he was considering more spending cuts, he was not willing today to respond to Republicans who were calling for him to propose such reductions immediately.
"Like what?" he asked a reporter. "Like what? I mean, unlike a lot of these other people, I worked for weeks and weeks and weeks on this budget."
The President went on to say: "I have a difficult time taking these people seriously who say we should have more spending cuts, who were here for the last 12 years. Where were they? Anyone can say whatever they want about more spending cuts, but why are you asking me? Why don't you ask them?"
Explaining that he was not ready now to lay out more cuts, Mr. Clinton said: "Some people think that we should abolish the Superconducting Supercollider, or the space station program. But I honestly don't agree with that."
Some of the many business and labor leaders who gathered at the Old Executive Office Building next to the White House to endorse Mr. Clinton's economic program had attended his conference on the economy in Little Rock, Ark., last December.
"We support the President's deficit reduction package as it now stands," said August A. Busch 3d, the president of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, who added that the President had a "bold approach."
While he said there was wide backing for the plan, Harold A. Poling, the chairman of the Ford Motor Company, said, "it is essential that spending cuts be approved at the same time as the tax program."
Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the plan set the country "on the right course for the future," although he expressed concern about the one-year freeze on salaries of Federal employees.
In his address, Mr. Clinton repeated his promise that "I don't want new taxes unless we are going to have spending cuts."
There was a line missing, however, from the remarks he had made in recent appearances. He has cited the continued existence of the Bicentennial Commission, which was set up to coordinate activities for the 1976 Bicentennial, as an example of how the Government starts a program, then never stops it.
But after a report today in The Washington Post that the commission had been abolished last June and that $1.6 million in unspent money had been returned to the Treasury, the White House acknowledged that Mr. Clinton had been misinformed.
"He was ill-staffed," Mr. Stephanopoulos said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton suggested that he would seek higher tobacco taxes as he met with business and labor leaders who endorsed his economic plan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); SMOKING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SMOKING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



754 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and Yeltsin to Hold Summit Meeting April 4

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Feb. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia will hold their first summit meeting on April 4, in a third country still undisclosed, the United States and Russia announced today.
The summit meeting, which is expected to be Mr. Clinton's first overseas trip as President, reflects what Administration officials said was his desire to bolster the standing of Mr. Yeltsin amid increasing challenges to his authority by Russians who oppose dramatic and sudden political changes. 
 The holding of a meeting is also described by officials as part of an evolving American approach that in the absence of major new economic aid, is intended to blend political, diplomatic and technical assistance and elevate Moscow to the level of a partner from that of a poor cousin of Washington.
Officials said that the summit meeting, which is likely to last only one day, is timed to provide crucial support for Mr. Yeltsin just one week before a Russian referendum on whether he or the Parliament that increasingly challenges him should wield more power and influence.
 
Little Said Since Election
 In the Presidential campaign last year, Mr. Clinton stated that "no national security issue is more urgent" than promoting reform in the former Soviet Union, but in his determination to remain focused on the domestic economy, has said nothing of substance on the subject since the election.
The announcement of the summit meeting was made here by Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev after three hours of meetings.
"It is of the utmost importance to the United States -- indeed to the world -- that President Yeltsin's reforms succeed," Mr. Christopher said at a joint news conference. "A strong and cooperative U.S.-Russian relationship of general partnership is of the highest priority for Mr. Clinton and his Administration."
Mr. Kozyrev described the summit meeting as "a major event that would make it possible" to broaden and speed up cooperation between the countries. He added that the American side suggested an even earlier date, but that the Russians felt they needed more time to prepare.
Mr. Christopher telephoned Mr. Clinton shortly after the meeting, and the President "stressed the importance of doing what we can to help reform succeed in the Soviet Union," a senior Administration said tonight.
 
No Pause in Policy
 To this end, Mr. Christopher assured his Russian counterpart that there would be no "pause" in American foreign policy the way there was when George Bush took office and his Administration began a review that froze policy for months.
One illustration of the American intention to elevate the Russians as negotiating partners came in another announcement today by the two officials. The United States and Russia, as co-sponsors of the Middle East peace negotiations, will invite the parties back to the negotiating table in April and will step up their role as "honest brokers" in the talks, the officials said.
Mr. Kozyrev also disclosed that the Russians would invite the Palestinians -- presumably a Palestine Liberation Organization delegation that could be led by Yasir Arafat -- to Moscow to persuade them to end their boycott of the talks.
Before Mr. Christopher left Jerusalem this morning, he gave reporters traveling with him no indication that the United States was ready to restart the talks by jointly issuing invitations with the Russians. In explaining why he did not do so today, he left the impression that it was a last-minute decision.
The United States had been "consulting closely with the Palestinians last night and again this morning, and all I can say at the present time is that we felt confident enough about the situation that we think the next round of negotiations should commence in April," he said, adding that the United States has been in contact with the Russians along the way.
Indeed, Mr. Christopher began working on the issue at 4 A.M., making phone calls to Israel and other countries and sending cablegrams to all the Middle Eastern leaders he visited to alert them to the expected announcement, a senior Administration official said.
 
Playing Down Deportee Issue
 Mr. Kozyrev today played down the significance of the 400 Palestinians deported by Israel to Lebanon in December. Their continued deportation has kept the Palestinians away from the talks.
Despite increasing pressure by nationalists to chart an independent course in Russia's foreign policy, Mr. Kozyrev, in another conciliatory gesture toward Washington, said Moscow approved of Mr. Clinton's plan to airdrop food into Bosnia and Herzegovina. It "goes in a positive direction," he said, adding that the world should "use all possible channels to deliver aid" through the United Nations.
But at the top of the Russian agenda today, and at the coming summit talks, will be what Russia says it needs to move along its reforms, including, among other things, its desire to reschedule its foreign debt of about $75 billion and to sell more of its conventional weapons to third countries. He argued that such arms sales, far from violating arms control agreements, would promote "overall stabilization" as long as the arms were sold to what he called "appropriate clients."
The United States is willing to help on the debt issue, senior Administration officials have said in recent weeks. The new Administration also intends to increase pressure on the the International Monetary Fund to treat Russia as a special case and loosen lending restrictions, and will move to strengthen the Group of Seven industrialized countries on Russian aid issues.
 
Arms Sales Opposed
 But the Administration has no intention of blessing Russian arms sales abroad, even though the United States continues to sell billions of dollars in conventional weapons to its allies. Mr. Christopher told Mr. Kozyrev that although the Administration has a strong commitment to keeping reform alive, it also has a strong commitment to non-proliferation, a senior Administration official said, adding, "There is a dilemma here and a potential conflict, but Secretary Christopher and Minister Kozyrev worked hard to at least establish where the two sides are."
Other arms control issues, particularly the arms treaty that was signed by President Bush and Mr. Yeltsin in Moscow in January, will also be discussed at the summit meeting.
Mr. Christopher also told Mr. Kozyrev that Mr. Clinton wants to discuss at the summit the human rights of the 25 million Russians living in the 14 other independent former Soviet republics, a senior Administration official said. The Secretary made no specific commitment on the amount of American aid the new Administration is prepared to give to Russia, adding that what really matters over the long run is to make Russia attractive to foreign investment.
Strobe Talbott, the Ambassador at Large for Russia and the other new nations, was in Geneva as a special consultant to Mr. Christopher, but did not attend any of the meetings because he has not been confirmed by the Senate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia, left, announced that President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin will hold their first summit meeting in April. Mr. Christopher and Mr. Kozyrev talked to reporters yesterday after a meeting in Geneva. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); REFERENDUMS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



755 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for Shock of Energy Tax

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

 BODY:
The energy tax that President Clinton proposed last week would ripple through various industries in different ways. And from Maine to Washington State, executives are beginning to contemplate how to shift their strategies, pricing policies and operating plans to adjust to a tax on most energy consumption.
For some industries, energy represents a small fraction of costs. But for others, like aluminum manufacturing and airlines, it eats up a sizable share of revenues. Such a tax would also affect the cost of moving goods, and in some cases consumers' choices. Auto makers, for example, say a rise in gasoline prices of 8 cents a gallon or more by 1996 would spur sales of smaller cars. 
 The energy tax would be based on the energy content of nearly all fuels, as measured in British thermal units -- the heat required to raise the temperature of a pound of water by 1 degree Fahrenheit. The tax would be phased in starting next year and would take full effect in 1996.
Executives in some industries count on passing higher prices along to customers, but where that is not possible, they may have to pay for some of the tax out of their own earnings until they can cut costs. In industries like airlines and chemicals, market leaders say the extra tax will weigh heaviest on weaker rivals.
Here is a sampling of how executives in seven industries plan to cope if the energy tax becomes law:
 
Improving Mileage of Cars
Energy experts say Mr. Clinton's energy tax could add 8 to 12 cents to the price of a gallon of gasoline, and auto manufacturers and dealers expect that the tax will accelerate the shift by consumers toward smaller and more fuel-efficient cars. Some manufacturers, like the Ford Motor Company, were already beginning to look harder in that direction, and the tax could accelerate improvements in efficiency.
Ford, for example, said it was already gearing up to produce more of its smaller models, including the Ford Escort and Tempo and the Mercury Topaz, at the expense of bigger cars.
"The percentage of cars in the small end of the market will go up," said Dave Kulp, the company's manager of fuel-economy planning and compliance. He added, "We have available capacity to produce more."
Ford is also working on several design changes in aerodynamics, tires and transmissions to improve the fuel efficiency of all models, Mr. Kulp said.
 
Air Fares Likely to Rise
The nation's airlines have lost $6 billion in the last three years. Now they must calculate how much they can raise fares to recover increased jet-fuel taxes without losing too many passengers. In the short term, industry executives do not see much in the way of cost savings from more efficient engines or other improvements. The Air Transport Association estimates that the industry will pay $1.2 billion in higher costs when the tax reaches full force in 1997.
The tax would add "tens of millions of dollars" to costs at American Airlines, said Al Becker, a spokesman. Yet the nation's largest airline would not cancel flights or reduce service in other ways because of the tax alone, he said. "This energy tax is not going to persuade us to do something that we would not otherwise do," Mr. Becker said.
Southwest Airlines, the only profitable major airline in the last three years -- and the one with the lowest costs -- could possibly benefit if weaker carriers pull out of busy markets. "Obviously, when you are doing well and still growing, there is an advantage" when weaker carriers are forced to retreat, said Gary Kelly, chief financial officer of Southwest.

Utilities Plan to Pass Tax On
Utility executives, like those in other industries, are looking at a strategy of cutting costs and raising prices to cover the cost of a new energy tax.
In Michigan, which ranks No. 8 among the states in energy consumption, executives at the CMS Energy Corporation estimate that the proposed tax would push the company's costs up 5 percent. Including a higher corporate tax, costs would rise by a total of 7 percent. CMS provides electricity and natural gas to busineses and consumers in central Michigan.
William T. McCormick, the company's chairman, said CMS would pass the costs to customers through higher rates. Yet growth of demand will gradually slow or even decline because higher costs would make business customers less competitive. Then, he said, they "will not be able to afford as much energy."
Residential customers, though, normally do not cut back on heating, cooking, television viewing and other energy-consuming activities when prices rise, he said.
The Detroit Edison Company, which supplies electricity to 1.9 million customers in southeastern Michigan, said it would step up cost-cutting programs as one response to the Clinton energy tax.
Recent programs enabled the utility to pare electric bills by an average of 5 percent, starting last month. Still, Detroit Edison intends to charge customers for its rising costs from an energy tax, said Robert Dobkin, a spokesman. Most consumers will not cut consumption, he said, despite efforts by Detroit Edison to encourage conservation.
 
Truckers Plan to Cut Costs
The trucking industry anticipates a $3 billion increase in costs from the energy tax at a time when its yearly profits are about $5 billion.
William M. Clifford, president and chief excutive of the St. Johnsbury Trucking Company, in Holliston, Mass., estimated that the energy tax would add $90,000 a month to his company's costs. The privately held company, which ranks about 10th among the nation's trucking concerns, has yearly revenues of $300 million.
"It's a buyer's market, so we won't be able to pass on those costs to our customers," Mr. Clifford said. But he dreads trying to find ways to reduce the company's costs.
"We just went through a recapitalization of this company," he said. "We were not generating a profit. I had to cut costs, lay off people. It was very unpleasant. Certainly, our plans have to change."
 
Burden on Aluminum Makers
As big consumers of energy, the aluminum industry would find the energy tax a substantial burden. At the Intalco Aluminum plant in Ferndale, Wash., for example, the tax would increase electricity costs by perhaps $10 million a year, and add 11 percent to production costs. And Noel Shelton, power manager of the plant, said the higher costs could cause Intalco to lose sales to rivals across the border in Canada, whose prices would likely be harder to match or undercut.
Producers in Canada and elsewhere built large, modern plants in the late 1980's, and many pay less for power to make a pound of aluminum than do manufacturers in the United States, Mr. Shelton said.
Energy conservation programs at Intalco, a subsidiary of Alumax, "have gone about as far as we can go," he said. "If we make any further electricity cuts, we would have to reduce our plant output."
 
Refiners See Flat Demand
Petroleum refiners have had slack demand and slim profits for the last few years. For most refiners, a new tax of about $3.50 a barrel -- the level that would be reached in 1996 under the President's proposal -- would far exceed the current profit on each barrel, which has been less than $1 a barrel. But industry executives expressed doubts that the full cost of an energy tax could be passed to customers in all parts of the country.
"The markets aren't any good right now," said John R. Hall, chairman and chief executive of the Ashland Oil Company, the nation's largest independent oil refiner, based in Ashland, Ky.
On the West Coast, where refiners export a sizable portion of the gasoline, jet and diesel fuel, and other products they produce, executives are concerned that the extra cost of the tax would make their products less competitive abroad.
In periods of slack demand, such as January and February when gasoline demand falls, West Coast refiners export from 10 to 30 percent of their output of all fuels, mainly to East Asia, said Kenneth Riley, vice president of business management and new ventures for the ARCO Products Company. The refining and marketing unit of ARCO Inc. is based in Los Angeles.
"Every bit of common sense says that exports should be exempted from the tax," Mr. Riley said.
But Bruce Pasternack, senior vice president and managing partner of the energy group at Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc., the accounting and consulting firm, said most other refiners -- whose products are sold largely within the United States -- would probably not lose customers by raising prices apace with taxes.
A price increase for gasoline of 7 or 8 cents a gallon will lower demand by less than 1 percent, or fewer than 100,000 barrels a day, he said. "If you think about gasoline prices, month to month and year to year, they fluctuate by at least that much," he said.
 
Chemical Exports May Fall
Chemical manufacturers consume 7 percent of the nation's total energy supplies. Half of that amount goes into feedstocks, mainly crude oil and natural-gas products, that are excluded from the Clinton energy tax. But the other half -- the power consumed by production equipment -- would be subject to the tax. And the Chemical Manufacturers Association estimates that the tax would increase the industry's annual fuel bill of $10 billion by about 12 percent.
Most chemical makers invested heavily in energy-conservation equipment during the last 20 years, and some companies said that continued improvements should cover some portion of the higher energy costs. Officials at Elf Atochem North America's plant in Tacoma, Wash., expect that over the next 10 years energy efficiency programs will cut more than $33,000 from monthly electric bills that currently average about $600,000.
The company, a unit of France's oil giant, Elf Aquitaine, is spending $5.8 million on programs that are projected to cut power consumption by 20 megawatts over 10 years.
"A tax could be a sizable figure," said Edward Lowe, operations manager. "But our competitors also are located within this country. If all energy ratios go up proportionately, we'd still be in the same competitive position. Our tax would be passed on to our customers."
But an energy tax could cause troubles for exporters. "As our costs go up in the U.S., that digs into our worldwide competitiveness," said Vince F. Villani, a vice president in the industrial chemicals division of the Union Carbide Corporation. Union Carbide, a low-cost producer, could gain sales and markets if higher costs from the energy tax cause uneconomical plants in the United States to close, he said.
The chemical industry is the nation's biggest export sector, larger than agriculture, producing a surplus of $16.3 billion last year, down from $18.8 billion in 1991. "We're forecasting further declines this year, without an energy tax," said Allen Lenz, chief economist for the industry trade group.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Our competitors also are located within this country," said Edward Lowe, operations manager of an Elf Atochem plant. "If all energy ratios go up proportionately, we'd still be in the same competitive position." (Duncan Livingston for The New York Times) (pg. D1); William M. Clifford, chief executive of St. Johnsbury Trucking, said the proposed energy tax would add $90,000 a month to his company's costs. (Brian Brainerd for The New York Times) (pg. D2)
 
Graph: "Manufacturers' Energy Tax Exposure" shows energy as a percentage of manufacturing costs in select industries (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ALUMINUM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ENERGY AND POWER PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AIRLINES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); TAX LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (76%); JET FUEL (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); AIR FARES (71%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (70%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



756 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Irate Soldiers Seize Zaire Parliament

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Hundreds of heavily armed soldiers have seized control of the Parliament building here and are holding hostage several hundred members of Zaire's Parliament, demanding that the lawmakers approve new bank notes as legal currency.
Officials inside the building, contacted by telephone, said the soldiers have told them that they would not be allowed to leave until the Parliament issues orders requiring local merchants to accept the new high-denomination bank notes. The bills, with which the soldiers are being paid their monthly salary, were issued by Zaire's central bank, which is under the direct control of President Mobutu Sese Seko. 
 The 5-million-zaire bills are supposedly worth $2 each, but in fact they are almost impossible to use because most merchants, heeding the advice of Mr. Mobutu's main political foe, Prime Minister Etienne Tshisekedi, have refused to honor them.
 
An Earlier Riot
 In a similar episode three weeks ago, soldiers rioted after being paid in the new notes, closing Kinshasa's airport and the port on the Congo River and looting stores and houses. As the pillaging and unrest spread, France and Belgium flew in hundreds of troops to evacuate their citizens from Zaire. At least 300 people are believed to have died in the melee.
The latest demands were issued when Zairean troops, some accompanied by their wives and children, blocked all entrances to the People's Palace conference hall, using large-caliber weapons and armored cars. As news of the encirclement spread, there reportedly was panic inside the conference center, where members of the Parliament were in session. But witnesses said there were no immediate signs of violence.
Today, hundreds of soldiers and their families were camped out inside the eight-foot-high fence surrounding the Parliament building. In the outside perimeter, street merchants gathered to sell food -- mostly bread and dried fish -- to those inside. But diplomats said there was no running water inside, and some of the hostages needed medical care.
 
America Backs Interim Rule
 Zaire's main Western donors -- the United States, France and Belgium, the former colonial power in Zaire -- have repeatedly expressed support for Mr. Tshisekedi and members of the interim government, known as the High Council of the Republic. The Western allies have already suspended aid to Zaire and are considering economic and political sanctions, to force Mr. Mobutu, who has ruled Zaire for 28 years, to accept democratic changes.
Under pressure, Mr. Mobutu agreed in 1991 to yield much of his administration's power to an interim government until multiparty elections could be held. But he has since resisted following through on his pledge and in a pointed rebuke to Western donors three weeks ago, Mr. Mobutu dismissed Mr. Tshisekedi as Prime Minister, blaming his longtime foe for the earlier violence over the bank notes.
The High Council was believed to be discussing whether to name a new Prime Minister when troops seized control of the building. Diplomats who have been in contact with the lawmakers inside the conference center said the soldiers have demanded that the Parliament leader, Joseph Ileo, read a statement on state radio approving the use of the new bank notes. The 72-year-old Mr. Ileo has insisted that he does not have the authority to make such a declaration.
Several African and Western diplomats voiced concern today that violence could easily erupt again unless the pay dispute was resolved soon. What has made the situation all the more explosive, the diplomats said, is that the country is seemingly leaderless. President Mobutu left Zaire last Friday for dental treatment in France. He is expected to remain at his villa on the Cote d'Azur near Monte Carlo at least until the weekend.
Meanwhile, Mr. Tshisekedi has cloistered himself in his residence near the outskirts of Kinshasa and has yet to make any public comments about the hostage seizure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); BELGIUM (70%); 

STATE: CONGO RIVER (58%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); BELGIUM (70%); CONGO RIVER (58%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; HOSTAGES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; CURRENCY ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RIOTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); FAMILY (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); TSHISEKEDI, ETIENNE (PRIME MIN) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



757 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK;
In Japan, Dinkins's Lessons in Contrasts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan, Feb. 25

 BODY:
In his travels through Japan, Mayor David N. Dinkins's deepest contact with the realities of urban life here -- and the contrasts with his own city -- probably came in Kazuko Mishimura's sixth-grade mathematics class at the Chuo Elementary School.
When Mr. Dinkins stepped into the public school in the heart of the city's most densely packed neighborhood, the students had just taken a break from some fairly complicated geometry lessons that were still perfectly sketched across the blackboard. Each of them was dressed in the school uniform: blue blazers for everyone, red bows and skirts for the girls, red bow ties and shorts for the boys. Their identical leather book bags were stored in neat rows against the back wall. This was no show for the Mayor: Walk into any Japanese school and the scene is the same.
 
Comparing Urban Living
 "I can see this is not a school with a discipline problem," Mr. Dinkins said later as he made his way down the corridors, which are lined with the shoes the students take off before they step into the classrooms. 
If there was a lesson in comparative urban living in Mr. Dinkins's travels, it hit home hardest here. While Japanese schools are hardly without their problems -- school bullying among them -- to Mr. Dinkins and his staff, Chuo Elementary seemed like heaven. Only hours before, Mr. Dinkins had been informed of the latest killing in a junior high school back home, the killing of an emotionally handicapped special education student during a dispute. Another student has been charged in the killing.
 
No Metal Detectors Here
 Mr. Dinkins was quick to condemn the slaying and to wonder aloud at "the depth of the anger or frustration or fear which leads one youngster to take another's life."
But he noted, "No matter how many metal detectors we put in the schools, no matter how much security, it cannot prevent youngsters from involving themselves in violent activity."
Needless to say, schools in Japan have no metal detectors, but schools here also play a very different role than they do in America. Record-setting mathematics scores aside, classrooms like Ms. Mishimura's are where the lessons of social control that make Japan one of the world's most crime-free industrial societies -- and also one of its most socially repressed -- begin. Children, and their parents, feel the weight of social opprobrium for the slightest step out of line: mothers have been known to be called in for a talking-to if their children arrive in unpressed uniforms, or without the right supplies.
Mr. Dinkins received a taste of the regimentation at lunch time, when he sat down for some soup and hamburger steak with a class of third graders.
"I drank all my milk," he announced proudly at the end. Unfortunately, he didn't take off his shoes.
 
Meeting One Next to Royalty
 During their sweep through Tokyo, Mr. Dinkins and his entourage met a parade of Japan's most instantly recognizable faces. There was Akio Morita, the white-haired founder of Sony and premier handler of foreign guests. There was Kiichi Miyazawa, the Prime Minister who, like the Mayor, is known first for his geniality.
Then there was Akebono, the 470-pound sumo star whose assistant wrestlers boosted the Mayor on their shoulders so that he could face off eye-to-eye with Akebono, the first foreigner ever named a sumo grand champion.
But the most memorable meeting for many in the entourage was with Hisashi Owada, the vice minister of foreign affairs. Until lately, Mr. Owada was not exactly a household name in Japan.
But these days Mr. Owada is known throughout the country as the father of the future empress: His 29-year-old daughter Masako, a Harvard graduate and diplomat in her own right, is engaged to Crown Prince Hiro, the son of Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko.
Speaking to Mayor Dinkins and his party of New York business executives, Mr. Owada, a former New Yorker not known for enthusiastic outbursts, declared, "I love New York." Immediately Lewis Rudin, the head of the Rudin Management Corporation and the longtime president of the Association for a Better New York, untied his "I <heart> New York" necktie and handed it to Mr. Owada as a gift.
"So Mr. Owada took off his own necktie and gave it to me," Mr. Rudin recalled. "Then he told me it had been given to him by his daughter."
That night, at a reception for Mr. Dinkins, Mr. Owada showed up with his new tie boldly in place. But Mr. Rudin had already put the future empress's selection in safe storage.
"I think I'm going to frame it," he said.
 
And How's He Doing?
 At one point during the Mayor's travels through Tokyo one of his aides asked how the event was being covered in the Japanese press. His hosts did not know quite how to say that the country's giant newspapers -- with circulations far larger than any dailies in the United States -- were not exactly splashing him over the front pages.
Searching for a diplomatic way to put things, one of them explained that Mr. Dinkins was getting about the same level of coverage that Shunichi Suzuki, the octogenarian governor of Tokyo, would expect in the American papers during his visits to New York. There was a long silence, and then everyone changed the topic.
 
Platitudes, Gifts and Gaffes
 There are two critical rituals of building relationships in Japan, and Mr. Dinkins was ready for both of them: Giving empty speeches and exchanging endless gifts.
Mr. Dinkins came armed with enough platitudes for his guests to enter the Japanese political world, where one rises by offending no one. At just the right moments he marveled at the efficiency of Tokyo's city services, the vastness of the landfill in Osaka harbor where a huge airport is under construction, and the skill of the parade of kimono-wearing young women who performed a tea ceremony in his honor. (By the time he was served tea today, the Mayor had even mastered one of the finer points: Always rotate the tea cup a half turn before you sip, so that the decorative side faces your hosts.)
He also knew what to avoid. Mr. Dinkins never engaged his hosts in Tokyo and Osaka in a discussion about why Japanese cities are virtually devoid of green space, with only a fraction of the park space per person that one finds in New York. He asked few questions about Japan's low crime rates.
When a young Japanese boy who founded the "Association to Stop Racism Against Blacks" came by to visit his hotel, he steered clear of any questions about discrimination in Japan -- against blacks, Koreans or the burakumin, a little-discussed but oppressed group that has traditionally performed much of the society's dirty work, from making leather to burying the dead. Rather, he concentrated on "arigato gozaimashita" -- thank you -- until he had it all down except the reflexive bow.
The gift-giving, an art form in Japan, was considerably more complicated. When Mr. Dinkins fills out his customs forms, he will be listing a lot of traditional Japanese dolls, traditional Japanese prints, and cards filled with Japanese calligraphy. He came well prepared: For the students at Chuo Elementary, there were New York Yankee baseball caps (in un-Yankee pink) and official David N. Dinkins note pads with etchings of City Hall on every page.
For officials, there were Tiffany's blue boxes containing a variety of gifts -- impressive, unless one stops to consider that Japanese interests own a good-sized chunk of Tiffany's. There were many bottles of New York wine.
And every once in a while there was the gaffe of unequal giving. The head of Takashimaya Department Store, which is about to open a $100 million outlet in New York, gave the Mayor a striking piece of modern statuary. In return, he received a paperback book about New York. But the executive, well trained in school, never stopped smiling.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor David N. Dinkins getting a lift from sumo wrestlers on one of many stops he and his party of New York business executives made in Tokyo. (pg.B1); Mayor David N. Dinkins donned a proper cap at the Barneys New York department store in Tokyo. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CITY LIFE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (77%); GEOMETRY (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); HOMICIDE (69%); TRENDS (67%); BULLYING (67%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (52%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



758 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: State Budgets Mending After Years of Surgery

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
Finally emerging from the recession, nearly all the states are planning their first budgets in years without big tax increases or deep cuts in programs.
But they are not celebrating their recovery by reducing taxes, as they usually do after a recession, according to a report being published today. Very few states are starting new programs, and most are still reducing spending to cope with the continuing sharp increases in health-care costs and prison populations. Nor are they certain that the gain in tax collections that most of them saw late last year will last. 
 "State budgets are on the gurney being wheeled out of the hospital," said Ronald K. Snell, fiscal program director of the National Conference of State Legislatures. "This is the first year of the recovery for state budgets, but they're not in full recovery and they're certainly not back to health."
Today the conference is making public a survey of the 50 states that provides the year's first comprehensive look at their economic condition and their outlook for the coming fiscal year, which begins July 1 for most states.
 
Paying Taxes Early
 The recession continues unabated in Maine and California, and some other states are struggling. Elsewhere, Mr. Snell, who directed the conference's survey, said there is not enough current information, particularly about unemployment rates, to assess the states' economic health.
"We found no regional patterns," he said, "but there is a clear national trend of recovery, and the national trend is the most important factor for any state's economy."
The strength of the states' recovery remains uncertain, Mr. Snell said. In particular, some state officials believe that tax collections surged in the last months of 1992 because many affluent taxpayers who have the ability to shift their income chose to pay their taxes early in anticipation of higher Federal taxes in 1993. State revenue, in the doldrums for the first nine months of the year, rose by nearly 6 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with that of 1991.
In New York State, for example, income tax payments rose 20 percent in the final quarter as businesses and individual taxpayers, expecting higher tax rates in 1993, took profits early but postponed tax-deductible expenses, said James W. Wetzler, State Commissioner of Taxation and Finance. "I call that the Clinton effect," he said, "and I think it's causing a lot of undue optimism in the wind."
 
States Like Clinton's Plan
 Other state officials are more positive. They are particularly pleased by President Clinton's economic plan, which would provide billions of dollars for public works and education and end a 12-year pattern of shifting responsibility for costly programs from Washington to the states. And even if the recovery is not explosive, they say, at least it is a recovery.
"This is the first year since the economic downturn began in 1987 that New York State will not have to borrow money to cover a year-end deficit," said Claudia S. Hutton, a spokeswoman for the state budget office. She was referring to New York's fiscal year 1993, which ends March 31.
David K. Coburn, director of Florida's Office of Planning and Budget, said, "This is the first time in three years that we have been in a position to actually fund some things, instead of telling people we're cutting, cutting, cutting."
Thirty states, including some of those hit hardest by the recession, have projected a revenue increase in the fiscal year 1994 by two or more times the rate of inflation, which is expected to be 2.85 percent. Ten states expect revenue to grow more slowly than the rate of inflation. Only three states expect no growth in revenue or an actual decline: they are Maine and Vermont, whose economies are still depressed, and Texas, which may lose $400 million a year when a special sales tax expires in June.
With such generally optimistic forecasts, few states are raising taxes by any significant amount. But many governors and legislatures are trying to hold onto surcharges or temporary taxes that are due to expire.
"Fiscal 1994 looks like a year where states are hunkering down, trying to hold the line and making very few initiatives," Mr. Snell said.
 
'Election-Year Budgets' Cited
 States are less well off than might be expected because 1992 was an election year, said Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States at Rockefeller Institute in Albany. "The election-year budgets were full of quick fixes and accounting gimmicks," he said. "So that means they're starting behind the eight ball in fiscal 1994."
California remains in the grip of a recession caused, in part, by the loss of 800,000 jobs, largely in the military industry. At the same time, sharp growth in the state's population, amounting to an influx of 1,700 new residents a day, continues to strain social service programs.
The 1994 fiscal year is shaping up to be a replay of last year's budget woes, with the state facing an accumulated deficit of $8.6 billion in a $70 billion budget, according to the survey by the conference of legislatures.
Gov. Pete Wilson opposes raising taxes or fees and has urged that the number of state employees, now 128,000, be cut by 15 percent.
 
Hard Times in Maine
 Proportionately, Maine is even worse off. The state faces a $1.2 billion shortage in its $3 billion combined budget for the fiscal years 1994 and 1995. The state's once-booming real estate industry is in depression and revenue has been shrinking since 1989, said Dale F. Doughty, deputy commissioner of the Maine Department of Administration and Finance.
"Every department in the state government is undergoing very, very careful scrutiny by the Legislature and the Governor's office," he said, "and every cut that can be tolerated is being made to bring about a balanced budget without any tax increases."
Even his own job will probably be eliminated when he retires this year, Mr. Doughty said.
 
Challenges in Colorado
 The new year also brings new problems. Colorado, for example, was struggling to cope with a $300 million shortfall in the fiscal year 1994 even before last November, when voters approved a ballot initiative requiring that all new taxes be approved by popular vote. Among other things, state officials may cut are considering reducing school aid by 6.9 percent, or $121 million, at a time when they had hoped to increase it. "You bet we're challenged," said Gov. Roy Romer.
Florida expects the nation's largest percentage growth in revenue, nearly 10 percent, largely as a result of sales taxes generated by rebuilding efforts after Hurricane Andrew struck South Florida last August. But even so, there is not nearly enough money, said Gov. Lawton Chiles.
"We've got a billion dollars more in our budget than last year, but all the money is eaten up by an 18 percent growth in health care costs, by 40,000 new welfare cases and by 70,000 new students in primary and secondary schools," the Governor said. "We're better off than in the last two years, but it's just like we're still going around on a wheel, not making progress."
Even with more revenue, the state needs to reduce spending by $200 million and raise $290 million in new sales taxes to balance the $13.5 billion general fund budget, Mr. Chiles said.
The effort to make government more efficient continues. In New Jersey, which has already eliminated 10,000 of its 70,000 state jobs since 1990, there are plans to eliminate 4,500 more jobs, mostly by attrition. At the same time, Gov. Jim Florio wants to put away $50 million in a new reserve fund and spend $400 million more on buildings and highways.
In Pennsylvania, Gov. Robert P. Casey has proposed a $637 million cut in medical assistance programs, but even so, health care costs will rise by 9 percent next year, to $2.3 billion, more than 15 percent of the state's $14.9 billion general fund. "Obviously, something had to be done to tame the health care monster," Mr. Casey said.

GRAPHIC: Map/Diagram: "Growth in State Coffers" shows forcasts for growth of each state's general fund revenues in 1994 compared with an estimated inflation rate of 2.85 percent. (Source: National Conference of State Legislatures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TRENDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); PRISONS (56%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



759 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
An Idealist's New Task: To Revamp Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
He made radical changes in the curriculum at Brown University. He led a band of young idealists working for social change in Brockton, Mass. He tried unsuccessfully to make his home state of Rhode Island into a laboratory for his theory of industrial policy.
And now he is trying to revamp the nation's health-care system. Ira C. Magaziner is President Clinton's senior adviser for policy development. But he works mostly for Hillary Rodham Clinton in her effort to devise a plan to control health costs and guarantee health care for all Americans. 
 Mr. Magaziner, who is 45, is variously described as a complex, intense man; a shy, eccentric genius; a harsh taskmaster who works harder than anyone on his staff.
"Ira is a nonlinear thinker," said Stephen H. Crolius, a 37-year-old consultant at Telesis, a company founded by Mr. Magaziner. "Most people are used to thinking in terms that proceed logically from A to B to C to D. Ira can go immediately from A and B to G."
 
'An Outsider in Washington'
 Following an edict he imposed on other officials, Mr. Magaziner refused to discuss the Administration's health-policy review. By his own account he is "an outsider in Washington," a novice in the capital's corridors of power. But he presides over a policy-making apparatus like nothing seen here in decades: more than 300 economists, health-policy experts, Government employees and consultants racing to assemble a major health-care proposal by May 1.
"He is worth several million dollars, but I think he owns one rumpled suit, which he doesn't press," said Mark Patinkin, who wrote a book with Mr. Magaziner in 1988. "He spends 90 percent of his mental energy thinking about policy. He lives to solve policy problems."
Mr. Magaziner's career as a business consultant illuminates his approach to health policy. He has immersed himself in vast quantities of detail and data, just as he did when he worked for clients like Volvo, General Electric, Corning, Wang Laboratories and the Governments of Israel and Sweden.
He has established more than two dozen committees to study aspects of health policy, including cost controls, long-term care and mental health. Each team must meet seven deadlines. Each deadline, in his jargon, is a tollgate. He spends his time talking with these committees, with members of Congress and with lobbyists from groups like the Health Insurance Association of America.
Mr. Magaziner was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University with Bill Clinton, and his intellectual imprint is evident in Mr. Clinton's campaign manifesto, "Putting People First."
In a 1990 study called "America's Choice: High Skills or Low Wages," Mr. Magaziner said the nation must train workers and reorganize the workplace to meet challenges of the 21st century. As candidate and as President, Mr. Clinton has often talked about the need for "an economy of high-wage, high-skill jobs."
 
Consultant and Agitator
 For nearly 20 years, Mr. Magaziner was a consultant to blue-chip companies, which he often charged more than $500 an hour, colleagues say. But he also advised Walter F. Mondale and Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic candidates for President in 1984 and 1988, and he has not abandoned his past as a political agitator.
Roger G. Ackerman, president of Corning, which makes glass and high-tech materials, described Mr. Magaziner as "a tremendous encyclopedia," the best consultant ever retained by the company. He said Mr. Magaziner helped Corning compare itself with foreign competitors.
"Ira constructed a model of what we were up against by visiting foreign countries and collecting huge amounts of information about our competitors' taxes and labor costs," Mr. Ackerman said in an interview. "Based on his advice, we decided to make a big commitment to the liquid-crystal display business in Japan, and it's been a success story for Corning."
On the other hand, in 1989, Mr. Magaziner told a Congressional committee that the Federal Government should invest in research on "cold fusion," lest the United States fall behind Japan and European countries in developing this technology. Congress, he said, must not "dawdle and wait until the science is proven." The science, however, has still not proved commercially valuable.
 
Led Curriculum Reform
 Mr. Magaziner grew up in New York City, the son of an accountant who worked at a tomato-packing company. As valedictorian of the class of 1969 at Brown, he led efforts to liberalize the curriculum. Through noisy rallies and quiet negotiations, he persuaded faculty members to move away from large lecture classes and toward individual instruction and independent study.
"The goal was to eliminate most of the requirements and let students have greater freedom to choose their courses," said Elmer E. Cornwell Jr., a professor of political science at Brown. "Ira and another student drafted a very comprehensive report, and most of their recommendations were adopted by the faculty. A great deal of Brown's popularity flows from the 1969 curriculum reform. We were viewed as an avant-garde kind of place."
After two years at Balliol College, one of the oldest colleges at Oxford University, Mr. Magaziner and several friends went to Brockton, an old shoe-manufacturing center 19 miles south of Boston, for a local experiment in social democracy that sought to reverse the city's economic decline.
In an effort to give more power to the residents of Brockton, Mr. Magaziner and his friends supported liberal candidates for local office and established a food cooperative, a weekly newspaper, a tenants' rights organization and a nonprofit corporation to repair dilapidated housing.
"We were very idealistic, committed and earnest," said Joshua C. Posner, who graduated from Brown in 1971. "After a couple of years, it became clear we were not going to change the world starting with Brockton. Ira realized there was a lot about the real world that he didn't know, and he wanted to learn. That's why he went to the Boston Consulting Group in 1973, to be a business strategy consultant."
 
Moving Toward the Center
 This was a turning point in Mr. Magaziner's career. At this time, his friends say, he moved toward the center of the political spectrum.
"Up till then, Ira had seen big business as an institution to be skeptical about," Mr. Patinkin said. "But a number of Brockton shoe factories shut down because of foreign competition. All his work to help the needy was overwhelmed by the closing of those factories. Ira realized that corporate and economic success was the truest path to save the world, to create prosperity for those who didn't have it."
In 1979 Mr. Magaziner formed his own consulting concern, Telesis, to develop his ideas on industrial policy and to advise corporate clients. In 1986 he sold it to Towers Perrin, a big consulting company, for a sum estimated by Rhode Island businessmen at $6 million. He formed another consulting concern, SJS Inc., in 1990.
Mr. Magaziner put his economic ideas to a test in 1984. He was the chief architect of a $248 million industrial development plan for the State of Rhode Island. The proposal was called the Greenhouse Compact, an allusion to the fact that Mr. Magaziner wanted to establish "greenhouses" to nurture promising industries like robotics. But the plan was overwhelmingly rejected by voters in a state referendum.
 
Economic Ideas Criticized
 Recalling the referendum, Prof. George H. Borts of Brown, who describes himself as a free-market economist, said, "Ira's economic ideas were primitive, just off the wall." He maintained that Mr. Magaziner seemed to assume that Rhode Island, the nation's smallest state, could develop its own economy and thrive on exports. That notion is absurd, Professor Borts said, because Rhode Island is economically dependent on its neighbors, Massachusetts and Connecticut.
In addition, Mr. Borts said: "There was great suspicion that the Greenhouse Compact would favor some firms at the expense of others. Businessmen feared their competitors would be subsidized by the state."
But many ideas from the Greenhouse Compact, like the proposal for government aid to high-tech industries, showed up in Mr. Clinton's economic proposals.
J. Joseph Garrahy, a Democrat who championed the Greenhouse Compact as Governor of Rhode Island in 1984, said, "Leading educators and businessmen saw it as a valid way of trying to help the state out of its economic difficulties."
Representative John F. Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, said: "Ira's predictions about the state's economy have unfortunately been borne out. If we didn't do anything, he warned, the job base and the manufacturing base would decline. He was right."
In the national health-care industry, as in the Rhode Island economy, Mr. Magaziner wants to stimulate free-market competition, but he also welcomes the firm guiding hand of government. Thus, the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform is considering "interim cost controls" like limits on doctors' fees and hospital charges.
Edward J. Caron, a vice president of Providence College, who worked with Mr. Magaziner at Telesis and SJS Inc., said: "Ira thinks in very broad strokes. His health-care reform proposal will be well-supported and well-documented. But he will need nuts-and-bolts people to put his strategy into effect in the real world, at the level of the average person, because he thinks at a more global level."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ira C. Magaziner, President Clinton's senior adviser for policy development, is finding the health-care agenda of Donna E. Shalala, left, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, the head of the President's task force, to be the major focus of his job. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chronology: "Ira C. Magaziner"
 
Born: Nov. 8, 1947, New York City.
 
Hometown: Bristol, R.I.
 
Education: Public schools of Far Rockaway, Queens, and Lawrence, N.Y.; Brown University; Oxford University.
 
Career Highlights: 1971-73, neighborhood organizer, Brockton, Mass.; 1973-1979, Boston Consulting Group; 1979-1989, president of Telesis, a business consulting concern; 1990-92, president of SJS Inc., a consulting concern. 1988-91, chairman, Commission on the Skills of the American Work Force. Also involved in public policy studies like the Greenhouse Compact, for industrial development, and Aging 2000, for health care, in Rhode Island.
 
Family: Married to Suzanne McTigue; two sons and one daughter.
 
Hobbies: New York Giants football fan; New York Yankees baseball fan; travel with his children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (91%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (91%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CURRICULA (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); LOBBYING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); CHRONOLOGIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); SPORTS FANS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); BASEBALL (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (62%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; MAGAZINER, IRA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; MAGAZINER, IRA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



760 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: At the Bar;
A judge's comments to co-workers conjure up memories of a disagreeable past.

BYLINE: By David Margolick

 BODY:
Judge B. Joseph Fitzsimmons Jr. gave plenty of ammunition to his critics, including the Massachusetts Commission on Judicial Conduct. He sloughed off work and abused lawyers and litigants. He arrived in court late and left early, often for a nearby country club. Yet he chastised the unemployed, particularly women, when they came before him.
But Judge Fitzsimmons's real undoing were some wisecracks he made to some courthouse associates that brought down the wrath of Jewish groups, the legal establishment, the press and Gov. William F. Weld, among others. His remarks have left him unemployed, impoverished and under police protection. They have also conjured up memories, dimmed by time and the Second Vatican Council, of the tortured ties between Boston's Irish and Jews. 
 The judicial conduct panel laid out its charges against Judge Fitzsimmons with brutal exactitude a year ago. According to the panel's findings, the judge, in a conversation with a co-worker, referred to a Jewish lawyer as a "kike." Speaking in a kind of code -- so that "they won't know that we are talking about them," he told another associate -- he regularly called Jewish lawyers "Canadians," then took shots at them, again during unguarded moments off the bench. "Typical Canadian," he said of one. "All he thinks about is money."
Sometimes he dispensed with the metaphors. Informed that a Jewish lawyer was waiting to speak with him, the judicial panel noted, the judge responded "by remarking in substance, 'It's time to go warm up the ovens.' "
Anxious to end a three-year investigation, avoid a public hearing and save his job, Judge Fitzsimmons, who sat in the Boston suburb of Dedham, issued a mea culpa. He conceded that he had made certain comments regarding "attorneys of the Jewish faith" that could "reasonably be understood as being anti-Semitic," comments for which he said he was "profoundly sorry." But he insisted that he was not an anti-Semite and that three psychiatrists who had examined him -- all Jewish -- concurred.
He pledged to continue counseling, at his own expense, and sensitivity training. For its part, the judicial conduct panel meted out a six-month suspension without pay plus a $60,000 fine -- its most severe sanction ever, but one that allowed Judge Fitzsimmons to keep his pension and resume his judicial duties.
Everyone agrees that the Boston of years past -- in which, as native Jewish sons like Theodore H. White and Nat Hentoff have written, Irish toughs routinely set upon Jewish boys for deicide and other crimes -- has gone the way of Mayor James Michael Curley. The two groups now celebrate seders together, vote together and litigate together. Mutual affection runs deep. Irish litigants go to Jewish lawyers and Jewish litigants to Irish ones, according to local legal lore, because each thinks the other has a way with juries.
Perhaps because the episode conjures up such unhappy memories, however, the judicial conduct panel's resolution was not the end of the matter. Earlier this month, the normally polite Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly called on Judge Fitzsimmons to resign or be removed from office. So did The Boston Herald and The Jewish Advocate, a local newspaper. And so, too, did Governor Weld, who on Feb. 11 asked the State Legislature to begin impeachment proceedings.
The 51-year-old Judge Fitzsimmons, who lives in Weymouth, is not granting interviews. But his defense counsel, Earle Cooley of Boston, contended that with the Legislature now getting into the act, his client is being made to pay twice for the same offense. And the Governor, he added, is scoring cheap electoral points. "It's politically popular to croak this man while he's down," he said.
And, with breathtaking speed, the Fitzsimmons camp produced several Jewish lawyers who have only praise for the beleaguered judge. In separate interviews, Sumner Gillette of Quincy called him "a nice, decent guy who means well," Coleman Bornstein of Boston called him "extremely fair, pleasant, respectful and judicious," and Mark Hoffman of Walpole called him "a lovable guy, a big puppy dog."
In his admission, Judge Fitzsimmons said he had "never harbored anti-Semitic feelings" nor had even been charged with discriminating against Jews in his courtroom. Privately, Judge Fitzsimmons has denied making any comments about crematoriums or "kikes." As for calling Jews "Canadians," the judge, a passionate hockey fan, has said he really meant "Canadiens," as in the Montreal Canadiens. The suggestion is that by likening Jewish lawyers to such aggressive and highly successful skaters, he actually meant the term to be flattering.
Mr. Cooley said the judge would not resign and was, in fact, keeping up on his work. Come July 1, Mr. Cooley said, Judge Fitzsimmons fully expects to be back on the bench.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS); MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; ETHICS; ANTI-SEMITISM; JEWS; IRISH-AMERICANS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; IMPEACHMENT; JUDGES LEGAL ETHICS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHICS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RELIGION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); 

PERSON: FITZSIMMONS, B JOSEPH JR (JUDGE) ; WELD, WILLIAM F (GOV); MARGOLICK, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



761 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Judge Devises Instructional Penalties

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Feb. 25

 BODY:
A local judge who says jail is no longer a deterrent is trying to teach first-time nonviolent offenders a lesson by, among other things, sentencing them to write book reports and, in one case, to go to the zoo.
"I wanted him to get the idea that that could be him locked up and confined, and see how bad that was," said the judge, Joe B. Brown, referring to a drug offender whom he had ordered to stand in front of a gorilla cage for an hour. "It got to him." 
 Such maverick sentencing has brought much attention to the 45-year-old judge since he was elected to the county criminal court in January 1991. He has been the subject of newspaper articles as far away as Anchorage, was mentioned in Life magazine and appeared on Bill Cosby's "You Bet Your Life" television show in November. Indeed, because of the attention, some legal experts are questioning whether Judge Brown's approach to sentencing is aimed more at generating publicity than at reducing recidivism.
Under Tennessee law, Judge Brown has considerable leeway in sentencing; state law, in fact, tells judges to consider alternatives to jail for first-time nonviolent offenders. But most judges are content with probation and community service.
 
Effectiveness Questioned
 It is too soon to tell if Judge Brown's sentencing practices work, but there are plenty of doubters. "Some of these alternatives feel right and clever, but they really don't hold much promise of reducing crime," said Scott Wallace, a senior fellow with the Criminal Justice Policy Foundation, a Washington organization that evaluates alternative sentencing programs.
Judge Brown has his supporters, however. Having grown up in an inner-city neighborhood, they say, he is unusually street-smart and can empathize with the primarily young black male defendants who face him every day.
"I grew up in South-Central Los Angeles, and I went to a high school where, literally, when I came in there at 13 there was a dead man hanging from the flagpole," the judge said in an interview. "If you saw 'Boyz N the Hood,' that was the way I grew up."
After graduating from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1973, he moved to Nashville, then here to Memphis, where he worked as a defense lawyer and later a city prosecutor, the first black to hold such a position there.
 
'Village Chieftain'
 "I never wanted to be a judge until I found out the judge could be the village chieftain," said Judge Brown, who presides in robes made of African cloth. "The village chieftain protects his village, resolves disputes and problems and gets rid of the problems that cannot be corrected."
His methods of protecting his village are unusual. Paul Levine, director of public affairs with the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said, "At any given time, you'll find judges who toy with creative sentencing, but at the moment I've only heard of one other judge who does it."
Judge Brown argues that locking up someone is not necessarily punishment. "For a lot of them, it is a very viable and good option to get sent to jail," he said. "They have food, shelter, a bed, recreation, a social structure and a concourse of friends."
 
Special Meanings
 The goal of his approach to sentencing, he says, is not to hand out easier punishments but to devise ones that have special meaning to lawbreakers. "You have to make the punishment fit the offender, more so than the offense," he said.
His unusual sentences for first-time nonviolent offenders are accompanied by probation and community work, like washing police cars or clearing weed-filled lots. As a condition of probation, Judge Brown also demands that offenders complete a job training course or return to school and receive a diploma if they do not already have one. He often makes offenders read "The Autobiography of Malcolm X" and turn in a 10-page essay on the book, hoping to build an awareness of their own culture.
Perhaps the most disputed of Judge Brown's sentences has been allowing burglary victims to visit the burglar's home and take something of equal value while the burglar watches. The victims, accompanied by a sheriff's deputy or bailiff, make these visits without warning so that the burglars cannot hide their most valuable possessions. The "raids" can take place any time during a burglar's probation, which normally lasts a year.
 
'Reverse Theft' Idea
 "This reverse theft thing was predicated on the theory that everybody has something of value, and the lower down on the economic scale you are, the more likely it is to be something material, even if small," said Judge Brown, who offered this option to more than 30 burglary victims in two years.
The victims often take back from burglars what was taken from them, like videocassette recorderse.
The sentence troubles Mr. Wallace of the Criminal Justice Policy Foundation. "I don't think it's a good idea to involve the victim in a face-to-face, intimidating confrontation," he said, noting that the burglar would know where the victim lives if he decided he wanted his belongings back. Mr. Levine also questioned the constitutionality of the practice.
Prosecutors and other judges declined to discuss Judge Brown's sentencing practices. But others applauded his approach.
"It's my firm belief that these sentences are not done just for the purpose of being different, but for the purpose of turning individual lives around," said Leslie Ballin, a defense lawyer in Memphis. "I like to see him give kids a chance, and sometimes that's all it takes to turn them around."
And Judge Brown does hand out severe sentences when necessary, Mr. Ballin said. "If someone has been down that same road too many times or has committed a heinous crime, he can be a real toughie, and that's not something that's too widely known," Mr. Ballin said of the judge.
But too often, Judge Brown says, society would rather jail offenders than rehabilitate them, adding that it spends more money on inmates than students. "In Memphis we spend $3,400 a year educating a school child from kindergarten through graduation from high school, yet we are quite willing to spend between $22,000 and $36,000 a year to lock that individual up," he said.
"What we're trying to do here is use the coercive power of the court to do a bit of social engineering. That's really what I'm trying to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Joe B. Brown, whose maverick sentencing has legal experts arguing whether it is aimed at generating publicity or reducing recidivism. (Rollin A. Riggs for the The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEMPHIS (TENN) UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); COURTS; JUDGES; BLACKS (IN US) SENTENCING (93%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RECIDIVISM RATES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); 

PERSON: BROWN, JOE B (JUDGE); FINGER, MICHAEL BILL COSBY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



762 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise Slightly

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing initial claims for jobless benefits rose slightly in mid-February, the first advance in a month, the Government said today.
But the less volatile four-week moving average of new claims fell in the week, to 334,500 from 343,500, the third straight decline and a return to early January levels that were the lowest since the 327,250 average for the period that ended on Sept. 30, 1989. 
 The Labor Department said new applications for unemployment insurance totaled 325,000 during the week that ended on Feb. 13, up from 321,000 a week earlier. It was the first increase since claims rose 1,000, to 361,000, during the week that ended on Jan. 16.
The weekly total did not include first-time applications filed under a Federal emergency program. Those claims totaled 22,405, down from 30,118, during the week that ended on Feb. 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



763 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Cold Weather Brings Surge In Prices of Heating Fuels

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The prices of heating oil and natural gas jumped yesterday as much of the nation reported frigid temperatures.
The weather also influenced the livestock markets, where hog prices rose on reports of heavy snow in the Plains. 
 The cold weather, combined with a drop in domestic inventories of distillate fuels, helped create a rally in heating oil prices. March heating oil gained 1.39 cents, to 58.77 cents a gallon, on the Mercantile Exchange in New York.
"I think it's basically the weather," said Ted Eck, chief economist at the Amoco Corporation in Chicago.
March unleaded gasoline fell 0.54 cent, to 53.11 cents a gallon, as many traders closed their positions before the March contract expires today.
April crude oil rose 8 cents, to $20.61 a barrel, helped by reports that members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would act to curb production on March 1.
"People seem to believe that for the time being OPEC will abide by what they agreed," said Cyrus Tahmassebi, the chief economist at the Ashland Oil Company. "If that is the case, crude prices for the second quarter may be in the range of $20 to $22."
The Arctic cold blanketing much of the nation pushed up the price of natural gas, with the April contract climbing 4.6 cents, to $1.894 per million British thermal units.
In addition, new delays in restarting a Texas nuclear power plant diverted demand to natural gas.
Hog prices rose at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in reaction to the transportation problems posed by the winter storm, which left up to 18 inches of snow at Kansas City, Mo., and 12 inches at St. Louis. April hogs added 0.525 cent, to 45.625 cents a pound.
"I think the storm restricted marketings," said Daryl Dinkla, livestock analyst for Commodity Services Inc.
Cattle prices weakened despite the storm, with April dropping 0.45 cent, to 79.675 cents a pound.
Lumber prices fell sharply as traders took profits from the rally that began nearly three months ago. March lumber fell $8.70, to $436.50 per thousand board feet, and the contracts on the three succeeding months dropped the $10 limit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MISSOURI, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: AMOCO CORP (71%); COMMODITY SERVICES INC (64%); CME GROUP INC (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MISSOURI, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; HEATING FUEL; WEATHER; GAS (FUEL) AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); HEATING OIL PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



764 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A G.M. Jobless Fund Runs Out; the 2d Is Solvent

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 25

 BODY:
A $1.7 billion fund paying benefits to about 14,000 laid-off auto workers at the General Motors Corporation will run out of money on March 1, almost seven months before the automobile union's three-year contract with G.M. expires, the company said today.
But G.M. and the United Automobile Workers union said a second jobless benefits fund would take over payments, so no one would be left without checks. 
 The contract with the union, signed in 1990, agreed to pay up to $3.35 billion in benefits, divided among the two funds. But with slumping demand for their cars, General Motors and other auto makers have announced wide layoffs and plant closings, causing one of the G.M. funds to run out sooner than expected.
When it agreed to the contract in 1990, G.M. did not expect that business would be so bad, and layoffs so large, that $1.7 billion would have run out now. "We thought this money would be more than adequate," said Tom Pyden, a company spokesman.
The second fund, providing supplemental unemployment benefits, has about $725 million left out of $1.65 billion, G.M. said, adding that it should last until the present contract expires on Sept. 14.
The union's preparatory convention for bargaining on the next contract will be held in Detroit in April, and job-security benefits are certain to be one of the key issues in deciding the union's strategy with the Big Three auto makers this summer.
G.M. is expected to argue that given its losses, it cannot afford to maintain a financial safety net under all workers. Investors in G.M. and other automotive stocks had criticized Robert C. Stempel, the company's former chairman, for agreeing to the benefits, which were unprecedented. Under the agreements, those laid off receive about 95 percent of their pay plus health care.
The jobless provisions fell heaviest on G.M. because among the Big Three, it was the company with the greatest excess plant capacity and therefore the greatest risk of layoffs. The Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation have operated leaner, and therefore had fewer layoffs and been forced to pay comparatively little in jobless benefits.
With no money in one of its funds, G.M. is expected to close its jobs banks, which had been intended to train workers who lost their positions because of productivity and technology improvements. In practice, workers assigned to the banks often performed community service or odd jobs for the union.
In the last 30 months, the company has paid $1.7 billion to workers assigned to jobs banks throughout the country. The union, without elaborating, said many members did receive some training. But some labor relations experts say the program provided little more than severance pay.
Harry Katz, a labor relations professor at Cornell, said the jobs banks fulfilled little of their promise because "G.M. didn't really know what to do" with them.
"The idea was to put people into training," he said, "thus giving G.M. the flexibility to bring more work into its plants and put people back on the job. But that has to happen as part of an overall manufacturing strategy. President Clinton talks about spending more on training, but here's a case of endless money being spent and very little happened."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE LAYOFFS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (69%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



765 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Mixed as Traders Await Meeting by Group of 7

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed against major foreign currencies yesterday in advance of a key economic report and the meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations.
Gold prices rose. Gold bullion for current delivery closed at $329.90 an ounce, up 20 cents, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. A late bid from the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold at $329.50 an ounce, up 30 cents. 
 Andrew Busch, a vice president in charge of foreign exchange at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, said the dollar had been fairly range-bound during the day before it moved upward on the German mark at the end of the day.
 
Some Short-Selling
 Traders, betting that the dollar would decline, indulged in some short-selling in anticipation of revised fourth-quarter gross domestic product numbers due today and the outcome of the Group of Seven meeting this weekend, Mr. Busch said.
In short-selling, traders borrow dollars, then sell them immediately, anticipating that the value will decline. If it does, the traders buy dollars at the lower price, then repay the loan and pocket the difference.
The Group of Seven leading industrial nations will discuss monetary policy and foreign exchange rates.
In New York, the dollar was quoted at 117.475 Japanese yen, unchanged from late Wednesday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 117.53 yen, up 0.60 yen from Wednesday's close. Later, in London, it fell to 117.50 yen.
In New York, the British pound was quoted at $1.4315, more expensive than $1.4305 late Wednesday. In London, the British pound fell to $1.4297, from $1.4385 late Wednesday.
 
Other Late Rates
 Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Wednesday's late rates, included: 1.6350 German marks, up from 1.6265; 1.5170 Swiss francs, up from 1.5065; 5.5500 French francs, up from 5.5155; 1,594.00 Italian lire, down from 1,595.375, and 1.25175 Canadian dollars, down from 1.25915.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late rates Wednesday, included: 1.6345 German marks, up from 1.6200; 1.5175 Swiss francs, up from 1.4985; 5.5495 French francs, up from 5.4935; 1.8380 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8230; 1,591.00 Italian lire, down from 1,594.00, and 1.2535 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2617.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



766 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: The Art Market

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

A Deal in Spain
At first, the deal was simply a rental. An option to buy didn't seem to be in the cards. But now it appears the Spanish Government will be able to acquire one of the world's greatest private art collections: more than 800 works belonging to the Swiss billionaire Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza and his family. The collection, whose works date from the 13th to the 20th century, has been valued by Sotheby's at nearly $2 billion. 
 In October, amid much fanfare, the artworks went on view to the public in the Villahermosa, a renovated early-19th-century palace about 100 yards from the Prado in Madrid. The Spanish Government paid about $45 million to renovate the palace specifically for this collection. It also agreed to pay Baron Thyssen and his heirs $5 million a year in rent until 2001.
Now, if everything goes as planned, Spain will pay a reported $500 million to buy the collection.
"I hope the negotiations will be finalized before July," said Rodrigo Uria, a managing partner in the Madrid law firm Uria & Menendez, who was retained by the Spanish Government six and a half years ago to advise it on negotiations with the Thyssens. "Everything has been agreed upon. Now it's up to the lawyers for the Thyssen trust to provide the necessary papers."
 
Official Fears Allayed
 The 71-year-old Baron and his fifth wife, Carmen (Tita) Cervera, have been involved in all aspects of the arrangements, including the negotiations to rent and then to sell the art to Spain. Word in Spanish art circles is that the Baroness persuaded the Baron and his heirs to agree to sell the collection to Spain because it is her native country. Last week, she told a reporter for El Pais, Spain's leading newspaper: "Within 45 days the Thyssen collection will be Spanish. The agreement among us all is about to become a reality. There are only mere bureaucratic procedures."
Tomas Llorens, the chief curator at the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in the Villahermosa, declined to discuss the details of the negotiations but said Spain's fears that the art would eventually leave the country were now over. "The collection is perhaps the best introduction to the history of painting," he said.
The paintings include many types of art poorly represented in Spanish collections, with works by Old Masters, Impressionists, Post-Impressionists and Americans. Among works in the collection are fine examples from artists like van Gogh, Picasso, Gris, Chagall, Goya, Velazquez, Gauguin, Monet, Degas, Toulouse-Lautrec, Rembrandt, Rubens, Bonnard and Cezanne, as well as American artists including Charles Willson Peale, Thomas Cole, Winslow Homer and John Singleton Copley.
"Collections like this one can never stand still," Mr. Llorens said. "But what is sure is that this will no longer be a collection in formation. But that doesn't preclude the possibility of refinements and acquisitions." The collection, he added, will retain an international presence, participating in loan agreements with museums around the world.
 
Art and Taxes
 There is no question that the treatment of charitable gifts under President Clinton's tax proposal would greatly benefit museums, but how would the economic plan affect auction houses and galleries? And what about the President's plan to raise the taxes of those in high-income brackets, the prime art-buying public?
It all depends on whom you ask.
Part of the problem is that there are so many variables. The treatment of gifts of art to museums is one issue, but the potential of higher taxes is quite another. And a provision that affects auction houses one way may have quite a different effect on art galleries.
Referring to a measure in the 1986 Tax Reform Act that effectively made major gifts to nonprofit organizations deductible at the purchase price rather than at market value, Patricia G. Hambrecht, general counsel at Christie's, said: "We have long been advocates of a repeal of the provision. Three years ago, we went to Washington to lobby on Capitol Hill, even though we realize this may not have a favorable impact on our business." (The more artworks are donated to museums, the fewer the auction houses have to sell.)
President Clinton's proposal would allow the donor of a major gift to a nonprofit organization to deduct the property's current market value, rather than its original purchase price, as a charitable contribution. In most cases, the current market value is higher.
Donors were able to deduct the current market value for 18 months -- from Jan. 1, 1991, to June 30, 1992 -- when Congress suspended that provision of the 1986 tax law and allowed contributors to deduct the full fair market value of their gifts. Mrs. Hambrecht said Christie's appraisal business for donation purposes rose significantly in that period. "Any decline in the auction business during that period was unrelated to the tax window," she said.
Another aspect of Mr. Clinton's proposal would raise the tax rate on high incomes.
Diana D. Brooks, the president of Sotheby's in America, said she believed a tax increase could weaken the auction market's middle tier by leaving less discretionary income for acquiring art. "But it's hard to know," she said. "My guess is that the $130,000-to-$500,000 income range will be affected."
But Mrs. Hambrecht said, "At the very top level, people will always have money, so the increase probably won't have any effect on business at all."
Dealers see the President's tax plan differently. "If the economy will be pushed into the doldrums by Clinton's tax plan, we will be in deep trouble," said Andre Emmerich, the Manhattan gallery owner. "The bottom line is the creation of new wealth. If there's a sense of buoyancy, people will feel like spending money."
Mr. Emmerich added that if it became advantageous once again to donate artworks to museums, a scarcity of museum-quality works on the market could raise prices.
Richard Feigen, another Manhattan dealer, said he didn't believe prices would rise. "At least not right away," he said. "In most areas, from classic 20th-century to Old Masters and antiquities, people aren't affected by the vagaries of the economy, except psychologically."
Mr. Feigen added that he believed the market for contemporary art, which has always been subject to speculative buyers, would be the hardest hit. Looking to the future, he predicted, "The market will continue to rise because people will continue to think of art as a financial asset."
"I'm not pleased by this," he concluded, saying art should be bought for art's sake and not for investment purposes. "But it's a condition with which we seem to have to live."
 
A College's Loss
 The J. Paul Getty Museum's gain is an English college's loss, and the British are, understandably, sore losers.
Grave disapproval has been art experts' reaction to the news that Holloway College, a branch of London University in Egham, was forced to sell an important seascape by J. M. W. Turner, "Van Tromp Going About to Please His Masters," from 1844. The college said it planned to use the $16 million it received from the Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., to finance the upkeep of its magnificent Gothic building.
But museum curators in London say this precedent may deter potential benefactors from making collections available to academic institutions in the future. The painting is part of a private collection of 76 artworks bequeathed by Thomas Holloway, the Victorian industrialist who founded the college in the 1880's.
In September, the college obtained permission from the Charities Commission, a Government body, to sell the painting after British museums were offered the work but failed to raise the money. Prof. Norman Gowar, the principal of the college, said his institution had no other options because the British Government was also unable to help. "We are losing a painting to save a building," he said. "As a college, we are deeply sad to see the Turner go, but we are pleased it will be on public view at the Getty."
Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate Gallery in London, whose Clore Gallery is devoted to Turners, issued a statement expressing his disappointment. "We are naturally sorry that the council of Royal Holloway College has broken the Founder's trust in deciding to sell works from the collection," he said. "The Turner is a magnificent painting and strong interest in acquiring it was expressed by one of the British national collections, though in the circumstances of a privately negotiated sale it was unable to match the sum being offered by the Getty Museum."
The Tate has a budget of about $2.4 million a year to buy artworks, less than one-sixth of the painting's price. It is a record for a Turner, but one that the Getty was happy to pay. "We don't have a Turner in our collection," said George Goldner, the Getty's curator of paintings and drawings. "It is a beautiful work in fine condition." He declined to comment on the uproar the painting's sale has caused in Britain, but said he believed the price was fair. Now the Getty must wait for an export license to be granted. "It will take several months," Mr. Goldner said. "But we're optimistic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of Ghirlandaio's "Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni," in Thyssen-Bornemisza collection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

COMPANY: GETTY, J PAUL, MUSEUM; HOLLOWAY COLLEGE URIA & MENENDEZ (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GETTY, J PAUL, MUSEUM; HOLLOWAY COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TAXATION; GIFTS PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART COLLECTING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ART DEALERS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ART HISTORY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; THYSSEN-BORNEMISZA, HANS HENNRICH (BARON); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TURNER, J M W TOM COLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



767 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: The Spoken Word

 BODY:

BLACK HISTORY CELEBRATION, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street. "African-American Folk Music: A Legacy Deferred," a presentation with poetry, dance, slides and video, featuring C. Scoby Stroman, a dancer; Sunday at 2 and 4 P.M. Also, "African Influence in Jamaican Religions," a lecture by Everton St. Patrick McPherson; and "Maroon Societies," a lecture about the formation of runaway-slave societies, by Nashornea Lindo, an artist and manager of educational programs at the New York Public Library's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. Tomorrow and Sunday, 1 to 4:30 P.M. Admission by contribution: $5; $2.50 for children. Information: (212) 769-5315.
BRAZILIAN MUSIC SERIES, the Ballroom, 253 West 28th Street, Chelsea. "The Babiau Beat: From Candomble to Caetano," a lecture with music and slides that explores the music of Brazil, including works by Gilberto Gil and Caetano Veloso. Presented by Pamela Bloom, a travel writer and music critic, with an appearance by the Brazilian singer Marina. Tomorrow at 4 P.M. Admission: $15; $7.50 for students. Information: (212) 244-3005.
FILM AND LECTURE, Karen Horney Clinic, 329 East 62d Street, Manhattan. A screening of Josef von Sternberg's 1935 film "Crime and Punishment," and a discussion led by Eugene B. Papowitz, a professor of psychoanalysis. Sponsored by the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis. Today at 7:30 P.M. Admission by contribution: $7; $4, students and the elderly. Information (212) 838-8044.
ORGANIZED CRIME IN ITALY: PREVENTION AND REPRESSSION, New York University, Casa Italiana, 24 West 12th Street, Greenwich Village. A panel discussion, in English and Italian with simultaneous translation, with Giuseppe Ayala, magistrate and member of the Italian Parliament; Luigi Rossi of the Italian Ministry of the Interior and head of Criminalpol, an Italian police organization; Gen. Mario Nunzella of the carabinieri, the Italian national police force; Gian Maria Fara, a sociologist and president of the Instituto Studi Poltici Economici e Sociali who studies organized crime in Italy, and Ronald Goldstock, director of the New York State Anti-Organized Crime Task Force. Today at 6 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 998-8730.
FICTION READING, Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, 116th Street and Broadway, Morningside Heights. Readings by A. M. Holmes, author of "The Safety of Objects"; Randall Kenan, author of "Let the Dead Bury Their Dead," and Dani Shapiro, author of "Fugitive Blue." Today at 7:30. Free. Information (212) 854-3774.
POETRY ON CORNELIA STREET, Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village. Readings by Frazier and Stephanie Russell. Sunday at 7 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 989-9319.
"HARLEM KIDS SYMPHONY," Davis Hall, City College of New York, West 135th Street and Convent Avenue, Hamilton Heights. A reading of scenes in progress from "Harlem Kids Symphony," a musical based on the Harlem School of the Arts and its founder, Dorothy Maynor; it was developed by Hiromi Sakamoto, a Japanese film maker. Members of the Harlem School of the Arts will appear, and Joyce Dinkins is the host. Free. Today at 7:30 P.M. Information: (212) 650-7100 or (212) 926-4100.
TV REMINISCENCES, 92d Street Y, at Lexington Avenue. Robert Krulwich, an economics correspondent for WCBS-TV, will speak about "Misadventures in Television." Sunday at 7:30 P.M. Admission: $15. Reservations: (212) 996-1100.
SLIDE SHOW AND WALKING TOURS, Lower East Side Tenement Museum, 97 Orchard Street. Sunday: "How We Lived: Life in a New York City Tenement," a discussion and tour of an exhibit at the museum, at 11 A.M.; "Peddler's Pack: A Jewish Heritage Tour," a tour of turn-of-the-century Lower East Side, led by a costumed actor, at noon; "La Dolce Via: An Italian Heritage Tour," exploring the influence of Italian culture in New York City, at 1 P.M.; "Streets Where We Lived: A Multi-Ethnic Tour," a walk through Chinatown and Little Italy, at 2 P.M., and "House of Heritage," a slide show and lecture about the history of the Tenement Museum, at 3 P.M. Lectures: $3. Walking tours: $12 ($10 for students and the elderly). Discussion: $5. Information: (212) 431-0233.
ART AT THE MET, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street. Today: "Northern Renaissance Painters and Their Techniques," by Yvette Bruijnen, 11 A.M.; " 'The Last Moments of John Brown' by Thomas Hovenden," by Hazel Rodriguez, at 3 P.M.; "Painting in Delft: Vermeer and His Contemporaries," by Walter Liedtke, at 6 P.M.; "Themes and Context in Japanese Screens," by Hannah Sigur, at 6 P.M.; "The Artist at Work: Decoration Techniques of 18th-Century German Furniture," by Mech thild Baumeister, at 7 P.M.; "Kings, Queens and Courtesans -- Great Art Inspired by Great Passion: William K. Vanderbilt and Alva Sith; William Randolph Hearst and Marion Davies; Edward VII and Wallis Simpson, and Peggy Guggenheim and Max Ernst," by Marlene Barasch Strauss, also at 7 P.M. (tickets: $15); Tomorrow: "Japonisme and American Design," by Deborah Goldberg, at 11 A.M.; "Recent Acquisitions in Musical Instruments," by Joseph Peknik, at 7 P.M. Sunday: "Thomas Eakins," by Diana Linden, at 11 A.M. "Manet and Historical Execution," by Hubert Von Sonnenburg, at 3 P.M. Unless otherwise noted, lectures are free with museum admission: $6; $3 for children and the elderly. Information: (212) 535-7710.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); KAREN HORNEY CLINIC (55%); KAREN HORNEY CLINIC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); KAREN HORNEY CLINIC (55%); KAREN HORNEY CLINIC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE HISTORY (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (89%); POETRY (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCERS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); CHILDREN (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LIBRARIES (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (70%); POLICE FORCES (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); RELIGION (57%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



768 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
A Softer Side To a Knight Of Wicked Wit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
IF you think you know Honore Daumier because you know the famous and beloved lithographic illustrations he did for the Paris journal Le Charivari in the mid-19th century, think again. A wonderful exhibition of Daumier's drawings, along with some related paintings and sculptures, which opens today at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, will be a revelation.
For all the fluency and wicked humor of so many of his lithographs, Daumier reveals himself in these mostly private works to be an artist of wider technical range and vastly subtler emotions. Some of the drawings are heartbreaking in a quiet, almost surreptitious way that has nothing to do with the theatrics that Daumier was obliged to perform in his caricatures and that at one point landed him in jail. 
 Posterity has recorded little he said, but the show leaves no doubt about his ambition and the breadth of vision that allowed him to absorb with equal perspicacity Old Master paintings in the Louvre and impoverished itinerant musicians on the working-class streets of the Ile St.-Louis, where he lived for many years. Without taking too big a psychological leap, you can also feel, in the recurrent images of fugitives and displaced citizens, something of Daumier's attitude toward his own ambivalent status in Paris's artistic constellation, praised as he was by the likes of Baudelaire and Champfleury, but still regarded widely as a mere caricaturist.
When he depicts with evident affection a pair of connoisseurs in a painter's studio lovingly attending to a sheaf of works on paper, you can sense Daumier conjuring up ideal patrons. And when he depicts an aging pair of melancholic clowns lost in thought, you can see a reflection of Daumier himself, the comic artist. No wonder he also devoted a series of poignant and atmospheric drawings and paintings -- but not prints -- to the popular subject of Don Quixote, whose quest he might well have considered a metaphor for his own effort to establish himself as a serious artist.
It was left to succeeding generations to guarantee for Daumier, through their emulation of his work, the exalted status he deserved. A long and diverse list of artists built on his achievement: Cezanne, Degas, van Gogh, Toulouse-Lautrec, Picasso, Beckmann, perhaps Ensor, and Giacometti. Giacometti's characteristically obsessive style of drawing, in particular, recalls the way Daumier makes some of his most extraordinary images through swirls of angel's-hair lines, none of which on its own describes a form but all of which are together somehow precise. This is a long way from the "thick, strong, manly touch" that Henry James once noted about Daumier's prints.
Daumier was essentially self-taught, his remarkable gifts as a draftsman clearly innate. He was born in 1808 in Marseille, the son of a glazier, picture-framer and frustrated poet who moved his family to Paris in 1816, hoping to establish himself as a writer. It would be largely left to Daumier to support the family; his father died in 1851 in the Charenton insane asylum.
He studied briefly as a teen-ager with the artist Alexandre Lenoir and took drawing and painting classes at the Academie Suisse in Paris, where students worked without formal instruction. But by the late 1820's, he was already on his own, creating illustrations for the weekly La Silhouette. When, during the early 1830's, he produced a series of caricatures of King Louis-Philippe and his deputies, Daumier earned for himself a modest spell in Ste.-Pelagie prison. After 1835 and the Government's prohibition on political caricatures, he turned to the safer ground of illustrating everyday life.
His drawings, which are virtually all undated, seem to come principally from two periods: around the 1848 Revolution, which interrupted his press assignments and allowed him more time to devote to paintings, for which the drawings are often preparatory; and the 1860's, when Le Charivari temporarily laid him off, having incorrectly calculated that after three decades he had overstayed his welcome with the public.
The drawings are focused on a handful of eclectic subjects, including not only Don Quixote and carnival performers and connoisseurs and refugees, but also people on trains and in railway stations (displaced people of a sort), women and children (but, interestingly, rarely men and women), and lawyers. For Daumier, lawyers were as much performers in their dubious way as saltimbanques, and in a few cases, like "The Speech for the Defense" and "The Sideshow," he recycled the same basic composition to describe both groups.
Still, it is striking that so many of the works here depict people simply thinking, looking, sitting alone in silence or engaged in intimate conversation. It seems to have been mostly during the 1860's, when the unemployed Daumier was producing elaborate drawings and watercolors to satisfy collectors, who expected from him a certain brand of caricature, that he relied on the broader humor of his prints.
The Metropolitan's show is arranged more or less according to subject, with the addition of an early academic portrait, several gorgeous landscapes in watercolor and pen and ink, and a group of studies based on classical and religious themes, which make clear Daumier's debt to Old Masters like Rubens. There is, for example, the great "Drunkenness of Silenus," whose robust physicality he would also put to use in his sly depiction of a lawyer in "Grand Staircase." There is "The Kiss," whose emotional high pitch brings to mind Gericault, and "The Riot," whose tumult of figures pays homage to the Baroque. And there is "Five Studies for the Prodigal Son," a deeply moving group of sketches in which the tremulous lines with which Daumier describes the hunched figure of the son held by his father add immeasurably to the pathos.
Those same lines could also suggest movement, a tangle of them simulating the waving arms of a barker at a sideshow or the arc of a drumstick. Daumier was a master at this, as one after another drawing demonstrates. And it is the absence of this energetic, looser style in the works he did for collectors that can make them seem fussy and static by comparison.
He was also a master, as the exhibition makes clear, at the dramatic use of light and shadow, sometimes seeming to mimic Caravaggio and his followers, as when he silhouettes figures against a fire in "Hunters by the Fire," or when he gathers several men around a candlelit table in "A Good Vintage." His well-known watercolors of passengers in first-, second- and third-class railway carriages are as much studies in light as they are studies in character, and in fact it is the conspicuous softness of the light in the first-class carriage and the cavelike dimness in those of the other classes that most immediately put the message across.
Something of the same mastery of light and shadow applies to his sculptures, several of which are on view, including the bronze relief of "The Emigrants," a Michelangelesque procession of figures that is one of Daumier's finest achievements. As he does with drawings in which form is described by a jumble of lines that turn the whole page into a roiling plane, in sculptures like "The Emigrants" the undulated surface is a mass of scars, folds, wrinkles and facets that catch the light and give the sense of tremendous activity. Daumier's style of drawing varied, but it can often be most accurately described as sculptural.
Daumier never became a great painter, as he wished to be, and several of the projects commissioned by the state, with which he hoped to stake his claim as a serious artist, didn't pan out. But he produced some remarkable paintings nonetheless, and one of them is the oil sketch of Don Quixote on a white horse, which, fittingly, is the last work in the show. It is, unlike many of the other paintings, a loose swirl of strokes, reminiscent of Fragonard in its freewheeling virtuosity. It is also suggestive, in its strong color contrasts, of the encroaching blindness that left Daumier by his death in 1879 able to distinguish only lights and darks.
The show has been organized by Colta Ives of the Metropolitan and Margret Stuffmann of the Stadel in Frankfurt, where it was first seen. It includes about 125 of the roughly 800 drawings Daumier is known to have done (he produced thousands of lithographs). There are a few questionable selections; a study related to "The Emigrants" relief hardly seems, in its woodenness, to be by Daumier. But the exhibition is mostly full of terrific things, handsomely presented. At the entrance are a group of his best-known lithographs, which can make a very different impression after you have seen the show. You shouldn't miss it.
The exhibition of Daumier drawings remains at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, through May 2. It is sponsored by J. P. Morgan & Company, and will not travel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail of "The Artist in His Studio," from a show of Honore Daumier's drawings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); DRAFTING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (51%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL; DAUMIER, HONORE (1808-79)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



769 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3559 words

HEADLINE: Hotel Dining Regains Glow Of Long Ago

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER

 BODY:
OVER the last decade, hotel restaurants have been the most fickle of suitors. Usually attractive, elegant and inviting, they can deliver a sublime experience one day and six months later turn out humdrum food that puts lobby coffee shops in a favorable light. The reasons for such instability vary: peripatetic chefs, the strain of running round-the-clock kitchens and cost-cutting dictated by far-off corporate headquarters.
Now the good news: hotel restaurants are on a roll, both around the nation and in New York City. Moreover, prices are more reasonable than they were in the high-rolling 1980's. 
 Many hotels that lost their quality restaurants to recessionary cutbacks in the late 80's are making a comeback, and noteworthy new restaurants have appeared. In Manhattan, they include those in the Essex House, the Mark, the Royalton, the Paramount, the Waldorf-Astoria and others. Around the country, to name just a few, there are the Mansion on Turtle Creek and Adolphus Hotel in Dallas; the Windsor Court in New Orleans; the Four Seasons hotels in Philadelphia, Chicago, Seattle and Boston, and the Ritz-Carltons in San Francisco, Chicago and Atlanta.
Hotel general managers say few hotel restaurants make a profit, largely because of higher labor costs and the lack of flexibility on hours because hotels are always open, but they say that a fine dining room can be effective public relations. Specifically, it brings in lucrative banquet business and lends a hotel the prestige that can attract hotel guests.
"Our restaurant is not profitable on its own," said Wolf Walther, general manager of the Essex House, whose year-old French restaurant, Les Celebrites, is booked weeks in advance.
He added that both the hotel's restaurants (the other is the more casual Cafe Botanica) were part of a financial strategy to generate banquet business. At the same time, Les Celebrites, while technically a hotel restaurant, has wide outside appeal: only 6 percent of its patrons are hotel guests, Mr. Walther said. The Essex House, which is owned by Nikko Hotels International, plans to open a Japanese restaurant later this year.
As good as hotel food might be, the industry is fighting a negative image created by the decades of stodgy hotel cooking that began after World War II. Before the war, travelers commonly checked into hotels for up to a week or more, and most ate in the hotel's dining room at least three or four times during their stay. Hotels took great competitive pride in their food. Some of the better hotel dining rooms at the time in Manhattan were in the Waldorf-Astoria, the Ritz-Carlton, the Pierre and the Astor.
But after the war, hotels became overnight lodging for many business travelers. Simultaneously, independent restaurants proliferated and improved, luring diners out of their hotels. The new chain hotels, bland but efficient, did not help the reputation of hotel food.
Several Manhattan hoteliers mentioned the stigma attached to hotel dining as a result of this long period of mediocrity. In fact, many hotel restaurants, including Les Celebrites, Lafayette in the Drake Swissotel and Le Regence in the Hotel Plaza-Athenee, have created separate entrances to minimize their connection with the hotel.
But others, like Mark's in the Mark, can be reached only by walking through the hotel lobby.
"There is definitely a stigma with this," Raymond Bickson, general manager of the five-year-old Mark, said of the situation at his hotel. "We just have to work harder to get around it."
Entrance aside, the Mark's luxury French restaurant characterizes the recent resurgence in hotel dining. "We see a good hotel dining room as a calling card to bring in people who live in the neighborhood," Mr. Bickson said. "You need the local residents; you can't survive on guests alone, especially when times are bad during a recession."
Here is a selective roundup of Manhattan's most ambitious hotel dining rooms. Several noteworthy restaurants that are in hotels but have no obvious connection to those establishments have been omitted, including Le Cirque, Bellini by Cipriani and Harry Cipriani.
 
Essex House
 160 Central Park South, (212) 247-0300.
In November 1991, after a two-year renovation, the Essex House unveiled LES CELEBRITES, its showcase dining room. The decorative motif and the name derive from several dozen paintings by celebrities of stage and screen: Gene Hackman, Phyllis Diller, Van Johnson, James Dean and others. Fortunately this amateur-hour conceit does not extend to the kitchen, where a seasoned professional, Christian Delouvrier, is in charge.
No expense was spared on the setting, which has only 14 tables. Gilded columns and ornate molding, thick rugs and crescent-shaped banquettes, dark mahogany walls, Limoges plates, Christofle silver and glittering crystal all contribute to the sumptuous tone.
In the mid-1980's Mr. Delouvrier was chef at the highly regarded restaurant Maurice in the Hotel Parker Meridien in Manhattan. In those heady days, the hotel flew in a consulting three-star French chef, Alain Senderens, to oversee the kitchen. Before opening Les Celebrites, Mr. Delouvrier traveled extensively in Asia, and his menus show it.
On the current menu are cross-cultural dishes like crab salad with lemongrass and olive oil, curried sea scallops in pastry with spinach, and salmon steak with crisped skin, Oriental spices and a leek compote. At the same time, there are earthy French winter specialties like roasted squab with cabbage, mashed potatoes and white truffle oil, and beef stew with a carrot tart and roasted cepes.
Desserts are appropriately lavish and delightful, including a cleansing tart of candied orange peel with bitter chocolate sorbet, chocolate souffle with praline ice cream, and charlotte of pears with raspberry puree.
The six-course tasting menu at Les Celebrites is $85, the a la carte menu is about $65 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip.
A less formal cousin of Les Celebrites, CAFE BOTANICA, offers a light, colorful and herbaceous menu at lunch and dinner. The dining room, in the front of the hotel facing Central Park South, is bright and cheerful (featuring more celebrity art). The $19.93 lunch Mondays through Saturdays is a particular bargain.
In my experience, Cafe Botanica does not have as high a batting average as its more expensive counterpart down the hall. For example, a fish soup at lunch recently had a potent shellfish stock base but was underseasoned, and grilled swordfish nicoise style offered more flair than flavor. Yet many dishes are on target, including the grilled shrimp salad with red onions and endive at lunch, and the grilled salmon with a bright sorrel sauce and green lentils at dinner. The $29 three-course tasting menu available daily for dinner can be one of the best buys around.
 
Peninsula
 700 Fifth Avenue, at 55th Street, (212) 903-3918.
Like so many restaurants of its type, the stately ADRIENNE, the Peninsula's showcase dining room, has seen more changes than a hotel bed in recent years. New ownership, different management, revolving chefs: all have led to instability and confusion among diners. Now part of a prestigious international hotel chain, Adrienne may be finding its ballast.
The restaurant's comfortable and roomy Art Nouveau dining room offers deep armchairs and rose-tinted banquettes, floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking Fifth Avenue and an energetic, hospitable staff.
The chef, Adam Odegard, is anything but timid in his approach to cooking, and occasionally his enthusiasm results in clashing flavors. More often than not, though, his creations harmonize. Winners on the current menu include seared venison with truffle oil and a parsnip-almond tartlet, and steamed halibut with a ripe preserved tomato, grilled squash, couscous and a fennel emulsion.
Soups are a good way to start, especially the cinnamon-scented pumpkin puree, as are the little goat-cheese-filled won tons with salad, and marinated shrimp with horseradish-chili oil and mixed greens. Count on about $50 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip. Adrienne offers a $32 pre-theater dinner Tuesdays through Saturdays and a $28 prix fixe lunch Mondays through Fridays.
 
Royalton
 44 West 44th Street, (212) 944-8844.
Renovated in 1988 with the help of the architect Philippe Starck, the Royalton may look like a tiresomely hip lair for people who wear all black and clomp around in orthopedic-looking shoes. But if you can ignore the eerie-blue lobby, carrot-shaped sconces and the funhouse-minus-the-fun restrooms, some of the most satisfying food in the theater district can be found.
The hotel's restaurant, called 44, is run by Brian McNally, who has been around the track more than a few times in Manhattan (Indochine, Canal Bar, 150 Wooster), and his chef, Geoffrey Zakarian. In the last year, this lobby restaurant has become a favorite lunch perch for publishing executives and the high-fashion crowd. Aside from gossip and intrigue, the 44 menu offers bright and appealing American fare with international accents. At a recent lunch, crispy fried calamari was clean and tasty, as was a dish called souffle of cod (sort of a brandade de morue on helium), with a Parmesan crust. Among main courses there is a nicely browned skate with sweet turnip puree, a three-story grilled tuna nicoise with mixed-green-and-olive puree, and a muddled, flat-tasting penne with chicken, tomato and parsley.
Some of the more appealing items at dinner are lamb stew with quince and homemade pasta, grilled Muscovy duck breast with spicy tempura of shallots and roasted pear, and spit-roasted squab with potatoes, apples and roasted squash. Waiters are knowledgeable and enthusiastic but sometimes lacking in the basic skills of getting dishes to the right customer and refilling wine.
Dinner runs about $45 with a glass of wine before tax and tip; lunch about $30. Pre-theater dinner, daily except Sundays, is $32.50.
 
The Mark
 25 East 77th Street, (212) 744-4300.
This dignified, intimate hotel on the Upper East Side has stressed quality food since it opened in 1988. MARK'S, the sumptuous dining room with faux skylights and dark walls adorned with classical prints and gold-framed mirrors, is as soothing as a favorite old sweater.
The chef, Philippe Boulot, has an eclectic style, borrowing ingredients from around the world to enliven his essentially French-based cuisine. When this works, the results can be splendid. A recent dinner began with a scintillating lobster roll made with Chinese rice paper and seasoned with tarragon, along with a carrot vinaigrette sharpened with a parsley essence. Also invigorating is the faintly peppery roast quail with a mache salad.
Among main courses, the crisp, air-dried duck is appealing with its minimally sweet plum wine sauce and sauteed bok choy. Braised sea bass is excellent over herbed mashed potatoes. One of the earthier items on the current menu is braised cheeks of beef, tender and gelatinous, in a rich beef-stock sauce with confit of carrots.
Desserts are excellent: banana tart with pineapple-coconut ice cream; a buttery, thin-crusted apple tart, and a rich, custardy bread pudding.
You will not find any bargain's on Mark's well-selected international wine list, but the sommelier is helpful in steering you toward wines that best complement various dishes. Dinner runs about $55 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip. A prix fixe three-course dinner, available daily, is $45; the vintner's version, also daily, is $65. A $19.93 prix fixe lunch is offered Mondays through Saturdays.
 
Waldorf-Astoria
 301 Park Avenue, at 50th Street, (212) 355-3000.
This sprawling hotel on Park Avenue has a grand food tradition going back to the early 1930's, when the legendary Oscar Tschisky oversaw more than a half-dozen restaurants, including the musical Empire Room, the Sert Room (named for the Spanish artist who painted the murals there), the Starlight Roof, Peacock Alley, Cafe Lounge, Cafe Savarin and the Norse Grill.
In the 1970's and 80's, the Waldorf's dining rooms fell behind the pace of up-and-coming private restaurants. Last year, an ambitious young French chef, Laurent Manrique, took over PEACOCK ALLEY, and for the first time in many years, diners are talking about the Waldorf-Astoria.
After entering the front door, one has to wander around in the cavernous lobby of the hotel before finding Peacock Alley, a palatial Old World spot with burnished wood walls, large murals of peacocks and an army of tuxedoed waiters. There seems to be a tendency among young hotel chefs these days to gild the lily. Mr. Manrique is no exception. An example is his rabbit tartelette, which is moist, garlicky and fragrant with fresh thyme. It could easily do without a garnish of fresh figs. A rough-textured terrine of foie gras, leeks, duck confit and potatoes is delicious, though. So is a cassolette of artichoke hearts, snails and winter vegetables in a garlic-infused broth.
A gutsy winter dish is the wild boar stew. The caramelized meat is sinewy and mild in a thick reduced red wine sauce sweetened with dried prunes and pearl onions. A turgid lobster and shellfish stew lacks focus, but roasted salmon with savoy cabbage and brandade de morue (a garlicky puree of cod and potatoes) should not be missed.
Hotels can usually be counted on for an awesome array of desserts. Peacock Alley offers just that. Among the best sampled are a brittle prune and apple turnover with prune ice cream and Armagnac sauce, warm Valrhona chocolate cake with mocha cream, and a Grand Marnier napoleon with a semisweet tangerine sauce. Dinner runs about $50 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip; lunch about $30. Three prix fixe dinners are offered daily: $45 (without wine), $60 (with wine) and $70 for six courses. A $22.50 prix fixe lunch is also offered daily.
 
Westbury
 840 Madison Avenue, at 69th Street, (212) 535-2000.
THE POLO, the patrician-looking restaurant with an equestrian decor, reached a gastronomic peak in the mid-1980's when Patrice Bouely, a native of Provence, was the chef. When the economy tumbled, so did the restaurant's ambitions. Mr. Bouely was dismissed and the Polo began a gradual downhill slide, broken briefly by the hiring of Terrance Brennan, who now is a partner in Prix Fixe and Steak Frites, both in Manhattan.
The current American chef, Neil Murphy, a student of Charles Palmer at Aureole in Manhattan, is trying to turn things around. Mr. Murphy has assembled a large contemporary American menu, perhaps too large. His strudel-wrapped shrimp with shaved fennel and a tomato compote is a lovely match of textures and flavors. Also good are little pan-braised dumplings in a Parmesan-laced broth. With successes like these, it is surprising that a simple field salad with pommes Maxime is oily and bland.
The chef has a deft touch with game, particularly a recent special of venison over sauteed potatoes with sweet carrots and turnips. Swordfish is inviting, too, served with asparagus, artichoke chips and a soothing vegetable broth. The best-sounding dish on the menu did not disappoint either: wood-grilled chicken breast with stuffed chicken leg, potato and onion cake, and a roasted garlic sauce.
Desserts are highly refined and visually arresting across the board, including the lemon parfait, a crisped banana fritter with hazelnut ice cream, and a whimsical chocolate ice cream sandwich. Dinner is about $50 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip; lunch about $30.
 
Hotel Plaza Athenee
 37 East 64th Street, (212) 734-9100.
LE REGENCE, the sumptuous French restaurant, has been in the front ranks of fine dining in New York City since 1987, when the hotel hired the Rostang family in France (father and two sons) as consultants. That association ended last year, and Le Regence is in the process of redefining itself.
The ornate dining room is a sea of turquoise and white, with deep leather armchairs, benevolent lighting and comfortable banquettes. Service is highly professional. Based on two recent visits, the food ranges from adequate to very good. The kitchen seems to do best with a la minute preparation than with more elaborate fare. A good starter at lunch is fettuccine tossed with chunks of fresh lobster, basil and good olive oil. A goat cheese terrine was unexpectedly rich, even cloying, but house-smoked salmon with a warm potato pancake, creme fraiche and onions was well balanced.
Grilled red snapper with soybean butter under a stack of deep-fried scallions is hard to resist as a main course, as is medallion of venison in a pepper-spiked sauce with red cabbage, chestnuts and apples. Le Regence is more expensive than most hotel dining rooms, about $55 a person for dinner with a glass of wine before tax and tip, about $35 at lunch. There is a $33.50 prix fixe Sunday brunch; a prix fixe dinner served daily at $49, and a prix fixe lunch at $25.50.
 
Drake Swissotel
 65 East 56th Street, (212) 832-1565.
LAFAYETTE, the French restaurant in this most European of hotels, had the dubious distinction of being one of the most talked about restaurants in the country several years ago. The chef was Jean-Georges Vongerichten, whose distinctive cooking elevated Lafayette to a four-star rating. Then in 1991, Mr. Vongerichten left to open his own Manhattan establishment, Jo Jo. Thus began a long slide for Lafayette as a series of chefs tried to fill Mr. Vongerichten's oversized shoes.
The restaurant closed in July 1992, perhaps in an effort to exorcise the four-star ghost, and reopened in November with a bright young chef, John DiLeo, who made his mark at the breezy American grill in SoHo called Zoe.
Except for some colorful murals of the Hudson River Valley, Lafayette looks the same. It still has a sparkling kitchen behind glass, well-separated tables, soft beige-and-cream tones and a low noise level. Mr. DiLeo has a wide-reaching, somewhat sassy style, as evidenced by an excellent appetizer featuring seared tenderloins of lamb encrusted with fennel seeds and mustard seeds along with a cooling fennel salad: a nice one-two punch. Also well conceived is his seared smoked salmon set over rice cake flecked with truffles. Only a tomato and lemongrass broth with assorted shellfish was oddly flat tasting.
Duck is one of the best main courses, crisp skinned, juicy and paired with a well-seasoned potato pancake and pear chutney. Spit-roasted cod is savory over a puree of potatoes and olives. For dessert, there is a picture-perfect creme brulee and superb fruit sorbets.
Dinner is about $50 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip; lunch is about $35. A pre-theater dinner, from 6 to 7 P.M. Mondays through Saturdays, is $38; lunch prix fixe at $28 is served Mondays through Saturdays.
 
St. Regis
 2 East 55th Street, (212) 339-6719.
Since 1991, with the arrival of Gray Kunz, the enterprising chef who artfully fuses the cuisines of East and West, LESPINASSE has been a ground-breaking New York City restaurant, in or out of hotels.
The grand Old World setting may seem incongruous with Mr. Kunz's cutting-edge cooking, but it is certainly comfortable. Giant murals, a gilded ceiling, thick rugs, oversize chairs, widely spaced tables; such comforts are rare outside a hotel dining room.
Typical of Mr. Kunz's style is his restorative bouillon of capon with winter savory and lotus seeds, sort of chicken soup with a cosmopolitan education. Also on the winter menu is an earthy fricasee of mushrooms with risotto flavored with rosemary and shallots.
Main courses to watch for are the roast duck seasoned with an exotic orange-based spice blend, all over a bed of endive, and the gutsy marinated beef short ribs and a potato mousseline with a peppy horseradish-mustard sauce.
The superb desserts range from the exotic (sauteed bananas with a star anise parfait) to the soothing (honey-apple strudel with vanilla creme fraiche). Dinner averages $60 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip. A tasting menu is prix fixe at $64; the vegetarian version is $48. The prix fixe lunch is $38.
 
Paramount
 243 West 46th Street, (212) 719-5588.
This sleek, stylish hotel in the theater district opted for something different when it opened its main restaurant last year. Rather than go with a formal, cozy institutional approach, it flung the door open and created a snappy French brasserie called BRASSERIE DES THEATRES, which caters to the theater crowd at all hours.
The job was turned over to masters of the genre, Max Bernard, Jean-Michel Diot and Philippe Lajaunie, the owners of Park Bistro and Les Halles on Park Avenue. Not only is Brasserie des Theatres the most authentic-looking brasserie in New York City, it also serves some of the most authentic food: sturdy fish soup with aioli, rabbit terrine, boeuf en gelee, saucisson en brioche, pistou, brandade de morue, choucroute garnie, cassoulet. Within two months it became one of the most popular dining spots in midtown.
Brasserie des Theatres serves until 1 A.M. daily for the late-night crowd. Dinner runs about $40 a person with a glass of wine before tax and tip; lunch about $25.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Part of a resurgence: Adrienne, above, the Art Nouveau-style dining room in the Peninsula Hotel, and Mark's, right, for sumptuous dining at the Mark. (Photographs by Greg Miller for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Les Celebrites, the showcase French restaurant in the Essex House. (Waring Abbott for The New York Times); Murals in an Old World setting: Peacock Alley at the Waldorf-Astoria. (Greg Miller for The New York Times) (pg. C28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FSH (TSX) (55%); FS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (90%); MANSION ON TURTLE CREEK (58%); ADOLPHUS HOTEL (55%); NIKKO HOTELS INTERNATIONAL-USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; ESSEX HOUSE HOTEL (NYC); MARK HOTEL (NYC); NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



770 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
An Emergency That Need Not Be

BYLINE: By RICHARD E. MOONEY

 BODY:
Congress thought it had solved the problem of expiring unemployment benefits when it passed an "emergency" law last July. The law was designed to prevent future emergencies by giving states the power to enact extra benefits when they were needed. But the states did nothing and now Congress finds itself forced to do it all over again. It's an example of how Washington politicians can get caught up in problem-solving that solves nothing.
The new bill is clearly needed. It provides up to 26 extra weeks of support for jobless workers who exhaust their current benefits and still can't find work. It is first on President Clinton's action list for boosting the economy, and not a moment too soon. 
 The current program of extra benefits expires in two weeks and the rate of unemployment remains distressingly high. At 7.1 percent, it is higher than it was at the official trough of the recession almost two years ago. Close to 1.8 million of the long-term unemployed will see their benefits cut off in early March if the emergency program isn't extended, and it's estimated that a similar number will exhaust their benefits within the next six months.
But wait. Didn't Congress fix the jobless insurance system just last summer, so that emergency legislation wouldn't be needed again? Yes, and for a change, President Bush didn't veto it. Yet barely seven months later that "permanent" solution stands exposed as an inside-the-Beltway fix that didn't fly.
Probably in all sincerity, the Democrats who designed last summer's repair thought it was forever. From then on, under the new law, states with high unemployment could extend benefits for their long-term jobless without waiting for Washington to pass another special law.
As of now, it appears that more than 20 states would qualify for an extension when current benefits run out next month, if their governors and legislatures had done as the new law assumed they would. But none did. Not even one. Because the Congressional engineers of the new option misread one consideration that should have been obvious: Who pays?
If a state triggers extra benefits, it bears half the cost -- and all the onus among businesses that will eventually have to cover that cost. But smart governors and state legislators know that if they just wait long enough, Washington will ride to the rescue, and maybe with full Federal funding. Congress paid the last round of added benefits out of the Government's general revenues, breaking the once-firm rule that the unemployment insurance system is financed by the unemployment insurance tax. And the same is about to happen again.
Granted, no one foresaw last summer that unemployment would continue so high for so long, and that still another extension of benefits would be needed in the current recession cycle. But the new Federal law was enacted in early July. There has been plenty of time for states to act. There's also been time for Washington to prod them, but there's no sign anyone did.
The pending bill, already approved by the House, has one worthwhile new feature. Patterned on an experiment in New Jersey, it's a $23 million program to identify and help workers whose jobs are gone forever, distinct from those who are temporarily laid off. The rest of the bill -- all $5.7 billion of it -- is obviously necessary, because current emergency benefits are about to cease. But let it also be a reminder that when Congress fixes a problem, it isn't necessarily fixed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); 

PERSON: MOONEY, RICHARD E BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



771 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Maiden Voyage, Smooth Sailing

 BODY:
Warren Christopher isn't known for dramatic gestures, but he does have a reputation for competently managing complex and dangerous crises. He used his first overseas voyage as Secretary of State to tackle two big challenges on the foreign policy agenda -- reviving the stalled Middle East peace talks and reaching out to Russia and its embattled President, Boris Yeltsin.
The results, jointly announced yesterday in Geneva by Mr. Christopher and his Russian counterpart, Andrei Kozyrev, were encouraging, not least because they indicate that President Clinton has decided not to stiff-arm foreign policy. On April 4, Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin will meet at a site not yet disclosed. Delegates to the Mideast peace talks have been invited to reconvene in Washington the same month. 
 The Secretary was warmly received at each stop, but he rightly warned his entourage against "travel euphoria." Careful preparation will be required for both meetings. It's not even certain that all the invited Middle East parties will show up.
Nevertheless, Mr. Christopher's initial foray has helped swing the Administration's focus to the two foreign policy issues that most urgently require Presidential attention: rejuvenating the Middle East peace process and solidifying America's most important strategic relationship.
Mr. Christopher appears to have found face-saving common ground between Israelis and Palestinians on the angry dispute over the mass deportation of 400 alleged terrorists from the Israeli-ruled Gaza Strip and West Bank. Palestinians have called for the repatriation of the 400, and as a precondition for rejoining peace talks have sought a pledge that it won't happen again.
The deportations aided fundamentalists bent on wrecking the talks. Israel now says it will speed the return of the deportees, still languishing in southern Lebanon, and that it is not Israeli policy to engage in future deportations. What would help is for Israelis to spell out to Palestinians more forthcoming proposals on self-rule for the West Bank and Gaza, the main agenda item.
In short, Palestinians who seek peace and American good will can reasonably declare victory and resume negotiations. As Mr. Christopher learned, many hope they will -- not only Arab moderates in Egypt and Saudi Arabia but also Syria, for decades Israel's most rejectionist neighbor. What has turned Damascus around is the collapse of Soviet power and Israel's willingness to discuss swapping land for peace on the Golan Heights.
Thus the process nurtured by President Bush has a good chance of surviving in a new Administration. If this is to happen, however, Mr. Christopher will need timely backing from Mr. Clinton, whose ear and favor all governments in the Mideast covet.
The Government in Moscow also wants Mr. Clinton's ear. The April summit meeting will come not a moment too soon for Mr. Yeltsin, who is in the midst of a tough fight at home with conservative leaders of the Russian congress over his presidential powers and constitutional reform. If the conservatives get their way, cooperation between Washington and Moscow in the Middle East, the Balkans and Iraq could become next to impossible.
It's not Washington's place to become the arbiter of Russian domestic politics, particularly at a time when Russia is trying, really for the first time in its history, to develop a democratic political culture. But the U.S. has a strong interest in the survival of democracy, reform and foreign policy cooperation. Protecting that interest requires a credible package of economic support.
The responsibility for selling that package to the American public will fall to Mr. Clinton. Many Americans resist the idea of spending money abroad when they are being asked to sacrifice; Mr. Clinton's task is to persuade them that they are getting a bargain compared with the likely costs of a larger military establishment should reform and democratization fail.
Mr. Christopher has proved himself a good listener and a careful interlocutor. His boss is still mainly occupied with matters domestic. With the April meetings now on the agenda, the Secretary must soon claim a larger share of Mr. Clinton's attention.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; RUSSIA MIDDLE EAST (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); TERRORISM (64%); CONSERVATISM (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



772 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Lessons of Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
President Clinton's planned airdrops of food and medicine to besieged villages in eastern Bosnia have been called little more than symbolic. That is true. Planes flying at 10,000 feet to avoid ground fire will not be able to get many relief packages near their intended recipients.
But symbols matter, and this one may matter a good deal. For the airdrops send a message to the Serbian forces besieging those villages that the United States cares -- that it does not like the idea of aggressors trying to starve and shell people out of their homes. 
 The Serbian gangsters who have been waging war on the other peoples of Bosnia for the last year have not had to worry about the disapproval of any outside power. The leaders of Western Europe have clucked -- and made clear they would do nothing. Britain and France have been true to the tradition of Munich. President Bush hemmed and hawed.
The leaders who did nothing to stop the slaughter told us that the situation in the former Yugoslavia was very complicated. Yes it was, and is. But the basic facts of the horror are really quite simple.
First, the Serbs are the aggressors. None of the ethnic groups in the conflict is above reproach. But it is the Serbs who have grabbed pieces of territory in Croatia and Bosnia. It is the Serbs who are shelling Sarajevo and Gorazde and other small towns in eastern Bosnia -- and throttling relief supplies to them.
There was a typical scene this week when U.N. relief trucks headed for Gorazde were stopped at a Serbian checkpoint. Serbian soldiers insisted on checking the contents of each truck carton by carton. The result was a two-day delay in getting food to the 70,000 desperate residents of Gorazde, mostly Muslims.
The purpose of such Serbian tactics is to make the civilians in Gorazde and other towns so hungry, or so frightened by shelling and sniper fire, that they will leave. Then more territory will have been ethnically cleansed, and Serbs can move in.
Second, the Serbian aggression poses dangers far wider than the human disaster in Yugoslavia. The reason is well stated in the current Foreign Affairs in an article by Stephen John Stedman entitled "The New Interventionists." Mr. Stedman is critical of too-easy calls for U.S. intervention abroad on moral grounds. But he puts the Yugoslav situation in a different category, warning of the burden of refugees on Europe and of widening instability.
"Left unchecked," he writes, "Serbian aggression could advance to Kosovo and Macedonia, raising the specter of broader interstate conflagration. The war in the Balkans is a greater danger to international security than civil wars in Somalia, Liberia or Sudan because it may overwhelm Europe's political stability and economic productivity."
Third, the only thing likely to turn the Serbian leaders from their murderous course is outside force or a realistic fear of it. Empty moral disapproval -- the clucking of Prime Minister John Major, President Francois Mitterrand and the rest -- does not impress Slobodan Milosevic.
It would have been easy to stop the Serbs, by a meaningful threat of force, at the beginning of their aggression. When they began shelling the ancient Croatian city of Dubrovnik 16 months ago, the leaders of Western Europe could so easily have said: Stop or we shall intervene. But they lack the courage, and the Serbs got the message. They went on to destroy Vukovar on the other side of Croatia, and then to savage Bosnia.
Now it is much harder. The Serbs indicate that if any outside power tries to keep them from killing and starving Muslim civilians in Bosnia, they will attack the U.N. forces protecting relief efforts.
Even the modest Clinton plan to drop food to the besieged was denounced by the Serbs. A Yugoslav Army statement said: "American interference is becoming increasingly drastic and unbearable."
That is the brute fact of where we are. While Serbian leaders talk of negotiating peace, they wage undiminished war on civilians. And I see no reason to believe they will stop short of their territorial goals unless they think they will be hurt.
President Clinton may well have adopted the airdrop plan as a minimal gesture, hoping to avoid any more serious responsibility. But he will have to be serious, sooner or later, if he hopes to stop Serbian aggression -- and the widening danger to European security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA) SERBIA (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (56%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLIFTS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STARVATION (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (74%); REFUGEES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



773 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Struggle For India

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

 BODY:
The struggle for India goes on as it has almost without pause for 4,000 years.
Time and again the struggle has changed the history of the world, causing great empires to rise and fall in Asia and Europe. 
 And over the millennia it has touched the lives of billions of people everywhere -- particularly their minds and most deep beliefs.
India is where Hinduism and Buddhism were born and the Sikh religion came to be, where Islam flourished, where Christianity established an Eastern outpost that became part of the growth of the West.
Muslim emperors, and then British generals, came to seize the real crown jewels of India -- trade, labor, markets, control of the passages between East and West. Without India neither Islam nor the British Empire might have grown to great wealth and command.
Then came a new kind of struggle for India. Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru and the Indian freedom movement won independence almost without a shot -- armed with idealism and a talent for hard bargaining.
That began the great adventure. In 1947 India became the only large newly freed nation to reach for economic decency by building a democratic, secular, pluralistic state.
Now that part of the struggle for India is rising in intensity. Its outcome will be felt in the world as surely as were other great events in the struggle for India.
Hindu nationalists are growing in strength. They want to establish Hinduism as the only heritage and destiny of India and bring under a Hindu nationalist umbrella the 110 million Muslims who live among India's 730 million Hindus.
The Hindus' destruction of a Muslim mosque touched off riots around the country and a month later the anti-Muslim pogrom in Bombay.
Yesterday Prime Minister Rao stuffed New Delhi with troops to block a monster rally by a collection of nationalist parties and street gangs.
India knows that although Muslims are victims, this is a struggle between nationalist Hindus and those Hindus who believe that religious nationalism is the opposite of the vision of the 1947 independence movement -- a democratic society in which all religions would flourish but none would dominate.
Mr. Rao's wise decision to enforce a ban on the rally showed Muslims at last that the Government would protect them. But he seems totally unable to arouse the passionate idealism of the independence movement, and does not much try.
In some important part the great adventure endures -- a democracy, flawed but real, is fighting the religious fundamentalism that other nations have embraced.
But the ruling Congress Party, once India's independence movement, is now a back room where politicians haggle for jobs and candidacies.
People also blame corruption for loss of faith -- bribery to get a seat on the train or a seat in Parliament. A good American district attorney would probably arrest the whole Government.
Violence is an everyday political weapon. No self-respecting politician travels without backup cars filled with bodyguards. Often it is hard to find the moral difference between political and police terrorism.
But no, this is not the end of India, as proclaimed by foreigners and bewept by Indian intellectuals every few years. Democracy's strength here is that it is the only practical way for Hindus and Muslims to live together instead of killing each other off.
But the future will be decided by what the Hindu and Muslim democrats in India do to save the democracy they inherited.
In this capital, my home and journalistic post for four years in the Nehru era, the friends of religious and political liberty have not pulled themselves out of the shock of nationalism's rise.
Mostly, they clutch their heads. That is not known to have stopped bigoted nationalism ever. I am told that in other cities, particularly Bombay, the enemies of fanaticism are out working in the streets and I will go see.
The other day, at the home of the Sikh writer Kushwant Singh, I saw something nailed to the door -- a mezuza. And in an Indian Muslim diplomat's home I saw a statue of the Hindu elephant-headed god Ganesh, and a large painting of the Last Supper.
For a country like that, the great adventure can't be all over, it can't be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIA INDIA (96%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; HINDUISM; ISLAM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); POLITICS (87%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RIOTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); CORRUPTION (62%); BRIBERY (62%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



774 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Albany Hurts Health Insurance Consumers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report that health insurers, despite dire predictions, have adjusted to New York State's new rate plan (news article, Feb. 6). However, you soft-pedal the detrimental economic effects of increased regulation. 
 During last year's State Legislature session, elected officials again threw a monkey wrench into the workings of the marketplace by imposing "community rates" on commercial health insurers. Community rate rules essentially require insurers to charge the same for all customers carrying a particular policy -- no matter the risk levels -- adjusting for cost differentials around the state.
Community rate regulation forces lower-risk customers to pay higher premiums to subsidize high-risk customers. Naturally, this distorts the price system and creates the potential for additional losses as more high-risk customers seek to purchase insurance and some low-risk customers can no longer afford to do so.
Increased losses, or their potential, will ultimately hurt all insurance consumers. As many warned last year, various insurers will drop individual and smaller group coverage as the law goes into effect.
Although you note that this development has begun -- with at least nine major insurers eliminating traditional coverage for small-group customers -- you play down the effect. The competitive forces that exert downward pressure on prices and foster incentives to improve services will be curtailed as companies drop out of particular markets.
Under this community rates scenario, higher rates could be a reality for everyone in the long run, but most assuredly for those in low-risk categories. State legislators should undo this competition-limiting initiative before it actually goes into effect on April 1.
 
RAYMOND J. KEATING
Director, New York Citizens
for a Sound Economy
Manorville, L.I., Feb. 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



775 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-6
 
MORE IS URGED FOR EX-SOVIETS
President Clinton declared that the U.S. must be willing to spend much more than planned to support democracy in the former Soviet republics. Documents indicate that he will ask for $700 million in aid next year for the republics, nearly doubling the $417 million allotted for this year. 1
 
NO LOGISTICAL AID ON AIRDROPS
Secretary of State Christopher met with NATO foreign ministers to win support for the U.S. military operation to parachute food and medicine into remote areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but he failed to get new commitments of logistical help in carrying out the operation. 5
Bosnians are hoping that the airdrops will be turning point. 5
A new round of talks on Bosnia is to begin at the U.N. on Monday. 5
 
AN ANXIOUS CALM IN MOGADISHU
Nigerian troops and U.S. marines in Somalia's capital occupied buildings from which sniper attacks had been launched, arrested suspected gunmen and seized weapons from buildings as an anxious calm returned to southern Mogadishu after two days of intense gunfire. 4
 
PANEL SUGGESTS REMEDIES FOR U.N.
With new crises looming in many parts of the world, the U.N. must prepare for a substantial expansion of peacekeeping operations and put its financing on a sounder footing, an international panel of financial experts has recommended. 4
 
A DEPARTURE FOR KOREA'S CABINET
The new President of South Korea, Kim Young Sam, surprised Koreans by announcing the appointment of relatively young Cabinet members who were drawn largely from universities, business and politics rather than from the military. 2
 
INDIA: WEAKNESSES ARE EXPOSED
News analysis: By thwarting plans for an anti-Government rally by Hindu nationalists, the Prime Minister survived an important challenge. But he was also seen as having exposed weaknesses in his party and in his vision for a divided country. 3
 
IRAQIS BEAR WEIGHT OF SANCTIONS
Two years after Iraqi forces were crushed by the U.S. and its allies, Iraqis are trying to overcome the effects of economic sanctions, which have created widespread shortages and sharp increase in prices. 4
 
National 7-9
 
CLINTON PLANS FOR LOANS
Administration officials said President Clinton had decided to restructure the Federal student loan program in a way that offers people a chance to repay their debts through national service. 8
 
LIBRARY VISION DRAWS FIRE
A plan by the Library of Congress to charge fees for computerized access to its 100-million-item collection has drawn protests from people concerned about restrictions on information, copyright infringement and unfair competition. 8
 
G.O.P. LAWMAKERS MEET
Conservative themes were dominant as Republican members of Congress met for an annual meeting that seems to mix tent revival and chalkboard lectures. 8
 
HEAD OF HEALTH AGENCY QUITS
Bernadine Healy announced her resignation after two stormy years as director of the National Institutes of Health. 8
 
RACE BARRIER FALLS IN TEXAS
A 58-year-old man who is moving into a housing project in Vidor, Tex., is the first black resident since the 1920's in the town, which has a reputation of being a hotbed of Ku Klux Klan activity. 7
 
TRASH LED TO INQUIRY OF DOCTOR
The new investigation of Dr. Jack Kevorkian got its start with a search of the garbage of one of his assistants by the leader of a militant anti-abortion group. 9
 
Testimony began in the Rodney King beating case. 7
A Navy gay-bashing case took a new twist. 9
Los Angeles teachers agreed to a pay cut, averting a strike. 7
The Navy began a series of "Star Wars" missile tests. 7
Religion Notes: the 10,000th circumcision. 9
 
Metro Digest 21
 
WORLD TRADE CENTER EXPLOSION
An explosion apparently caused by a car bomb in an underground garage shook the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan with the force of a small earthquake, collapsing walls and floors, igniting fires and plunging the city's largest building complex into a maelstrom of smoke, darkness and fearful chaos. The police said the blast killed at least five people and injured more than 650 others. 1
 
TRAPPED INSIDE THE TOWER
Minutes after the explosion, thousands of people in the World Trade Center knew they were in the grip of one of the most dreaded urban nightmares: they were in the city's tallest building and something was very wrong. 1
 
TRAFFIC SNARLS AND SMOKE
The anxiety that began in lower Manhattan with the explosion grew infectious as the day grew long, generating a restless buzz throughout New York City. Traffic snarled to a standstill in lower Manhattan. Major arteries downtown closed and a half-dozen subway lines were rerouted. Nervous relatives jammed the 911 emergency lines. 1
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-15, 47
Art retaliates against Nazis. 11
An heir eyes Soviet Matisses. 11
NBC admits an inaccuracy. 47
Dance: Bavarian National Ballet. 11
Extended Dance Company. 15
 
Sports 28-32
Baseball: Schott visits Reds. 29
Hundley looks for better 1993. 31
Perez gets Yankees' opening-day assignment. 31
Basketball: Pistons defeat the Knicks. 29
Nets lose again, this time to Trail Blazers. 30
Column: Rhoden on track. 29
Football: Wilber Marshall feels like a free-agency victim. 32
Hockey: Islanders regret passing up their chances. 32
 
Obituaries 27
Robert Triffin, an economist in the debate on the monetary system.
Beaumont Newhall, a historian of photography.
Eren Ozker, an actress.
George N. Marshall, a leading minister in the Unitarian Church.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
Editorials
Mr. Wilder's bulletproof vest.
A boost for RU486.
Iran's Nuremberg laws.
The Court slows property seizures.
Letters
Vibhuti Patel: India's days of rage.
Walter Reich: Shame on the Dutch.
Richard Blow: The trouble with tankers.
Julian Bond: Putting the spin on the N.A.A.C.P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); LIBRARIES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



776 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Economy Ended 1992 With Robust Growth
The gross domestic product grew at the robust rate of 4.8 percent in the final three months of 1992, the best quarterly performance in five years and a full percentage point higher than initial estimates. Page 35.
 
Judge Rebuffs Gay Group On St. Patrick's Parade
 A Federal judge ruled that New York City cannot order the Ancient Order of Hibernians to include a gay contingent in the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade up Fifth Avenue. The city will not appeal. Page 21.
 
Bosnia Sees a Turning Point
 After hearing of American plans to airdrop relief supplies, many Bosnians said they sensed a major change in their plight. Page 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); JUDGES (87%); GAYS & LESBIANS (84%); PARADES & MARCHES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



777 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT URGES MORE RUSSIAN AID

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton declared today that having spent trillions of dollars to win the cold war, the United States must summon the will to spend much more than planned in Russia and the other former Soviet republics "to support democracy's success where Communism failed."
Documents sent to Capitol Hill with the President's economic message last week, but little noticed at the time, indicated the President will ask for $700 million in aid next year for the former Soviet republics, nearly doubling the $417 million allotted for this year. Mr. Clinton, who plans to meet with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia on April 4, said "the world will suffer" if Russia's tottering economic reforms collapse. [Excerpts, page 6.]
 
Wants America to Compete
 In a speech at American University consciously evocative of one delivered there 30 years ago by John F. Kennedy, the President endorsed the broad thrust of former President George Bush's trade policies. But at the same time, he sent two signals of change with his call for greater support for Russia and a suggestion that he would demand progress on human rights as the price for continued growth in trade with China. 
 The speech was devoted to international economics and trade and was not a comprehensive presentation of President Clinton's foreign policy views.
He warned that the United States "must compete, not retreat" if its economy is to flourish in an era of burgeoning international trade, but he demanded that American trading partners eliminate barriers to the sale of American products abroad.
Mr. Clinton identified himself neither as a protectionist who "wants to build walls to protect firms from competition," nor as a pure free trader who thinks "government should do nothing in the face of foreign competition, no matter what the dimension and shape of that competition is, no matter what the consequences are in terms of job losses, trade dislocations or crushed incomes." Neither view, he said, "takes on the hard work of creating a trading system that enables us and our trading partners to prosper."
 
'Devilishly Difficult'
 For the industrialized world, Mr. Clinton said, the central, devilishly difficult economic problem is how "to maintain a high-wage, high-growth economy" when "production is mobile and can quickly fly to a place with low wages.""
Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the United States has been slow to reform its own economy, describing his new economic stimulus and deficit-reduction plan as only a first step toward maintaining world economic leadership. A healthier domestic economy "must be the steel of our competitive edge," he said.
"Too many of the chains that have hobbled us in world trade have been made in America," the President told 4,200 students and others in the basketball arena of the 100-year-old university in northwest Washington. His first speech on international economics came on the eve of a meeting in London this weekend of the finance ministers and central bankers of the world's seven largest industrial democracies.
 
July Meeting is a Target
 By the annual Group of Seven summit meeting in Tokyo in July, Mr. Clinton said, he hopes to have his economic program well on the way to Congressional approval. If so, he said, he would be in a much better position to press European and Japanese leaders hard to lower their trade barriers.
Only a few months before his death, President Kennedy went to American University on June 10, 1963, to deliver what became his second-best-known speech, after his Inaugural Address. In the university speech, he appealed for reconciliation with the Soviet Union, or at least its people, arguing that "no government or social system is so evil that its people must be considered as lacking in virtue."
"While defending our own vital interests," he said, in a sentence that became a doctrine, "nuclear powers must avert those confrontations which bring an adversary to a choice of either a humiliating retreat or a nuclear war."
Mr. Clinton was in boyish form at the university today, halting the formal academic procession to shake students' hands and concluding a tribute to the United States with these comments: "We were all born for the information age. This is a jazzy nation -- thank goodness, for my sake -- that created bebop and hip-hop and all those other things."
His visit prompted him to reflect on his own salad days. As a law student at Yale University, Mr. Clinton volunteered as an aide in the unsuccessful 1970 Senatorial campaign of Joseph D. Duffey, who is now American University's president."
Wearing a blue academic gown and the hood of a doctor of laws, bestowed upon him just before he spoke, Mr. Clinton said the world stood now at the third great turning point of the century. After World War I, he said, the wrong path was taken, with the democracies turning inward, but after World War II, that mistake was avoided with the creation of international institutions.
"Overarching everything else" in the post-cold-war world, the President argued, is trade: an "amorphous but profound challenge in the way humankind conducts its commerce."
On China, the President made no direct mention of that country's most- favored-nation status, which many critics of the Beijing Government consider unjustified in light of China's human rights record. But he issued an only slightly veiled warning.
"We are now making a major contribution to the astonishing revitalization of the Chinese economy, now growing at 10 percent a year, with the United States buying a huge percentage of those imports," he said. "And I say that I want to continue that partnership, but I also think we have a right to expect progress in human rights and democracy as we support that progress."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION); CHINA UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR ; BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



778 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Robert Triffin, 81, an Economist Who Backed Monetary Stability

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Robert Triffin, the Belgian-born Yale economist who championed European unity for much of his life and correctly foresaw the demise of the Bretton Woods international monetary system, died on Tuesday in Ostend, Belgium. He was 81.
He suffered from emphysema, his son Nicholas said. 
 For several decades, Professor Triffin was at the center of the debate over the international monetary system.
An ardent internationalist, he stepped into the limelight when he warned in the late 1950's that the Bretton Woods system was inherently unstable and would eventually unravel. Under the system, any country could present the United States Treasury with dollars and receive gold at $35 an ounce. When the United States ran balance-of-payments deficits, other countries would pile up more and more dollars, United States gold reserves would dwindle and a liquidity crisis would ensue.
 
Professor Proved Right
 History proved Professor Triffin right, but he mourned the demise of the system of fixed exchange rates of which he was a lifelong champion.
"He was unhappy with the way the international monetary system evolved when he saw instability of floating exchange rates and the rise of inflation," said Michael Mussa, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
Professor Triffin wrote a large number of books and articles. His dissertation, Monopolistic Competition and General Equilibrium Theory, proved to be a surprisingly modern approach to international trade that has recently generated interest among the current generation of international economists.
"He was also an activist," said James Tobin, his colleague at Yale and a Nobel laureate.
Professor Triffin was, for example, the architect of European currency convertibility after World War II and helped end the wartime system of bilateral trade and exchange controls, paving the way for expanded trade. He was also assisted in the formation of the Common Market. More recently, he was a strong supporter of a European central bank.
"He believed that movements of goods, money and capital were the road to peace and prosperity," Professor Tobin said.
When the King of Belgium made him a baron in 1989, Professor Triffin chose as his motto a paraphrase of Belgium's national motto, transposing "Unity makes strength" into "Unity makes peace."
 
Retired From Yale in 1977
 Professor Triffin won several high honors in economics including the San Paolo Prize for Economics in 1987 and the Frank E. Seidman Distinguished Award in Political Economy in 1989.
Professor Triffin, who was born in Flobecq, Belgium, in 1911, studied economics at the Catholic University at Louvain, where he had been a guest lecturer since his retirement from Yale in 1977, and at Harvard University. He decided to stay in the United States after he completed his graduate studies and became an American citizen in 1942.
A memorial service is scheduled for March 23 in Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium. In addition to his son Nicholas, he is survived by his wife, Lois, and two other sons, Kerry and Eric.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Triffin (NYT, 1968)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (57%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: TRIFFIN, ROBERT; NASAR, SYLVIA JAMES R TOBIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



779 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: President's Speech: Prosperity Aids Freedom

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's speech today at American University:
When I was growing up, business was mostly a local affair. Most farms and firms were owned locally, they borrowed locally, they hired locally, they shipped most of their products to neighboring communities or states within the United States. It was the same for the country as a whole. By and large, we had a domestic economy. 
 But now we are woven inextricably into the fabric of a global economy.

 	 	 		. . .	 	What all this means is that the best investment we can make today is in the one resource firmly rooted in our own borders, that is in the education, the skills, the reasoning capacity and the creativity of our own people.
For all the adventure and opportunity in this global economy, an American cannot approach it without mixed feelings. We still sometimes wish wistfully that everything we really want, particularly those things that produce good wages, could be made in America.
We recall simpler times when one product line would be made to endure and last for years. We're angry when we see jobs and factories moving overseas or across the borders or depressing wages here at home when we think there is nothing we can do about it. We worry about our own prosperity being so dependent on events and forces beyond our shores.
Could it be that the world's most powerful nation has also given up a significant measure of its sovereignty in the quest to lift the fortunes of people throughout the world? It is ironic and even painful that the global village we have worked so hard to create has done so much to be the source of higher unemployment and lower wages for some of our people.
 
A Failure to Act
 But that is no wonder. For years our leaders have failed to take the steps that would harness the global economy to the benefit of all of our people: steps such as investing in our people and their skills, enforcing our trade laws, helping communities hurt by change. In short, putting the American people first, without withdrawing from the world and people beyond our borders.
The truth of our age is this, and must be this: Open and competitive commerce will enrich us as a nation. It spurs us to innovate. It forces us to compete. It connects us with new customers. It promotes global growth without which no rich country can hope to grow wealthier.
It enables our producers, who are themselves consumers of services and raw materials, to prosper. And so, I say to you, in the face of all the pressures to do the reverse, we must compete, not retreat.
Our exports are especially important to us. As bad as the recent recession was, it would have gone on for twice as long had it not been for what we were able to sell to other nations.
Every billion dollars of our exports creates nearly 20,000 jobs here, and we now have over 7 million export-related jobs in America. They tend to involve better work and better pay. Most are in manufacturing. And, on average, they pay almost $3,500 more per year than the average American job. They are exactly the kind of jobs we need for a new generation of Americans.
American jobs and prosperity are reason enough for us to be working at mastering the essentials of the global economy, but far more is at stake. For this new fabric of commerce will also shape global prosperity or the lack of it, and with it, the prospects of people around the world for democracy, freedom, and peace.
We must remember that even with all our problems today, the United States is still the world's strongest engine of growth and progress. We remain the world's largest producer and its largest and most open market.
Other nations such as Germany and Japan are moving rapidly. They have done better than we have in certain areas. We should respect them for it and, where appropriate, we should learn from that. But we must also say to them you too must act as engines of global prosperity.
 
Five Steps
 I believe there are five steps we can and must take to set a new direction at home and to help create a new direction for the world.
First, we simply have to get our own economic house in order. I have outlined a new national economic strategy that will give America the new direction we require to meet our challenges. It seeks to do what no generation of Americans has ever been called upon to do before: to increase investment in our productive future and to reduce our deficit at the same time.
We must do both. A plan that only plays down the deficit without investing in those things that make us more productive will not make us stronger. A plan that only invests more money without bringing down the deficit will weaken the fabric of our overall economy, such that even educated and productive people cannot succeed in it.
Second, it is time for us to make trade a priority element of American security. . . . We will continue to welcome foreign products and services into our markets, but insist that our products and services be able to enter theirs on equal terms.
We will welcome foreign investment in our businesses knowing that with it come new ideas as well as capital, new technologies, new management techniques, and new opportunities for us to learn from one another and grow. But as we welcome that investment, we insist that our investors should be equally welcome in other countries.
We welcome the subsidiaries of foreign companies on our soil. We appreciate the jobs they create and the products and services they bring, but we do insist simply that they pay the same taxes on the same income that our companies do for doing the same business.
 
A Leadership Mandate
 Third, it is time for us to do our best to exercise leadership among the major financial powers to improve our coordination on behalf of global economic growth.
At a time when capital is mobile and highly fungible, we simply cannot afford to work at cross purposes with the other major industrial democracies. Our major partners must work harder and more closely with us to reduce interest rates, stimulate investment, reduce structural barriers to trade, and to restore robust global growth.
And we must look anew at institutions we use to chart our way in the global economy and ask whether they are serving our interests in this new world or whether we need to modify them or create others.
 
Growing Market
 Fourthly, we need to promote the steady expansion of growth in the developing world, not only because it's in our interests, but because it will help them as well.
These nations are a rapidly expanding market for our products. Some 3 million American jobs flow from exports to the developing world.
Indeed, because of unilateral actions taken by Mexico over the last few years, the volume of our trade has increased dramatically and our trade deficit has disappeared.
Our ability to protect the global environment and our ability to combat the flow of illegal narcotics also rests in large measure on the relationships we develop commercially with the developing world.
There is a great deal that we can do to open the flow of goods and services. Our aid policies must do more to address population pressures, to support environmentally responsible sustainable development, to promote more accountable governance, and to foster a fair distribution of the fruits of growth among an increasingly restive world population, where over 1 billion people still exist on barely a dollar a day. These efforts will reap us dividends of trade, of friendship and peace.
 
Acute Perils
 The final step we must take, my fellow Americans, is toward the success of democracy in Russia and in the world's other new democracies. The perils facing Russia and other former Soviet republics are especially acute, and especially important to our future, for the reductions in our defense spending that are an important part of our economic program over the long run here at home are only tenable as long as Russia and the other nuclear republics pose a diminishing threat to our security and to the security of our allies and the democracies throughout the world. . . .
If we are willing to spend trillions of dollars to insure communism's defeat in the cold war, surely we should be willing to invest a tiny fraction of that to support democracy's success where communism failed.
To be sure, the former Soviet republics and especially Russia must be willing to assume most of the hard work and high cost of the reconstruction process. . . .
These five steps constitute an agenda for American action in a global economy. As such, they constitute an agenda for our own prosperity as well.
Some may wish we could pursue our own domestic effort, strictly through domestic policies, as we have understood them in the past. But in this global economy there is no such thing as a purely domestic policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton called for more aid to Russia and the other former Soviet republics in a speech yesterday at American University in Washington. With him were former Senator J. William Fulbright, center, and Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



780 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Sways to Clinton's New Economic Tune

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
After two staid decades among the gray suits of Washington and Wall Street, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, is suddenly popping up in the oddest places.
First, there he was grinning next to Bill Clinton at an Oval Office "photo op" shortly after the new President took office. Then there was the night recently when he found himself wedged uneasily between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Tipper Gore as President Clinton introduced his economic package before a joint session of Congress. 
 And finally, in three marathon appearances before Congress, while almost all of his fellow conservatives were heaping scorn on Mr. Clinton's plan, Mr. Greenspan lavished praise upon it, something he had declined to do for President George Bush's economic policies.
 It is obvious why the Clintons want to court Mr. Greenspan. The Clinton plan will, of course, face easier going in Congress if a respected conservative like Mr. Greenspan gives it a thumbs-up. In addition, his immense influence over short-term interest rates could help make or break the President's proposals.
But why, everyone in Washington seems to be asking, has this Republican stalwart suddenly joined hands with Bill and Hillary Clinton? Why, enraged Republicans demand, is Mr. Greenspan acting nicer to Mr. Clinton than he did to Mr. Bush, who reappointed him a year ago to a second four-year term as chairman?
Certainly, Mr. Greenspan can afford to be more accommodating to politicians than he could have been a year or two ago, because inflation has fallen and there are no signs that it will come back soon. In addition, Mr. Greenspan has a zealot's interest in reducing the budget deficit, and that is Mr. Clinton's goal as well.
But that does not entirely explain why Mr. Greenspan seems to be going along with the new President so enthusiastically. And some Fed watchers say the answer can be found in politics.
 They say it may have much to do with Mr. Greenspan's fears about losing some of the central bank's treasured independence -- that by staying visibly close to the new President, Mr. Greenspan could thwart an attempt by some Senators, led by Paul S. Sarbanes, the Maryland Democrat who is his primary Congressional tormentor, to take away some of the Fed's independence.
Whatever the reason, former Bush Administration officials and other Republicans hardly bother to disguise their resentment toward Mr. Greenspan, who held numerous posts during the Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Bush Administrations. Bush Administration alumni bitterly contrast his warm words for the Clinton plan with the way he spurned their pleas to cut interest rates faster to lift the economy out of recession. The main reason for Mr. Bush's defeat, some Bush aides say, was the Fed's foot-dragging on rate cuts.
Mr. Greenspan "has certainly created the appearance of a warm embrace of President Clinton," said John E. Robson, who was Deputy Treasury Secretary under President Bush. "Obviously one would like to feel, as the Administration that reappointed him, that we were warmly embraced, too. But we had our disagreements with him."
 Mr. Greenspan has told his associates that the reason he sat next to the First Lady in Congress was simple: she invited him. He felt it would have been churlish not to accept. "Hillary made him an offer he couldn't refuse," one Fed official said.
The arrangement was a public relations coup. Although Mr. Greenspan appeared about as comfortable as, say, a mouse caught between two cats, his appearance in the seat of honor seemed to signal that this guardian of America's fiscal rectitude had signed onto Mr. Clinton's deficit-reduction package.
Some of Mr. Greenspan's conservative friends were dismayed that he did not give Hillary an excuse, such as that he had to go bowling that Wednesday night. And they were shocked two days later when he voiced support for Mr. Clinton's economic package in an appearance before the Senate Banking Committee.
 
 
A Warm Response, Relatively

The Fed chairman called the plan "serious" and "credible" and hailed it for suggesting specific, line-by-line deficit-cutting measures, rather than the lofty, vague -- and empty -- deficit-cutting oratory of past proposals. From a man who normally shows all the exuberance of Uriah Heep, that sounded like a ringing endorsement. "The President is to be commended for placing on the table a serious proposal that is activating debate" on the deficit, Mr. Greenspan intoned. "Unless addressed, the deficit will increasingly threaten the stability of our economic system."
Many conservatives wondered aloud why Mr. Greenspan -- whose association with Ayn Rand, the hard-line free-market philosopher gave him an aversion to taxes and regulation -- would praise a deficit-cutting plan that relied more on tax increases than on spending cuts. All week, conservatives reminded him of their almost religious belief that increasing taxes would not cut the deficit because Congressional pork-barrelers will merely use the new revenues as an excuse to spend more.
"If what he means was that this package is going to reduce the deficit, then he has definitely flipped out," said Paul Craig Roberts, a Treasury official in the Reagan Administration.
In his 10 hours of Congressional testimony in the last week, two clear explanations emerged of why Mr. Greenspan went to bat for the President's plan -- even though he did not endorse every detail.
 
 
The Only Game in Town
 First, Mr. Greenspan, a devotee of deficit reduction, believes the new President stuck his neck out in presenting a plan to cut the deficit, and the least he could do was provide some support.
Second, although Mr. Greenspan would undoubtedly have written a vastly different deficit-cutting plan himself, focusing more on spending cuts, he felt compelled to praise the Clinton plan because there is no other vehicle in sight to cut the deficit.
Never before, his testimony makes clear, has he felt such urgency about the Federal deficit. The common view is that the deficit will dip for a few years and then explode to more than $600 billion at the end of the decade if nothing is done.
After testifying repeatedly in public this past week, Mr. Greenspan declined to sit down for an interview.
But anyone who talks to him at length knows that he sees himself -- at least in part -- as shepherd of the nation's bond markets, in which corporations and governments raise money by selling interest-paying bonds. In his view, the budget deficit is the biggest threat to his flock because it can fuel inflation, which erodes the value of bonds.
 But in Washington, where every action brings 100 skeptical reactions, many Fed watchers thought the decision to jump to Mr. Clinton's aid might have been motivated more by politics than economics.
"There is one reason why he praised the President's plan, and it is spelled S-A-R-B-A-N-E-S," said Prof. Allan H. Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University.
By that, Mr. Meltzer meant Senator Sarbanes, the vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a powerful voice on the Banking Committee. Convinced that the Greenspan Fed has done too little to promote growth, Mr. Sarbanes is pushing legislation that would reduce what Mr. Greenspan most cherishes: the independence of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Greenspan would not want to be remembered as someone who presided over the central bank when Congress clipped its wings.
Mr. Greenspan has told some Fed colleagues that he fears that the Sarbanes bill would have a better chance of passing under Mr. Clinton than under President Bush. Inside the Fed, one view is that Mr. Greenspan praised the Clinton plan because he feared that if he wasn't nice to the President, then Mr. Clinton would back the Sarbanes proposal.
"He ought to be nice to the Clinton plan because it is the first serious effort to address a lot of these problems since he became chairman," Mr. Sarbanes said in an interview.
 Some people who have spoken to Mr. Greenspan say that in private he is skeptical that Mr. Clinton's plan will cut the deficit by $140 billion in 1997, as promised.
Another view inside the Fed is that Mr. Greenspan has bent over backward to praise the Clinton plan to buy some peace. After taking a beating during the Bush Administration, Mr. Greenspan knows there will be battles ahead with Mr. Clinton, and his recent actions are undoubtedly helping him to build good will.
"He is not looking to pick a fight with the new Administration," said Lawrence A. Kudlow, chief economist with Bear, Stearns and an economist in the Reagan Administration. "He knows that the nanosecond the Fed raises interest rates, he's going to have a major fight on his hands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman known as a Republican stalwart, stood between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Tipper Gore as President Clinton introduced his economic package on Feb. 17. They were flanked by John Sculley, left, of Apple Computer, and Albert Gore 3d. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (74%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



781 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Last Quarter's Growth Revised to Robust 4.8%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
The economy expanded at a robust pace of 4.8 percent in the final three months of 1992, the best quarterly performance in five years, the Commerce Department reported today.
The revised estimate of gross domestic product -- the total output of goods and services within American borders -- was a full percentage point higher than the initial estimate published a month ago. 
 The growth rate for the full year was 2.1 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent contraction in 1991, which included the final three months of a seven-month recession that began in July 1990.
The strong fourth-quarter showing was seen by economists as conclusive evidence of an economic surge during the second half of 1992, when the economy grew at a 4.1 percent annual rate, up from 2.2 percent for the first half.
But because the jump in output was mainly a result of greater efficiency, which implied little employment growth, it was scant help to the re-election campaigns of President George Bush and fellow Republicans, who were unable to persuade voters that the economy was sufficiently on the mend.
Even now, analysts said, it is unlikely that President Clinton will be dissuaded from pursuing his plan for modest stimulus. They note that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has been cautioning for the last week or so against complacency.
Figures issued today showed that consumer confidence fell back a bit in February while the industrial sector of the economy, as represented by the behavior of Chicago-area purchasing managers, remained buoyant.
The upward revision in G.D.P., which was in line with what economists had come to expect, was powered by improved gains in consumer spending and exports, and a smaller shrinkage in business inventories.
The holiday spending spree pushed consumer spending up at a 4.8 percent pace, instead of the 4.3 percent estimated last month, while exports climbed at a 9.8 percent rate instead of 3.7 percent. Inventories fell by $2.7 billion less than first reported by the department.
Still, economists say the robust economic pace of late 1992 is probably already on the wane.
"It looks to me that consumer spending has gotten ahead of personal income," said Richard D. Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities. He allowed that the current high rate of home-mortgage refinancing would help sustain consumer spending, but said this would not be enough to fully offset sluggish jobs and earnings growth and some ebbing of consumer confidence.
Indeed, data from the University of Michigan today showed that the address by President Clinton on Feb. 17 outlining his economic plan apparently fanned consumer anxiety about the economy's prospects.
The university's index of consumer sentiment, which measures optimism and pessimism about the economy, fell to 86.6 in February from 89.3 last month, with virtually all the decline recorded after the speech. A preliminary calculation of the index based on responses during the first half of the month had showed that confidence had simply leveled off after sharp gains.
Another poll, a weekly survey published Thursday by ABC and Money magazine, showed that consumers gave the President's performance high marks but turned fearful about their own financial situations. Still another survey, one conducted by the Conference Board before the Clinton speech, showed a sharp drop in confidence.
Yet another survey, by Sindlinger & Company, found that consumer confidence rose 1.5 percent in the week after the Clinton speech but that there was a sharp divergence between those who owned stock and those who did not.
For stockholders, confidence tumbled to the lowest level in the 39 years of the firm's daily polling but this was more than offset by a smaller rise among the more numerous group of nonstockholders.
At Dillard Department Stores Inc., a regional chain based in Little Rock, Ark., a spokesman said business had fallen off since last week's speech. "We are not sure whether it was the speech or the weather," she said.
The Michigan results showed that consumers remained fairly upbeat about current conditions -- the reading of 96 was practically unchanged -- but dubious about conditions six months from now. The expectations component of the index, part of the Government's principal gauge for forecasting the economy, slipped to 80.6, from 83.4 in January.
 
Throttling-Down Seen
 David C. Munro, chief economist for High Frequency Economics, a New York adviser, was one of numerous economists who thought the economy had already begun to throttle down from its rapid fourth-quarter pace.
"I think we're probably doing 3 percent now," he said, referring to current G.D.P. growth. He added that the output pace could dip to 2 percent during the spring before edging up again.
"It is almost wholly a productivity advance," Mr. Munro said, a development that bodes well for the nation's standard of living in the long run but that suggests limited consumer buying power in the short run.
At a fourth-quarter pace of $3.36 trillion, personal spending accounted for 67.3 percent of G.D.P., which totaled $4.99 trillion expressed in constant 1987 dollars.
Today's G.D.P. also showed that current-dollar G.D.P., unadjusted for inflation, rose at a 7.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter, compared with a 5.7 percent estimate a month ago. The fixed-weighted price index for gross domestic purchases remained at 2.8 percent.
The savings rate -- personal savings as a percentage of disposable personal income -- was calculated at 4.5 percent, the same as in January.
The 4.8 percent rate of advance in G.D.P. was the fastest since a 5.9 percent burst in the fourth quarter of 1987. The 3.8 percent gain reported a month ago had been the fastest since the fourth quarter of 1988, the last full quarter of the Reagan Administration.
Following are data included in the gross domestic product for the fourth quarter of 1992. All dollar amounts are in billions at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Percentage changes are from the previous quarter at seasonally adjusted annual rates.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth" shows annual rate of change in the gross domestic product from '88 to '92 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 42)
 
Chart: "Current Prices"

	Last	Pct.	Current Prices	Quarter	Chg.	Gross Domestic Product	$6,082.1	7.1	Consumption	4,190.9	8.2	Business investment	562.4	9.6	Inventory change	11.6	N.A.	Housing	232.4	31.6	Net exports	-39.6	N.A.	Government	1,124.3	0.0	Memo: Final sales*	6,070.5	7.4	1987 Prices	 	 	ss Domestic Product	$4,991.5	4.8	Consumption	3,357.7	4.8	Business investment	531.1	9.9	Inventory Change	9.9	N.A.	Housing	202.7	26.1	Net exports	-48.0	N.A.	Government	938.0	-2.1	Memo: Final sales*	5,029.5	5.2	G.D.P. price deflator		2.0	G.D.P. fixed-weighted price index		2.9.	
 
*G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Data are not applicable.
Source: Commerce Department (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (51%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (87%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



782 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: EXPLOSION AT THE TWIN TOWERS: Car Bombs;
A Tool of Foreign Terror, Little Known in U.S.

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
The phenomenon is well known in Belfast, Lima, Bogota and Beirut, but if the explosion that rocked the World Trade Center today was indeed caused by a car bombing, as the F.B.I. believes, it would be the largest such attack in American history, experts said.
Not since 1975, when 11 people were killed at La Guardia Airport, has anyone used a bomb, delivered in any fashion, to kill so many civilians in the United States. It is unknown whether a terrorist group was responsible for the explosion today. 
 "This is the largest-scale bombing on U.S. soil in modern history" in terms of fatalities and material damage, said Brian Jenkins, a security consultant with Kroll & Associates who is one of the nation's leading private experts on terrorism.
If the American setting is novel, however, the apparent use of a vehicle as a platform for the bomb represents only the latest use of what for more than four decades has been a favorite tool for terrorists.
 
How to Pack a Big Punch
 Ever since the Irish Republican Army first used the car bomb in 1971, Mr. Jenkins and other experts said, terrorist groups have found no better way to bring so much explosive power so close to a target.
In the last several weeks alone, car bombs have exploded repeatedly on the streets of cities in Colombia and on the streets of London. If the tactic until now has been barely known in the United States, experts said, it is a reflection only of what has until now been Americans' relative immunity from terrorism on their own shores.
"Think of how simple it is," said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism specialist with the Rand Corporation. "Think how many people pull into a garage or park on a street, lock their car and then walk away."
Assassins in the United States have frequently planted bombs in a target's vehicle, including that of the former Foreign Minister Orlando Letelier of Chile who, along with an aide, was killed in a 1976 attack. But Mr. Hoffman and others said the only previous known use of a car bomb in an indiscriminate attack on civilians in the United States occurred in 1973, as part of an attack by Puerto Rican nationalists on five New York banks.
What until now were the two largest terrorist bombings in American history were staged without the help of a car. The most deadly, an explosion in a La Guardia airport terminal, left 11 people dead in 1975. No one claimed responsibility in the attack.
The same year, four people were killed and 65 wounded in the bombing by Puerto Rican separatists of the historic Fraunces Tavern in Lower Manhattan. Even the most recent close call, the arrest in 1988 of a suspected Japanese Red Army member carrying explosives on the New Jersey Turnpike, was believed to have thwarted, not a car bombing, but a more conventional attack.
But as the 1983 assault on a United States Marine barracks in Beirut that killed 241 suggests, the addition of a vehicle to any bombing plot can multiply its destructive power.
Experts say terrorists were initially attracted to car bombs because they could haul heavy loads. Without access to sophisticated explosives, Irish Republican Army terrorists found that an car could carry enough nitrate fertilizer mixed with diesel fuel to create a blast that no hand-delivered explosive could match.
But the experts say the development of potent plastic explosives has added to the threat posed by terrorists, permitting them to pack far more destructive power into a much smaller space. While rarely known to have been used in a car bomb, so-called plastique explosives can explode at a velocity of 23,000 feet per second, many times the rate of ordinary dynamine.
At the same time, terrorists have learned that the seemingly benign shell of a vehicle can allow them to conceal explosives in particularly effective settings. If the aim of whoever planned today's bombing was to create maximum impact, the experts say, the apparent use of the World Trade Center parking garage for a platform is a reminder of the deadly access a vehicle can bring.
For one thing, they said, the enclosed structure of a garage would multiply any explosive's impact, preventing its energy from escaping except at the weakest point, either the walls or the ceiling. Mr. Jenkins of Kroll & Associates said the underground structure would guarantee perhaps more than any other setting that "the explosive force would be more greatly exaggerated."
Perhaps more important, the vehicular access provided to the World Trade Center complex may have provided an opportunity for what other experts said they believed was an attack staged for its impact upon a highly visible American target.
"A car bomb in a street in New York doubtlessly would have killed more people," said Mr. Hoffman of the Rand Corporation, who is the author of several surveys of terrorism in the United States. "But the World Trade Center is a symbol of Wall Street and the Manhattan skyline and the United States itself, and I think that is very important.
"Putting a bomb in a car is not sophisticated," he said. "What's sophisticated about this operation, I would argue, is the planning and calculations that went into it to extract the maximum publicity possible."
After the blast, Federal and local authorities in Washington tightened security around Government buildings and other possible targets in what they described as a precaution against a further attacks. Among Federal officials specializing in explosives, the explosion elicited a sense of awe.
"This is a tremendous blast doing huge amounts of structural damage to steel and concrete," said Jack Killorin, a spokesman in Washington for the Treasury Department's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. "I can't overstate this: What went down there was big."
 
 
 
AT A GLANCE -- New York as Victim: Other Bombings
Previous terrorist bomb explosions in New York City
 
Jan. 24, 1974: Four people were killed and 55 injured in a bombing at Fraunces Tavern. In lower Manhattan, the site where George Washington bid farewell to his officers. A Puerto Rican independence group, knows as the Armed Forces of National Liberation or F.A.L.N. claimed responsibility.
 
Dec. 29, 1975: Eleven people were killed and 75 hurt when a bomb that had been placed in a coin-operated locker exploded at the TWA terminal at LaGuardia Airport
 
Aug. 3, 1977: One person was killed in a bombing at the Mobil Oil building, 150 East 42nd Street. The F.A.L.N. claimed responsibility.
 
PUB-DATE: May 16, 1981:
 
Dec. 31, 1982: Three police officers were gravely injured in bombings in Manhattan and Brooklyn. The F.A.L.N. took responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) TERRORISM (94%); BOMBINGS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); HISTORY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



783 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The economy expanded at the robust pace of 4.8 percent in the final three months of 1992, the best quarterly performance in five years. Economists saw the strong fourth-quarter showing for gross domestic product as evidence of an economic surge. But the Administration still appears to be planning a stimulus. [Page 35.] 
 Alan Greenspan is suddenly popping up in the oddest places after two staid decades among the gray suits of Washington and Wall Street. Some think the Federal Reserve chairman is courting Presidential alliances to preserve the Fed's independence from intrusion by the Senate. [35.]
 
International
President Clinton, in a speech devoted to international economics and trade, said the United States must spend more than planned to bolster the economies of Russia and the other former Soviet republics. He endorsed George Bush's trade policies and demanded that foreign markets be opened further to American products. [1.]
The President's strong endorsement of free trade is an attempt to reconcile the need for open international markets with his commitment to help industries at home. News Analysis. [6.]
 
Companies
General Electric will cut its aircraft-engine work force by more than 10 percent because of slow aircraft orders. Most of the cuts will come at the units headquarters near Cincinnati. [35.]
A meeting of personal-computer executives reveals that the leaders of the $70 billion-a-year industry are a close-knit tribe of 30- to 40-year-old Californians who grew up together. [35.]
Leslie Fay announced preliminary results of an audit of accounting irregularities. The dress company lost $13.7 million in 1992 and revised 1991 earnings to $17 million from $29 million. [37.]
First Union agreed to buy the largest remaining subsidiary of First American Bankshares, the company embroiled in the Bank of Credit and Commerce International scandal. [37.]
Salomon's Phibro unit said the White Nights petroleum joint venture in Siberia it operates faces bankruptcy unless it settles a dispute with Russia over oil export taxes. [37.]
The Baltimore-area home of Eli S. Jacobs, the financially troubled businessman and owner of the Baltimore Orioles baseball team, was sold at a court-ordered auction. [37.]
 
Markets
Stocks completed a week of recovery with modest gains but some continuing queasiness. The Dow rose 5.67 points, to 3,370.81, ending the week with a gain of 48.63 points. [36.]
Bond prices were mostly lower in light trading after an explosion at the World Trade Center curtailed activity. The 30-year Treasury bond yield rose to 6.90 percent. [44.]
Grains and soybeans rose and energy futures declined in trading shortened by an explosion at the World Trade Center. [46.]
The dollar firmed against most major currencies, especially the Japanese yen. Gold prices eased. [46.]
 
Your Money
The President's proposed energy tax will have a varied impact on the budgets of three types of families: Manhattan apartment dwellers, suburban householders and rural residents. [33.]
Fine-tuning an investment portfolio to minimize the bite of new taxes is advised, but moving money around can be costly and can often offset the tax-savings of new investments. [33.]
Commemorative medals have so little bullion content that they can never recoup their high sales prices. [33.]
Local bar associations are expanding their activities to provide referral services to find lawyers. [34.]
A Long Island saleswoman made a hefty profit by self-publishing her book on massage. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (76%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (65%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (76%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); FUTURES (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (69%); BASEBALL (69%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (66%); ACCOUNTING (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (52%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



784 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 5.67, to 3,370.81; Gain for Week Is 48.63

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Stocks completed a week of recovery yesterday with modest gains but some continuing queasiness. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.67 points, to 3,370.81, ending the week with a gain of 48.63 points, or almost 1.5 percent.
This left the Dow only about 20 points below where it stood two weeks ago, just before the market's worst one-day plunge in 15 months as details of the Clinton budget proposals emerged.
 
Helped by Bond Rally
 The week's rally in the bond market helped stocks, as did a calmer look at the Clinton plan. "People are beginning to analyze the total package in a somewhat less emotional manner," said Stefan D. Abrams, a portfolio manager at the Trust Company of the West. "They realize that this nation is not going to commit economic suicide." 
 Big Board gainers have consistently outnumbered losers recently, he pointed out, as they did yesterday by 1,151 to 757. Trading volume was relatively light, as some investment firms were forced to curtail their operations after the explosion at the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan.
A look at the Nasdaq market and many individual stocks continued to give some analysts pause. The Nasdaq Composite index rose 3.70, to 670.77 yesterday, up 7.16 points, or slightly more than 1 percent for the week. Despite shooting up so rapidly last fall, the Nasdaq index still has a net loss this year.
 
'There Were Disasters'
 Investors' reaction to disappointments last week was especially severe -- most of all for such biotechnology stocks as Amgen and Synergen, but also for issues that are usually less volatile. "Despite the advance today and weekly, there were disasters," said Harrison Roth, a senior options strategist at Cowen & Company. "Every day a different stock or stock group gets taken out and shot."
Yesterday, the makers of disk drives, or memory devices for personal computers, were on the firing line after Conner Peripherals predicted lower first-quarter earnings, citing increased competition. Conner fell 1 1/2, or 8.7 percent, to 16 3/4, in very heavy trading. Among other disk drive makers, Seagate Technology dropped a point, to 15 5/8; Maxtor 3/8, to 7 3/4; Quantum 1 5/8, to 15, and Western Digital 5/8, to 8 1/8.
The selloff appeared to harm the personal computer makers as well, as Compaq Computer fell 1 5/8, to 45 1/4.
One of the Big Board's biggest losers was Rollins Environmental Services, off a full point, or 11.2 percent, to 7 7/8, also on a dark earnings forecast.
Stocks proved about as capable of responding to good news, however. LDDS Communications, which provides long- distance telephone service, jumped 3 1/4, to 35 1/4, on news of a three-way merger.
The markets showed little apparent response yesterday to a full percentage point upward revision in the fourth-quarter economic growth. Railroads and airlines, among the stocks most sensitive to the economy, in fact fell steeply. With a 3 3/8-point drop in CSX to 70 1/8, the Dow Jones transportation average fell 14.10, nearly 1 percent, to 1,518.10.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STX (NASDAQ) (82%); COWN (NASDAQ) (65%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (50%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (50%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (82%); TRUST CO OF THE WEST (70%); COWEN GROUP INC (65%); AMGEN INC (54%); SAFETY-KLEEN INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (56%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



785 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Hard-Pressed Orioles Owner Sells His Home at a Loss

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The 11-room Baltimore-area home of Eli S. Jacobs, the financially troubled businessman and owner of the Baltimore Orioles baseball team, was sold at a court-ordered auction yesterday.
The 4,000-square-foot home, on six acres in Owings Mills, Md., fetched $1.44 million from an unidentified buyer as the press covered the sale. 
 Mr. Jacobs, who heads E. S. Jacobs & Company, an investment concern, had no comment, a spokesman said.
The sale of the house, for $800,000 less than Mr. Jacobs paid for it in 1990, is tangible evidence of the venture capitalist's tumble into debt in a variety of his enterprises.
 
Team Likely to Be Sold
 The sale is also a likely precursor to his sale of the Orioles to a group led by William DeWitt Jr., a Cincinnati businessman, for an estimated $140 million.
Mr. Jacobs is a secretive businessman who jumped into the leveraged-buyout binge of the mid-1980's, taking stakes in the Memorex Corporation and merging it with Telex as the Memorex Telex Corporation, and leading a leveraged buyout of Triangle Pacific, among other deals.
But with some of his deals going sour, Mr. Jacobs has been accused of defaulting on more than $40 million in loans and other commitments.
As his diverse and private business empire has fallen, Mr. Jacobs's most valuable asset has been the Orioles. Its value has soared since the opening last season of Oriole Park at Camden Yards, which drew 3.6 million fans.
 
An Asset, Not a Passion
 Mr. Jacobs may be able to erase most or all of his debts with the sale of the Orioles, which some baseball executives say he treated more like an asset to appreciate in value and sell than as an object of his sporting or civic passion.
"The lesson of Eli Jacobs is, wasn't he damned lucky to buy a baseball franchise," said Jack Sands, a player agent and author of the new book "Coming Apart at the Seams."
When the Orioles were sold in 1988 for $70 million by the estate of Edward Bennett Williams, the legendary defense lawyer, Mr. Jacobs took an 87 percent stake. His minority partners are the lawyer R. Sargent Shriver and Lawrence Lucchino, a former Williams protege who is the president of the profitable team.
If the DeWitt group buys the Orioles for $140 million, it may be a bargain. If Mr. Jacobs were not financially pressed the team could fetch probably $200 million, thanks to the cash generated at Camden Yards.
 
No Longer Hot Properties
 "His profits are probably $35 million to $40 million, so it being worth $200 million isn't out of whack," said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College and the author of "Baseball and Billions."
Baseball teams are no longer red-hot properties because of skyrocketing salaries, uncertainty over future costs, the absence of a commissioner, and an expected fall in television rights fees after this season. Mr. Zimbalist said Mr. DeWitt might be looking for a bargain in a troubled market.
Baseball has monitored Mr. Jacobs's financial problems, but top officials like Deputy Commissioner Steven Greenberg declined comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES JACOBS & CO (72%); VISARA INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ELI S; SANDOMIR, RICHARD; DEWITT, WILLIAM O JR

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



786 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: With Clinton Visit Due, Program at Rutgers Is Spotlighted

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., Feb. 26

 BODY:
When Luis Guardardo heard President Clinton's idea to make money available for students who serve their communities after graduation, he was immediately sold.
The 20-year-old sociology major at Rutgers University already makes community service part of his life. He tutors elementary-school students in an after-school program, takes courses in civic education and lives in the Community Service House, a residence for 40 students committed to doing volunteer work. 
 After graduation, Mr. Guardardo said, he hopes to return to his hometown, Union City, N.J., and teach for a few years before going to law school. "I think a lot of people have a genuine urge to give," he said, "but don't have the resources."
 
President Schedules a Visit
 Mr. Guardardo is one of close to 200 students enrolled in Rutgers University's Civic Education and Community Service Program, the most extensive undergraduate program in the country that combines volunteer work in the curriculum as an education in citizenship. He plans to to be there on Monday, when Mr. Clinton is scheduled to give a major policy address on national service at Rutgers' Lewis Brown Athletic Center in Piscataway.
Rutgers officials say they haven't been told exactly why the President decided to come here, but they presume their program's success is probably the reason.
Practical politics may also have played a role. "I dare say the fact that we have a Democratic Governor who is up for re-election may have something to do with it," said Dr. Benjamin R. Barber, director of the Walt Whitman Center for the Culture and Politics of Democracy, which coordinates the program.
No one at Rutgers, he added, has been told what the President is planning to say.
"All we know," Dr. Barber said, "is that he is calling it his most important address on the subject of national service. We're thrilled to be the backdrop for that."
The President has suggested that his national-service program would allow students to borrow money from the government to attend college. They could repay the loan in cash or by serving the community in such jobs as teachers, police officers or health-care and social workers.
The Civic Education and Community Service Program, in its fourth year, was the brainchild of the university's late president, Dr. Edward J. Bloustein, who saw it as a way to respond to what he saw as growing racism, sexism and alienation on campus, Dr. Barber said. Since it was started, 800 students have contributed 60,000 hours tutoring youths, teaching adults to read and working in AIDS programs.
Students in the program usually volunteer four to five hours a week of their time, working in teams with other students. They earn regular course credit, plus an extra academic credit for volunteer service. Class seminars discuss civic responsibility and the greater ramifications of what they see in their volunteer work.
Dr. Richard Battistoni, the program's director, said its purpose is to teach students that community service is not simply altruism, but a part of democracy.
"We have to be honest," he said. "A lot of the students have the spirit of community service instilled in them when they sign up. The payoff, we hope, is that students learn as well as help."
Community service, Dr. Barber said, is straightforward. "The problem has been that for the past 20 or so years, we've had a government telling students to do for themselves."
 
They Keep Serving
 Graduates of the program have usually continued some type of community-service involvement, Dr. Battistoni said.
The program is voluntary for most students, although Rutgers honors students are required to take one of the dozen or so courses that include a community-service component. The courses, taught at the Camden, New Brunswick and Newark campuses, include "The Civic Community, H.I.V. and Public Policy," "Urban Literacy Practicum" and "Citizenship, Democracy and the Role of Performing Artists."
Stacey Bader, a 21-year-old senior in the program who has been volunteering in various campus projects since she was a freshman, said she is noticing more and more students are also volunteering.
"We pretty much feel that you just can't keep taking from society," said Ms. Bader, a political science and history major now working in an elementary-school after-school program. "I really feel that students are starting to realize that in order to solve the economic problems, you really have to have social responsibility."
"That's why the President's coming is such an exciting thing," she added. "Just the entire initiation of this idea reminds me of F.D.R."
While saying he was excited by President Clinton's commitment, Dr. Barber expressed some concern that the President's plan would attract students motivated only by getting their tuition paid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Guardardo is one of close to 200 students enrolled in Rutgers University's Civic Education and Community Service Program. The program combines volunteer work in the curriculum as an education in citizenship. Stacey Bader, a 21-year-old senior in the program who has been volunteering in various campus projects since she was a freshman, said she is noticing more and more students are also volunteering. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; VOLUNTEERS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); AIDS & HIV (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); GOVERNORS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NIEVES, EVELYN BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



787 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Off in Disrupted Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Bond prices were mostly lower in light trading yesterday after an explosion and fire beneath the World Trade Center curtailed activity at many New York brokerage firms and distracted traders.
The price of the Treasury's main 30-year bond was down 35/16 point, while its yield rose to 6.90 percent. 
 On Thursday, the bond's yield closed at 6.88 percent. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions.
"The big story is the fire," Gib Clark, chief trader at Daiwa Securities Inc., said at midafternoon. "I don't think anybody's paying any attention to the market."
 
Operations Curtailed
 Trading continued but was extremely quiet after the midday fire forced several major firms in the trade center's twin towers -- Salomon Brothers, Dean Witter and Cantor Fitzgerald -- to shut or sharply curtail operations.
The quieter day followed a hectic week that saw a 2 9/32 -point price gain Monday and Tuesday in the 30-year bond and sent the bond's yield to an all-time low of 6.82 percent. Analysts said trading was slow yesterday even before the explosion.
"The market was out of gas," said John Slosberg, senior fixed-income analyst at the Technical Data Global Markets Group in Boston. "It was a tough week; people got battered and bruised."
Mr. Slosberg attributed yesterday's moderate gains in short- and medium-term maturities to positioning ahead of the weekend and some profit taking.
Gary Schlossberg, senior economist at Wells Fargo & Company in San Francisco, said the market shrugged off an upward revision of Government figures for fourth-quarter economic growth.
Signs of a buoyant economy tend to depress bond prices because faster growth is usually associated with higher inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income investments.
 
Data Set Next Week
 Next week, the release of a number of important economic indicators, including February unemployment and factory orders, could bring renewed volatility to the market, traders said.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, short-term maturities advanced between 3/32 point and 3/16 point, while intermediate maturities gained 3/16 point to 5/16 point, the Telerate Inc. financial information service reported. The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, which measures price movements on all Treasury issues outstanding with maturities of a year or longer, rose 1.12, to 1,294.93.
Yields on three-month Treasury bills were unchanged at 2.99 percent with the discount at 2.94 percent. Yields on six-month bills rose to 3.13 percent as the discount rose one basis point, to 3.05 percent. Yields on one-year bills fell to 3.28 percent as the discount fell two basis points, to 3.17 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was 3 1/4 percent, up from 3 1/8 percent late Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); TRI (TSX) (63%); TRI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (63%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); EXPLOSIONS BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INFLATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FIRES (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



788 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Firmer as Group of 7 Gathers for London Talks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar firmed against most major currencies yesterday, especially the yen, as traders tried to anticipate the outcome of this weekend's Group of Seven ministers meeting.
Gold prices eased. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery closed at $329.00 an ounce, off $1.60. A late bid at the Republic National Bank in New York quoted it at $328.10 an ounce, off $1.40. 
 The weekend meeting in London of the Group of Seven -- the cabinet finance members from the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy -- was the focus of attention for many market participants.
Earl Johnson, a vice president at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, said he did not expect the meeting to produce agreement on the yen's value. The yen, which has rallied recently, slipped against the dollar as a result, he said.
 
Dollar Up in Tokyo
 In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 117.85 yen, up 0.32 yen from Thursday's close. Later in London it rose to 118.05 yen. At closing in New York, the dollar closed at 118.25 yen, up from 117.475 late Thursday.
Traders said expectations were high that Germany's Bundesbank would have to cut interest rates, perhaps next week, after a wage settlement with German workers and renewed pressures in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism on the French franc.
In Europe, the dollar closed at 1.6422 German marks, up from 1.6345 late Thursday. In New York, it closed at 1.6455 marks, up from 1.6350 marks late Thursday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.4230, from $1.4297 late Thursday, while in New York, sterling's closing quote was $1.4240, less expensive than $1.4315 late Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.5275 Swiss francs, up from 1.5170; 5.5910 French francs, up from 5.5500; 1,588.00 Italian lire, down from 1,594.00, and 1.25025 Canadian dollars, down from 1.25175.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late rates Thursday, included: 1.5255 Swiss francs, up from 1.5175; 5.5790 French francs, up from 5.5495; 1.8472 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8380; 1,586.00 Italian lire, down from 1,591.00, and 1.2496 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2535.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (88%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (88%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



789 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: One Man's Arrival in Town Exposes a Racial Fault Line

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIDOR, Tex., Feb. 23

 BODY:
As he dropped off a box full of his belongings at 530 National Drive here a few days ago, John DecQuir Sr. told one of his future neighbors, who looked on curiously: "I don't understand why this is such a big deal. I'm just renting an apartment."
But his move into the federally financed housing project in Vidor has become a very big deal in this small city in the piney woods of East Texas, one that has forced the police to set up a 24-hour-a-day patrol outside his home. Mr. DecQuir, local officials say, is the first black adult to live in Vidor since the 1920's. 
 The 58-year-old Mr. DecQuir (pronounced DEK-weer) is a one-man pilot program in a sweeping order last fall by a Federal judge to desegregate 170 housing projects, some all white and some all black, in 36 counties across east Texas. The order was unusual in its breadth, but in all-white Vidor, where a Ku Klux Klan branch once operated a book and supply store on Main Street, the order is all the more unusual for what it has produced: a black man willing to move in.
Although 1,300 blacks are on the waiting list for public housing in a three-county area here, and 45,000 blacks live in the nearby city of Beaumont, Mr. DecQuir was the only one who volunteered to come to Vidor.
 
Sharp Dividing Line
 The desegregation order has led to Klan rallies in Vidor, and the rallies in turn have prompted an anti-Klan vigil by several Vidor churches. More broadly, in a town of 10,800 people where some celebrate and others bemoan its past image as a Klan stronghold, Mr. DecQuir's move has revealed a stark fault line between whites who have rushed to welcome him and those who have warned him to stay away.
The divide was evident today even in the immediate vicinity of his apartment, one of the 74 vinyl-and-brick units set in a swampy pine grove on the south side of town.
Roxcie Setzer, a member of the women's guild at Central Baptist Church, drove up and wedged a note in the door, inviting Mr. DecQuir to a soup-and-sandwich meal at the church and concluding, "Jesus loves you and we love you, too!"
One new neighbor, Joyce Dennis, said she was eager to have Mr. DecQuir over for coffee. "This is the 1990's," she said. "It's time for Vidor to get the past behind and get on with it."
 
Hostility Easy to Find
 But it was just as easy to find people who were adamantly opposed to having Mr. DecQuir live anywhere near them and who wanted nothing to do with him. Among them was Marie Johnson, an unemployed waitress, 46, whose home is across a grassy courtyard from Mr. DecQuir's. "He best not come over here to meet me or he's liable to meet a baseball bat," she said.
Her 27-year-old daughter, Joyce, who was asked what she would do if Mr. DecQuir simply came over to borrow an egg, shook her head. "No, no, no," she said, dismissing the thought with a racial epithet. "I might be holding an egg right there in my hand but I'd sure say, sorry, I've got no eggs."
While plenty of people in Vidor readily allow that they do not like black people, period, others argue that they have nothing personal against Mr. DecQuir, a former concrete finisher who now lives on a disability check he receives because of a diabetic condition. It's just that they fear what will happen next, they say.
"Long as he doesn't bother me I'm not going to bother him," said a 68-year-old woman who gave only her first name, Frances. She watched from her kitchen window the other day as Mr. DecQuir unloaded his pickup truck.
 
Fear of Young Blacks
 "It's not really him I'm worried about," she said. "I'm worried about the younger blacks. They're the rough ones. We've already got some rough white ones living in here, and if blacks come in, there's no telling what will happen."
The gray-haired Mr. DecQuir has gone to great lengths to play down his arrival. "They say that faith can move mountains," he said during a break from his unpacking. "This ain't nothing but a molehill."
Nevertheless, almost everything about the desegregation of the Vidor housing project seems mired in controversy, beginning with Mr. DecQuir himself. For one thing, many of his new neighbors say they are angry that he has a criminal record. He was imprisoned for five months last year for violating a parole agreement stemming from a 1989 conviction for assaulting his estranged wife.
Vidor's Mayor, Ruth Woods, who has argued strenuously in favor of peaceful integration of the Vidor complex, complained to officials of the Department of Housing and Urban Development that Vidor had been put in a precarious position because many people in the complex were seizing on the record as a pretext for kicking him out, even though several white people living there also have criminal records.
The executive director of the Orange County Housing Authority, Richard Stanfield, said Federal law prohibited his agency from using a criminal record to bar a qualified applicant like Mr. DecQuir from public housing.
Vidor, on Interstate 10 a few miles west of the Louisiana border, was founded by the father of the movie director King Vidor. Its economy is largely dependent on jobs from the much bigger refinery towns Port Arthur and Beaumont. But until the early 1970's it was known for being something else: a hotbed of Klan activity.
At least six competing branches of the Klan had bases here, including one that set up its headquarters and store on Main Street. A hand-lettered sign stood untouched near the entrance to the town for several years in the 1960's: "Nigger, Don't Let the Sun Set on You in Vidor."
While there are still Klan sympathizers here, the official Klan apparatus has drifted away, people here say. The city canceled a 1982 Christmas parade after an outside Klan group said it would enter a float. But now Mr. DecQuir's move has brought back the specter of Klan rallies, even as most of the participants came from out of town.
For instance, the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, based in Waco, rallied in Vidor on Feb. 20, protesting the integration of the housing project as well as a recent subpoena served by the Texas Department of Human Rights that sought the Klan group's membership records.
The desegregation order affecting Vidor's and dozens of other projects was handed down in September by Judge William Wayne Justice of Federal District Court in a case that began 12 years before. Although it does not mandate that every all-white or all-black project bring in residents of a different color, the order requires that open applications are encouraged.
And in some cases, specific apartments are to be reserved for people of specific races. This is the case in Vidor, where 8 of the project's 74 units are being kept vacant, ready for black tenants, though there is a long list of whites who want to move in.
Mr. Stanfield, the county housing director, sent questionnaires to 1,300 black people in the area who are waiting for public housing, informing them about the opening in Vidor, where the rents are based on income and range from $26 a month to $250.
But only four people have so far expressed interest, he said. One dropped out after finding housing elsewhere, and two others, both single mothers, are hesitating. Mr. Stanfield, who helped Mr. DecQuir move a couch and a television set into the apartment last week, is hoping that Mr. DecQuir's presence will encourage other blacks to join him.
Mr. Stanfield is predicting a smooth transition, though there are plans to keep the 24-hour police detail for at least a month. The $8,182-a-week overtime is being paid by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Mrs. Dennis and her husband, Ross, the former president of the tenants' council, say they have told Mr. DecQuir that he is welcome to visit them anytime. They think that once people get to know their new neighbor, things are likely to be just fine.
"I told him, the coffee pot's always boiling," Mr. Dennis said.
But others in the project, including those who say they bear the new tenant no ill will, say they do not think desegregation in Vidor will work. "The whole thing is a sad joke," said Philip Freeman, 28, who gave his occupation as "housewife" as he watched after his two young sons. "Someone's going to get hurt. Probably not today, probably not this month as long as the police are around. But after it calms down, somebody's going to get hurt."
And some say they are unsure how it will all turn out. "I don't know," said Paula Strong, a 37-year-old mother of three. "I haven't met the guy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: According to local officials, John DecQuir Sr. is the first black adult to live in the East Texas town of Vidor since the 1920's. Police officers guard his home in the federally financed housing project 24 hours a day.
 "He best not come over here to meet me or he's liable to meet a baseball bat," said Marie Johnson, who like her daughter, Joyce Pearson, far left, is unhappy about living across the street from Mr. DecQuir.
 "This is the 1990's. It's time for Vidor to get the past behind and get on with it," said Joyce Dennis, below, who lives nearby with her husband, Ross. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)
 
Map of Texas showing location of Vidor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KU KLUX KLAN

ORGANIZATION: KU KLUX KLAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIDOR (TEX) UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RACIAL RELATIONS; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US); PUBLIC HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); COUNTIES (75%); TRENDS (70%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: DECQUIR, JOHN SR; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



790 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plans an Overhaul Of Student Loan Program

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to restructure the Federal student loan program to give tens of thousands of college students a way to pay off their loans through national service, Administration officials said today.
The officials said they hoped that by the end of this year a program would be in place that would create about 20,000 jobs in public works and social services in its first year of existence. They estimated that the program would eventually provide more than 100,000 jobs after three years or so for people before or after they attend college. 
 The President will propose spending $9.5 billion over the next five years on the program, they said, and businesses and local governments would also be expected to contribute. The money is included in the economic plan made public by the Administration last week.
 
Trip to New Jersey
 Mr. Clinton plans to announce details of the effort on Monday when he travels to the main campus of Rutgers University in New Jersey to tour the community service program there and visits an adult learning center in New Brunswick that houses a youth corps program Monday is also the 32d anniversary of President Kennedy's signing of an executive order to establish the Peace Corps.
As a prelude to demonstrating his commitment to the national service concept, White House officials said, Mr. Clinton will also announce a much smaller program to provide jobs for 1,000 to 2,000 young people this summer. The Administration budgeted about $15 million for the program in the stimulus package he proposed to Congress.
White House officials said they were still tinkering with many details of the broader program, including its exact size and how it would be financed and administered. But it is already clear that the program would start out more modestly than the grand effort that Mr. Clinton talked about at virtually every campaign stop in last year's campaign, prompting his biggest applause lines.
Evoking images of President Kennedy, Mr. Clinton said at one stop that his service proposal would be "a domestic G.I. bill that would give every young American the chance to borrow the money necessary to go to college and ask them to pay it back either as a small percentage of their income over time or through national service as teachers or policemen or nurses or child-care workers."
 
High Priority of Program
 Mr. Clinton's advisers insist that national service is a top priority and will still be a large-scale effort.
"It is remarkable and a sign of deep commitment that in a great period of fiscal stringency, the President was able to make room for a very, very dramatic expansion of opportunities to serve," said William A. Galston, a domestic policy adviser who has helped develop the program. "He believes it will make an enormous contribution to meeting needs in this country, to expanding opportunities and revitalizing citizenship, and he is determined to move forward just as quickly as practicable."
Senator Harris Wofford, the Pennsylvania Democrat who for years has discussed the idea of national service with Mr. Clinton and will accompany him to New Jersey on Monday, said: "I think it's going to be a big part of the Clinton Administration. It's starting on a big enough scale to get real momentum. But the expansion of it is going to depend on taxpayers in general and young people in particular finding that it really works."
White House officials said many of the details of the program would be contained in a legislative proposal that Mr. Clinton will send to Congress in the coming weeks.
 
Overhaul of Existing Program
 But the officials said it was clear that the existing Federal guaranteed student loan program would be overhauled. Under the plan, students will probably be eligible to get loans directly from the Government instead of through banks and pay them back after they graduate. The payment plan would be determined by the person's income.
The new program would cover barely a fraction of the more than five million college students with Government loans. White House officials said they had not figured out what to do in the likely event that the program was oversubscribed.
To help publicize the program, Vice President Al Gore will travel to the University of Wisconsin in Madison on Monday to promote national service as a way to help the environment. And the President is expected to talk about the program in his weekly radio address to the nation on Saturday.
The President has said he wants to make sure that colleges do not use the program as an excuse to increase college costs, with the knowledge that it would be easier for students to pay for college.
Between tuition benefits and a modest stipend for living expenses, White House officials said the service corps could cost as much as $20,000 per participant each year. But they said they were considering partial payment of tuition to keep costs down.
There are other outstanding issues, such as who would pay for training of police officers and teachers in the program, positions for which training is far more costly than it is for other jobs.
 
Working Out Details
 Other unknowns include how the program, which is being coordinated from the White House by Eli J. Segal, would be administered, particularly since officials said that there would be no central training project and that they would rely heavily on existing community programs around the country. Officials said they also had not resolved how they would verify that the jobs were legitimate.
The officials said they still had not worked out what proportion of jobs would go to high school students and what proportion to college students.
"The problem with these sorts of things is that they always sound great in theory," said Doug Bandow, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a free-market research organization here who is a critic of the idea.
"But who's going to decide what the service projects are? Who's going to decide what happens if they don't perform well? Who's going to sort out the objections from labor unions who will complain that they are being displaced?"
 
Breakdown of Spending
 The White House officials said Mr. Clinton had proposed that $100 million in Federal funds go for the program in the fiscal year 1994. The amount would increase to more than $1 billion in 1995, nearly $2 billion in 1996, $3 billion in 1997 and nearly $3.5 billion in 1998.
Mr. Galston dismissed worries about opponents in Congress, saying, "If we do our job right, there should be a significant bipartisan consensus behind the President's program."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); PEACE CORPS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); PEACE CORPS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; FEDERAL AID (US); VOLUNTEERS; ELECTION ISSUES STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



791 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Teachers Union In Los Angeles Accepts Pay Cut

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 26

 BODY:
The Los Angeles teachers union voted decisively today to accept a 10 percent pay cut as part of a compromise agreement that averts a strike on Monday over a salary dispute.
A preliminary count of the votes by the 27,000-member union showed 68 percent approving the agreement, union officials said. 
 With the nation's second-largest school district critically ailing, its 32,000 teachers were asked in October to accept pay cuts averaging 12 percent, along with other district employees, to help make up for a $400 million deficit in its $3.9 billion budget.
 
Cause for Concern
 Demoralized and already paying out of their own pockets for classroom supplies, the teachers threatened a strike. The prospect of a strike horrified local leaders because it would have put the district's 641,000 schoolchildren out on the streets as the city braces for the possibility of new riots over the trial of four white police officers in the beating of Rodney G. King and that of three black men accused of beating a white truck driver.
"Chaos would result from a strike," warned Marguerite Archie-Hudson, a State Assemblywoman from Los Angeles.
The compromise accepted today was worked out with the mediation of State Assembly Speaker Willie Brown Jr. It was approved on Monday by the school board and voted on by the teachers over the last two days.
The acceptance of a smaller pay cut will not be painless for the district, which gets 80 percent of its money from the economically ailing state. Mr. Brown proposed paying for its $27 million cost this year out of a $31 million emergency fund earmarked for school supplies, special classes and academic projects. A state waiver would be needed to release the money.
 
Some Gains for Teachers
 In return for accepting the pay cut, the teachers won a number of long-sought concessions from the board on policy and administrative issues. These include increased decision-making powers at the schools, an audit of what the teachers say is inefficient and wasteful district management, and a new mechanism to resolve disputes.
The agreement guarantees that salaries will not be cut next year unless state funds are cut, and that any new district income will be used to raise teachers' pay. It also restricts the district's ability to enter into "me too" contracts with other unions that grant them parity with any gains won by the teachers, a practice Mr. Brown called "ludicrous."
Before the cuts, the American Federation of Teachers said salaries for veteran teachers in Los Angeles ranked 11th among those in major American cities, at $45,239 a year, and first for beginning teachers, at $29,529. These salaries reflect pay increases of 24 percent over three years, raises that teachers won in a 1989 strike.
By comparison, New York City, the nation's largest school district, pays its veteran teachers $49,343 and its beginning teachers $26,238.
With average class size in high schools now surpassing 40, the district's schools have erected portable classrooms in their play areas, staggered class times and instituted a system of year-round schools. At the same time, spending per student has fallen to $4,187 a year, compared with about $7,300 in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); TEACHER UNIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); STRIKES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); RIOTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); 

PERSON: WILLIE L BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



792 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Putting the Spin on the N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By Julian Bond; Julian Bond, a former member of the N.A.A.C.P. board of directors, teaches history and politics at the University of Virginia and American University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:

To: Journalists and Pundits
From: Media Central
Re: N.A.A.C.P.
This memo is prompted by the news that more than 75 people have applied to replace Benjamin Hooks as executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the speculation that Jesse Jackson is a leading candidate for the job. 
 Mr. Jackson's interest and the avalanche of applications mean we who control the media must try harder to reinforce the perception that the N.A.A.C.P. and the civil rights leadership are outmoded, old-fashioned, irrelevant and out of touch with black Americans.
Here are some story suggestions, which you are free to adapt to your needs. A reminder: sprinkle your copy with words like venerable, ancient, old and geriatric.
"Rap Stars, not N.A.A.C.P., Speak for Black Youth!" Your local university or community college probably has an N.A.A.C.P. youth chapter; ignore it and find a kid who will say that Ice-T, Sister Souljah or Kool Moe Dee speaks for him or her. Do not ask whom the student will call if he or she is the victim of discrimination.
"N.A.A.C.P. Out of Touch With Black America!" There are dozens of surveys that show blacks and the N.A.A.C.P. agree on most civil rights-related questions. Avoid these and dwell instead on abortion or the death penalty, issues where blacks are as divided as whites. Your Rolodex should have the names of a half dozen black Reagan-Bush conservatives. They're always good for a "family values" quotation or a verbal assault on the black leaders their sponsors hoped they'd replace.
"N.A.A.C.P. in Disarray Over . . . " Fill in "Jackson bid" or any other timely words or phrases; it doesn't matter. Remember when only 2 of the group's 2,200 branches and none of its board members supported Clarence Thomas? We were able to convince the public that the organization was split over the nomination, and we can do it again. Trot out those anonymous sources. Interview people who are members of rival groups.
"Only Black Middle Class Helped by N.A.A.C.P." Be careful here. The last time we went with this we were flooded with complaints from middle-class blacks; frankly, we thought they didn't face discrimination today. Ignore recent court rulings giving millions of dollars to blue-collar and low-skill blacks who have won civil rights suits.
Here's another angle. While the black middle class has grown, black unemployment is still twice as high as it is for whites, and blacks still earn less money than comparable whites. One of those right-wing think tanks will have someone -- white or black -- to argue that it is inappropriate for blacks to seek the type of Government assistance that subsidizes farmers.
"Civil Rights Equal Civil Wrongs." This chestnut has been around forever. Here are some arguments used against busing in Montgomery, Ala., in the 1950's that you can rework and use today: integration robs blacks of racial pride; Federal protection against racism makes blacks wards of the state; desegregation upsets race relations. Remember versions of these from the fight over the 1992 Civil Rights Act? If you look hard enough, you can even find blacks who will argue that affirmative action makes its beneficiaries feel bad! (Warning! Do not ask whether whites who receive preferential treatment feel bad.)
You've got the idea; if you get stuck, call our special toll-free number.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); CIVIL RIGHTS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PUBLIC OPINION CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); WRITERS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); FAMILY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BOND, JULIAN JESSE JACKSON (76%); CLARENCE THOMAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



793 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Steel Industry Doesn't Oppose Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Mickey Kantor's Historic Task" (editorial, Feb. 2), on the new United States Trade Representative, makes false and misleading statements about the American steel industry.
Assertions that we seek to pressure the Administration to erect trade walls or to block the pending Uruguay Round and North American Free Trade Agreement are simply not true. The steel industry supports the trade agreement, as well as a rapid conclusion to the Uruguay Round, provided the long-standing United States countervailing duty and antidumping laws are not gutted in any new multilateral agreement. 
 Also false is your claim that pending unfair trade cases against foreign steelmakers were filed as a response to President Clinton's "mixed messages" on trade. The subsidy and dumping complaints were filed last June, long before Mr. Clinton was nominated for President. These cases are being processed in accordance with United States law, and domestic producers are not seeking any special remedy or treatment from the new Administration beyond what is called for under the law. The industry indeed opposes renewal of steel-specific voluntary export restraints, as some have proposed.
Most unfair is your conclusion that steel producers are seeking from the political marketplace what they cannot win in the economic marketplace. The domestic steel industry has invested heavily in modernization and is now the high-quality, low-cost producer for the United States market. American steelmakers are prepared to compete fairly with any foreign supplier, but we are not prepared to allow heavily subsidized and dumped foreign steel to continue to undermine our home market, our investors and the jobs of our employees.
That's why the pending trade cases were filed, not because the new President is still formulating his trade policies. But it is worth noting that we believe the new Administration will recognize that unfair trade practices such as those employed by foreign steelmakers are precisely why our Government has enforced its trade laws for the last 70 years.
Yes, Mr. Kantor has a historic task, but it is unfair for you to paint such a misleading portrait of the steel industry's position toward the new Administration.
 
ROBERT J. DARNALL
Chairman, Inland Steel Industries
Chicago, Feb. 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: RYERSON HOLDING CORP (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: DARNALL, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



794 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Split Goal on Trade;
President's Speech Tries to Reconcile Open Markets With Help for Industry

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton's strong endorsement of free trade today is an attempt to reconcile the need for open international markets with his Administration's commitment to a more active Government role in helping industries at home.
While the Bush Administration pursued free trade as part of its general faith in markets, Clinton Administration officials have much more confidence in the ability of Government to intervene productively. In his speech today, President Clinton tried to blend his enthusiasm for free trade abroad with industrial policies at home, Administration officials said. 
 The speech came after weeks of debate in the Administration and other Democratic circles. The goal has been to strike a compromise that would allow the Commerce Department and other agencies to help American manufacturers -- through civilian technology development programs and other Federal spending -- without encouraging ailing American industries to seek Government protection from imports.
 
Similar to Bush Policy
 As Carla A. Hills, the former United States trade representative, pointed out to the Cable News Network immediately after the speech, the pure trade policy portion of the speech was similar to Bush Administration policy. President Clinton called for a prompt conclusion to the 112-nation free trade talks in Geneva and renewed his commitment to the North American Free Trade Agreement, which would lower trade barriers for Canada, Mexico and the United States.
Mickey Kantor, the current United States trade representative, described how the Clinton policy differed from the Bush Administration's trade policies: "It's an active versus a passive policy; it's tied to our economic program at home." He later added,"It's a program that makes sure manufacturing matters."
President Clinton criticized protectionists as well as those who oppose trade barriers "no matter what the consequences are in terms of job losses, trade dislocations or crushed incomes."
Both approaches are inadequate, he said. "Neither steps up to the task of empowering our workers to compete," he said.
To be sure, President Clinton also set up a straw man in his initial portrayal of two extreme trade policy positions that nobody in Congress or the Bush Administration has actually advocated. The Bush Administration also took a middle road similar to the Clinton Administration's positions now.
For all its free market rhetoric, the Bush Administration repeatedly threatened to restrict foreign access to American markets, whether to persuade China to protect American copyrights and patents or to persuade the European Community to reduce farm subsidies.
 
Free Traders Appointed
 President Clinton's speech was consistent with decisions by his Cabinet-level trade officials to appoint a series of free traders to sub-Cabinet positions, to the virtual exclusion of trade experts who have advocated more confrontational approaches to international trade, Congressional and executive branch officials said.
Mr. Kantor has chosen Rufus H. Yerxa, a Democrat who served as a deputy trade representative during the Bush Administration, to become the second-ranking official in his agency. Robert B. Reich, the head of the National Economic Council, has filled the council's top trade policy position with Robert Kyle, the Senate Finance Committee's trade counsel and supporter of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Mr. Kyle and Barry E. Carter, another supporter of the agreement and a Georgetown University professor now working temporarily as a special adviser to Mr. Kantor, were two of President Clinton's three top campaign advisers on the North American pact. The third adviser, Michael Wessel, is the general counsel for the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, and has been critical of the pact. Mr. Wessel was not offered any of the top senior trade policy positions in the Administration, although he turned down many offers for nontrade positions, and he remains on Capitol Hill.
The exception may be the Commerce Department, which has hired a Congressional advocate of more confrontational trade policies. Loretta Dunn, a former staff director of the Senate Commerce Committee and former aide to Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, is being considered for the job of Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Import Administration, trade experts said.
 
Subsidies Are Criticized
 President Clinton has surprised even some of his aides with his strong criticisms of subsidies for Airbus Industrie, a four-nation consortium that manufactures commercial aircraft. The Bush Administration also criticized foreign subsidies.
Mr. Kantor announced on Thursday that he had requested consultations with the European Community about these subsidies under an agreement last year that provided for such reviews. The United States is also continuing to seek a global agreement to reduce aircraft subsidies even more than the pact with Europe would achieve.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Saturday about the Clinton Administration's trade policies misidentified the chairman of the National Economic Council. He is Robert E. Rubin. The article also misstated the position held by Robert B. Reich. He is the Labor Secretary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PATENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); COPYRIGHT (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



795 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'s Aircraft-Engine Unit To Cut 3,900 Jobs This Year

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON

 BODY:
In response to order cutbacks from the financially ailing airline industry, the General Electric Company's aircraft-engine business announced yesterday that it would reduce its 33,000-member work force by 3,900 jobs, or 11 percent, this year.
About 2,500 jobs will be eliminated at G.E. Aircraft Engine's headquarters in Evendale, Ohio, an industrial area outside Cincinnati. About 700 jobs will be cut at the company's plant in Lynn, Mass., and 700 at smaller operations elsewhere. About 2,300 salaried workers and 1,600 hourly workers will be cut. 
 Stock of General Electric, based in Fairfield, Conn., slipped 37.5 cents yesterday, to $84.125, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The engine maker hopes to reduce its payroll through attrition and voluntary departures. Its carrot is a package of health-care and retraining benefits, even for those who have worked as little as three years.
Among the elements of the offer are one week's salary for each year of employment; up to $15,000 in tuition refunds for those going to school for retraining; free medical, dental and life-insurance coverage for one year for those with three years of service and bonuses of $7,500 for those over age 60 with 15 years of employment.
Paula Kollstedt, a company spokeswoman, declined to disclose the expected cost of the program, which comes in the wake of previous job losses because of military spending reductions.
The unit, which also makes engines for warplanes and helicopters, reached its peak in employment at 42,000 in 1989. Last year, its operating profits fell 8 percent as revenue declined 5 percent, to $7.37 billion. It is G.E.'s second-largest business after the GE Capital Corporation.
"G.E. is pretty good at sizing its business," said Martin Sankey, an analyst at First Boston. "It's not the panic reaction we're seeing out of Pratt & Whitney."
Last month, Pratt, the nation's No. 2 engine maker, said it would dismiss one-third of its Connecticut work force of 20,000 in the next two years. Its commercial customers -- the Boeing Company, Airbus Industrie and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation -- have had numerous cancellations of airline orders and requests for delays in deliveries.
Last week Boeing said it would cut 28,000 jobs by mid-1994, and late last month McDonnell Douglas announced plans to cut about 10,000 jobs.
"Our commercial customers have suffered unprecedented losses in the last three years, and engine and spare-part orders are down," Brian Rowe, president and chief executive of the G.E. unit, said in a statement. Engines typically represent 20 percent of an airliner's cost.
Charles A. Berry, an economics professor at the University of Cincinnati, predicted that Cincinnati's diverse manufacturing base should be able to absorb many of G.E.'s manufacturing workers but might not be able to absorb many white-collar G.E. employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GENERAL ELECTRIC AIRCRAFT ENGINE CORP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); BOEING CO (85%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PRATT & WHITNEY (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GENERAL ELECTRIC AIRCRAFT ENGINE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION LAYOFFS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (86%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HELICOPTERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TUITION FEES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); DENTAL INSURANCE (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1993



796 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4308 words

HEADLINE: How Jack Kemp Lost the War on Poverty

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The Times who covers social welfare policy.

 BODY:
On the afternoon of July 2, 1991, Jack Kemp received a surprise visit from the man he variously called "pencilneck" or "the Prince of Darkness": the White House budget director, Richard Darman.
It had been a year since Kemp was named chairman of the Economic Empowerment Task Force, a Cabinet subgroup formed to develop antipoverty policy. During that time, he and Darman had repeatedly clashed over the substance and tone of domestic policy, where little could happen without the budget director's approval. 
 To Darman, Kemp had long established himself as a windy orator who clung to his eccentric ideas with a fervor bordering on the religious. Inside the White House, Darman would ridicule Kemp's showcase program, HOPE (Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere), which was intended to sell public housing units to their tenants. Estimates of renovation and finance costs were reaching $100,000 per unit and Darman would, derisively though not implausibly, argue that it would be cheaper to buy poor people new condominiums.
To Kemp, Darman was the chief bureaucratic roadblock between himself and his vision of an activist conservatism that aligns itself with the poor. Like most Bush Administration officials, he respected Darman's superior understanding of policy. But also like many others, he complained that Darman believed in little beyond his own power. He would frequently say Darman used his position not to improve new ideas but to kill them.
Kemp was now seated at a conference table in the Old Executive Office Building, surrounded by assistant Cabinet secretaries from across the Government. He was midway through a lecture on the welfare system, saying how unconscionable it was that the Government takes away a dollar of welfare benefits for virtually every dollar a recipient earns. In some cases, Kemp pointed out, women who try to leave welfare for the world of work actually see their incomes fall.
Darman then appeared at the door. Declining Kemp's offer of a seat, the budget director absorbed a few minutes of the familiar oratory. As a top planner in the former Department of Health, Education and Welfare, he probably knew more about welfare than any of the dozens of officials in the room. And he was not one to disguise it.
Work disincentives were a concern, he agreed. But Darman pounced when Kemp suggested that welfare recipients should be allowed to keep 85 cents of every new dollar they earn without having their benefits reduced. Doing some quick arithmetic in his head, Darman concluded that such an approach would allow people to collect welfare when they were earning as much as $70,000 a year.
Darman also noted that the group had talked of cutting off welfare benefits after two years. What, Darman asked, then happens to the family's children? Do they simply starve? The budget director talked on for 15 or 20 minutes, before ending his lecture with a curt suggestion. There is a large technical literature on welfare, he said. Perhaps, before your next meeting, you should read it.
FOR KEMP AND A SMALL GROUP of loyalists, the skirmish was one in a line of setbacks that ultimately destroyed their hopes for a conservative War on Poverty. From the earliest moments of the Bush Administration, Kemp had urged the White House to spend more money, create more programs and lend the fight more Presidential commitment.
But he did so with an odd set of outsized talents and peculiarities. Kemp brought unusual devotion and eloquence to his crusade. But he also brought a grab bag of marginal ideas and a personal style that alienated some of the allies he most needed. Chief among them was George Bush.
Kemp's efforts drew him into constant clashes with Darman, who frequently derided his ideas as costly and unlikely to achieve their goals. Darman, the superior bureaucrat, almost always won.
The story of their fight -- pieced together through hundreds of pages of internal Government documents and interviews with scores of officials -- offers an unusually candid view of the policy-making process.
In Kemp's telling, the narrative is reduced to a demonic tale of the man ac tivist conservatives have come to hate.
"Darman not only cost those of us who believe in the War on Poverty; I believe that in no small way he is responsible for the President losing the election," the 57-year-old Kemp said in one of several interviews during his last weeks in office.
He said Darman "dropped poison" on new ideas to maintain his power and brought "a really sick attitude" to the poverty debate. "He didn't care about poverty; he cared about what the budget looked like," Kemp said. "There's not a single inner city of the United States who even knows who Dick Darman is, other than the Prince of Darkness who opposed everything I tried to do." (Darman has declined to comment on any of Kemp's assertions.)
But if Darman was one of Kemp's enemies, Kemp himself was another. To his credit, he may have brought more zeal to America's poverty problems than any national politician since Robert Kennedy. Kemp may be the only official to have won standing ovations in black ghettos by calling for a capital gains tax cut.
And yet Kemp sold his solutions with a recklessness that ignored their limitations, exhibiting a fervor that reminded one ally of an adolescent who had just read "The Fountainhead." In advocating tenant management, for instance, Kemp would constantly cite the achievements of a St. Louis housing development called Cochran Gardens, where tenants had succeeded in reducing crime and vandalism. What Kemp declined to say, however, was that the celebrated development had done virtually nothing to reduce poverty: average household income remained stuck at less than $5,000 a year.
Kemp did his cause further damage with a personal manner that alienated many of his Cabinet colleagues. Always impatient, he would flop in his Cabinet seat like a beached fish, sink his head into his hands, roll his eyes and scribble exasperated notes. Talking once about how he planned to seek better relations with Senator Barbara Mikulski, head of his appropriations subcommittee, Kemp leaned back and stuck a finger down his throat, as if gagging on the very thought. "I mean my body language is worse than anybody else's, you know," Kemp said. "I can't hide my feelings." Speaking of his bureaucratic enemies, Kemp said: "They're wee-weeing on me."
Beyond their unusual egos and flaws, both Kemp and Darman brought formidable talents to the table, Kemp as a public spokesman and Darman as a deal maker and analyst. But missing almost entirely from the equation was the interest of the President. In four years George Bush never paid more than casual attention to the bitter disputes that simmered beneath him, or to their impact on the lives of America's 36 million poor people.
Bush made a rare but revealing appearance in the story on Feb. 27, 1991, after Kemp finally persuaded him to give a speech advocating many of his ideas. Rebuffing Kemp's pleas to deliver the address to an audience of poor people, Bush gave it instead to a group of well-paid lobbyists in a Washington hotel ballroom. The lobbyists responded with stony silence.
Bush never really stopped complaining about the speech, aides say. In subsequent months, he had a running joke with his speech-writing staff, warning them against another antipoverty speech. When James Pinkerton, a campaign aide, visited the President in the Oval Office more than a year later, the wound was still fresh. "Boy," Pinkerton recalls the President saying. "I never want to do that again."
THE WAR OVER THE WAR on Poverty was under way from the time that Bush invited Kemp to discuss taking the job of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Kemp, a Bush rival in the 1988 Presidential primaries, had long held what most Republicans regarded as an eccentric interest in poverty. Meeting now with Bush and his inner circle, Kemp told them he wanted to "wage war on poverty."
Bush recoiled at the term, saying it conjured up the Great Society and Big Government. Kemp recalls arguing back that he had something different in mind, an activist agenda driven by markets, not bureaucracies. He said he wanted tenant ownership of public housing, "enterprise zones" that lured businesses to distressed areas through tax cuts and unspecified "radical welfare reform" that wouldn't punish the poor when they got a job.
The President had one caveat. "He didn't want me to call it a 'War on Poverty,' " Kemp said. Still, Kemp talked continually of the need to "wage war on poverty" from the moment he stood beside Bush to accept the Cabinet appointment.
Kemp suffered his first bureaucratic rout on June 23, 1989, when he visited the office of John Sununu, the White House chief of staff. He arrived with an inch-thick folder outlining his proposals -- not just enterprise zones but expanded subsidies for low-income renters, social services for the homeless and elderly, and tax changes to help first-time home buyers. His signature program was HOPE, the plan to sell public housing to tenants. Kemp wanted $1 billion for the program's first year.
There was reason to be skeptical. Enterprise zones had been tried on a state level, with only modest impact. Kemp argued that adding Federal tax breaks would give businesses a greater incentive to move to blighted areas, but there was little proof. Tenant ownership was an untested idea that threatened to consume Federal money without creating cheap housing.
Darman arrived at the meeting with what proved to be a more persuasive handout, a single page tallying up the costs of all Kemp wanted to do. According to Thomas Humbert, a Kemp aide who was there, Darman's estimates came in three to five times higher than Kemp's. "It just blew apart Kemp's ideas, before they ever got started," Humbert says.
When Sununu suggested there might be no money for HOPE at all, Kemp leaped from his seat, resorting to what would become a familiar tactic: threatening to resign. "Sununu got up and said: 'Jack you're getting overheated. Sit down,' " Humbert recalls. Kemp left the meeting with a $250 million pledge for HOPE and a painful message to scale back his ambitions.
Kemp argues that Darman and his aides brought a "penny wise, pound foolish" attitude to programs for the poor. By refusing to invest more in poverty prevention, he says, the "budgetmeisters" courted more expenses later -- in welfare, crime and misery.
But Kemp's detractors also have a point when they say his constant desire to raise spending while cutting taxes showed a dangerous irresponsibility toward the Federal deficit problem. "The death question was always, 'How are you going to pay for it?' " said one Administration official. "And these people had no clue."
FOR MUCH OF HIS first year, Kemp was consumed with the influence-peddling and mismanagement scandals he inherited at H.U.D. In the meantime, the White House had reconstituted an obscure planning group known as the Low Income Opportunity Board, which brought several antipoverty proposals to the Cabinet. More than once, Cabinet members told the planners they were enthusiastic about fighting poverty. But each time the planners suggested a specific program, the Cabinet found the cost too high, the politics wrong or the promise of success too thin.
In November 1989, when the planners suggested a series of "opportunity zones" that would allow local governments to experiment with antipoverty money, Kemp and Darman both instructed them to come back with something more ambitious. "And whatever you do, don't call it opportunity zones," Darman said, according to notes taken at the meeting. Two steps ahead as usual, Darman had spotted the acronym and the public relations disaster of consigning the poor to a Land of OZ.
The following spring, the process was still stalled. In May, Clayton Yeutter, the Agriculture Secretary, weighed in with a letter that in retrospect appears to have captured perfectly the Administration's antipoverty philosophy. "The Federal deficit is already much too large!" he wrote in a four-page letter to White House planners. Then Yeutter came down on the side of what might be called daring inaction. Fighting poverty "calls for boldness and leadership," he said. "But it also calls for prudence and circumspection." Notably eager for prudence himself, Bush may have recognized a soulmate; he later named Yeutter White House domestic policy czar.
When the Cabinet decided in late June simply to recommend more studies, Kemp exploded. "Meanwhile, what's going on in our neighborhoods and on the streets?" he wrote in a July 12 letter to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh.
Kemp had just the solution to the stalled antipoverty plans. "Perhaps a Cabinet secretary ought to head the effort," he wrote.
The idea of putting Jack Kemp in charge of the Government's antipoverty planning did not sit well with his Cabinet colleagues. He was already acting as if he had his own monetary and foreign policy, only half-joking in March when he held a private ceremony at H.U.D. recognizing the new Government of Lithuania, 18 months before the State Department did.
Darman joined the majority of Cabinet officers who voted against the idea. But Kemp's cause was then resuscitated by an unlikely ally, John Sununu. A White House domestic policy aide, John Schall, recalls Thornburgh asking Sununu to "give Jack the ball and see if he can run with it" in a spirit that was half acquiescent and half calling Kemp's bluff. Sununu went along, Schall said, and weighed in with Bush, who approved a memo on Aug. 6, 1990, putting Kemp in charge.
Expectations were low, however. The White House waited a month and then released a memo, quietly acknowledging the new Economic Empowerment Task Force, with Kemp as its head.
FROM THE START, Kemp's fledgling cause was overshadowed by the two major developments of 1990: the budget deal and the buildup to the Persian Gulf war. On June 26, Bush had sent conservatism into a tailspin by saying he might approve "tax revenue increases" to cut the deficit -- in effect renouncing his famous campaign pledge.
Kemp had built his political reputation as a tax cutter, and he spent months fighting the deal, to which Darman and Sununu were attaching their professional reputations. While making no headway with Darman or Bush, Kemp was emerging as a hero to a clique of young White House conservatives who shared Kemp's dislike of the budget director and his deal. Chief among them was James Pinkerton, a protege of Lee Atwater. In Bush's slash-and-burn 1988 campaign, it was Pinkerton who had unearthed Willie Horton.
In the winter of 1990, Pinkerton began a series of speeches advocating what he called a "new paradigm" for Government action that emphasized market forces over bureaucracies. Like Kemp, Pinkerton often talked of using the approach to "empower" the poor.
Debating the meaning of "empowerment" was one of the more consuming activities of the Bush domestic planners. When pressed, Kemp and Pinkerton would fall back on a familiar roll call of policies: enterprise zones; vouchers that let parents choose their children's schools; tax credits for the poor; and the HOPE program. They had a hard time coming up with other examples, but championing the phrase was a way of sounding activist and conservative at once.
Darman derided the phrase, which had originated with 60's radicals, saying it had changed definition so often it had become meaningless. And though Kemp was talking about empowering the poor, Darman could argue he himself was actually doing it, but without the rhetoric. After all, the reviled budget deal happened to contain $18 billion in new tax credits for low-income families. The appropriations for Kemp's HOPE program were minuscule by comparision, peaking at $256 million a year.
Angered at Pinkerton's attacks on the budget deal, Darman struck back with a Nov. 16 speech on what he called "Neo-Neo-Ism." In it, he attacked the "incipient faddism" of those unnamed Washingtonians bandying about terms like "empowerment" and "new paradigm."
"Hey brother, can you paradigm?" Darman mocked.
Washington exploded into an intra-conservative brawl. Conservative congressmen like Newt Gingrich and Vin Weber rallied to Pinkerton's defense, and Kemp retaliated with talk of what he called "Social Darmanism." The war on poverty was becoming the battle of the sound bite.
KEMP TOOK CHARGE OF his task force with characteristic bluster and zeal. When a group of young White House aides visitedhis office early on, they found him ranting that this was a fight for the "soul of America."
Then suddenly Kemp fixated on the attire of Richard Porter, a 30-year-old lawyer in the empowerment camp. "Purple suspenders!" Kemp exclaimed. How did Porter expect to have any credibility with poor people if he dressed like that? Porter smiled nervously, but Kemp wouldn't let it go, carrying on about proper antipoverty dress. "You have to go through an initiation ceremony with Kemp," recalls Porter, who has remained an important ally. "You had to prove you were on his side."
Suspenderless, Kemp and his helpers began to beat the bushes of the Federal bureaucracy, looking for what they called "ambitious, far-reaching ideas" to empower the poor. What they got back was mostly oatmeal. The Education Department touted an "800" number. The planners themselves suggested changing the name of the Small Business Administration to the "Agency for Entrepreneurship."
Exasperated, Kemp convened a Nov. 15 meeting with emissaries from each of the domestic agencies. "If you don't come up with good ideas your department can implement, I will think them up for you," he said, according to meeting notes.
When the Cabinet reconvened on Nov. 28, Kemp brought 13 proposals, mostly familiar. He also tacked on a suggestion to raise the personal tax exemption to $6,000, the equivalent of a $50 billion tax cut. It had about as much chance of passing as a White House salute to Saddam.
It was nearly two weeks after the "neo-neo" speech, and Kemp's cover letter was filled with barbs at Darman. "Solving poverty does not mean green eyeshade thinking about 'resource allocation' and 'better administration,' " Kemp wrote.
While Kemp's allies awaited fireworks, Darman delivered this surprising pronouncement: "I have already decided to put some of these items in the FY92 budget."
Among the messages communicated by these words, of course, was the central fact of the Bush Administration's domestic policy: Darman's own power. I have already decided. . . . Darman ditched the $50 billion tax cut, but included in the budget a special section calling for enterprise zones, the HOPE program and other Kemp causes.
The concession was small -- most of the items already had the Administration's backing -- and Darman may also have been beating a strategic retreat, hoping to stem the conservative anger toward him over the budget deal. Darman offered one other concession by including Kemp's favorite word in the budget, adding a section that said "the goal is to empower low-income individuals." Now Darman and his aides could say they had given Kemp what he wanted, and ask, in feigned or real exasperation: what more does the guy want?
The answer was Presidential backing. Kemp began to push for a meeting with Bush. White House aides say Darman helped forestall it, calling it a waste of a busy President's time. The power struggle then shifted back to the word "empowerment," which again became a proxy for the entire dispute over domestic policy.
Porter recalls Darman calling him from a car phone early that winter. "He says, 'Richard, let me do you a favor -- don't use the word empowerment in any memo you send,' " Porter says. "He said, 'You people don't understand the connotations of the word from the 60's.' Of course we did. I was going to say that's what's fun about it -- stealing one of the Left's words. But I didn't get that far. I just got a couple of words out. He said, 'Look, don't do it.' So I didn't."
Kemp's reaction, after he was told about the phone call, crossed the usual boundaries of Washington disputes. "I mean he's not a sick man," Kemp said of Darman, "but I mean, that's a sick thought."
THE LINGUISTIC BAN took hold, and Kemp's cause was dying. Bush's February antipoverty speech to the lobbyists flopped. A week later, he went before a joint session of Congress to describe what he called the postwar "mission here at home." He talked about crime and transportation.
Shortly thereafter, Anna Kondratas, Kemp's chief aide on poverty policy, went before Congress to testify on the work of the empowerment task force. She wrote Kemp a memo in May complaining that the budget office had cut her testimony in half and barred her from speaking about agencies other than Housing. "I was embarrassed to be so unspecific," she wrote.
That month Kemp did get Bush to visit Cochran Gardens, the St. Louis public housing development run by its tenants. But the Presidential tour did nothing to bolster Kemp's bureaucratic position. During the June battles over a Congressional appropriations bill, Kemp was left to fight for his HOPE program on his own. He won a slight increase, only after standing in a Capitol hallway and accosting his former House colleagues as they filed in to vote.
When Kemp arrived at a June 20 Cabinet meeting with the President, White House aides stopped him from distributing a printed report from the task force. Cabinet rules required prior clearance. Notes from the meeting show that when Kemp launched into a stemwinder, Sununu warned him to "keep the speech making to the campaign trail."
The meeting disintegrated into a technical discussion of welfare experiments. As its end drew near, Bush, who had been chewing absent-mindly on the stems of his glasses, left to take an overseas phone call. He did not return.
In January, Bush named Yeutter to the top White House domestic policy job. On April 3, the White House abolished the Economic Empowerment Task Force.
A FEW WEEKS LATER, the Los Angeles riots gave Jack Kemp a last hurrah. At a meeting the day after the riots, Darman warned that Kemp, left unmonitored, would use the occasion to upstage Bush. The President's other advisers shared the worry, but also recognized that Kemp was the only political asset they had. "We were happy that, whatever he'd done in the past, we had him around," one aide said.
Kemp peppered the White House with memos and suggestions. But he did not actually speak to Bush until the Cabinet convened the following week. Kemp arrived distributing copies of an urban policy brochure he had written months earlier. "I'm sitting kind of to the left for the photo op," Kemp recalled, "the only time I was near the President for four years."
As Kemp recalls it, the meeting was filled with high drama, though others say the emotion was mostly his own. In the middle of a patented Kemp discourse, another Cabinet official, unnamed by Kemp, "just literally slammed his fist down," and shouted, "What's our policy? We don't have a policy."
Kemp remembers flinging his brochure across the Cabinet table. The official, said by others to be Nicholas Brady, the Treasury Secretary, flung it back, as if to say, "Here's what I think of you and your brochures, loudmouth."
"I said, 'Mr. President, now you know what the problem is in our Administration,' " Kemp recalls. "Your senior Cabinet leaders, officials, don't even understand what it is that you and I want to do."
When Kemp joined the White House entourage in Los Angeles a few days later, his passions and peculiarities were on full display. White House aides watched in wonder as a group of black Democratic mayors, awaiting a meeting with the President, swarmed around Kemp. "Jack Kemp is a beacon of light," one of them, Mayor Edward Vincent of Inglewood, said recently.
But Kemp had a talent for courting Presidential disapproval. When the entourage arrived at a Los Angeles boys club the next day, Kemp acknowledged the applause by taking off his coat, then stood at the President's side and stole the crowd's attention with several exaggerated shoulder rolls. The pantomimed gesture seemed to say to Bush: Take off your coat. Be more like me.
"It was a little bit of a goofy thing to do," says a Kemp ally who was there.
When Kemp arrived at a reporters' breakfast a week later, the future of an urban aid bill was already in doubt; Republicans fretted that it rewarded rioters and Democrats deemed it paltry.
Kemp was at his oratorical best. When a reporter asked where Kemp's passions came from, Kemp recalled the dozen years he spent as a professional quarterback and the lessons of racial equality he had picked up in locker rooms filled with black athletes.
"This is my way of redeeming my existence on this earth," Kemp said. "I wasn't there with Rosa Parks or Dr. King or John Lewis, but I am here now and I am going to yell from the rooftops about what we need to do."
Kemp said that during the civil rights movement the Republican Party had "missed the opportunity" to oppose racism. "And frankly," Kemp warned, "to miss this opportunity is to lose what history rarely grants -- a second chance."
The White House, with Darman's help, worked hard to pass an aid bill in the House that would bring about, at long last, Kemp's cherished enterprise zones. But the effort soon fell apart in the Senate, which turned the bill into a more ambitious vehicle for higher taxes and more spending. On the day after losing the election, Bush vetoed the bill.
After four years of Kemp's crusade, Government figures offer this gauge of its accomplishments: 3.5 million more Americans now live in poverty than when the effort began.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; DEPARLE, JASON; BUSH, GEORGE RICHARD GORDON 'RICHARD G' DARMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1993



797 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3865 words

HEADLINE: THE ART WORLD BUST

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon; Deborah Solomon, a frequent contributor to this magazine, is completing a biography of the artist Joseph Cornell.

 BODY:
The biggest news in the New York art world right now has nothing to do with a new style or movement, with neo-this or post-that. Rather, it has to do with money and the phenomenon of being nouveau poor. It's impossible to have a bacchanal like the 80's without paying for it later, and artists still are. As the art stars of the past decade fret about having to lower the prices of their work, innumerable young and not-so-young artists are leaving their studios to teach or illustrate or drive cabs while scrambling for diminishing exhibition space.
Hard times can alter the look of art. Witness the trend that might be called "Honey I Shrunk the Art," as artists reduce the size of their creations and their prices in an attempt to accommodate wary collectors. Frank Stella, who in a recent show at Knoedler & Company exhibited a group of small coffee-table sculptures instead of his usual elephan tine wall pieces, might seem to be an obvious example of instant weight loss. At the other extreme, the depressed market has encouraged art to take a sharp turn toward the left. As if atoning for the smug commercialism of so much 80's art, the prevailing fashion among younger artists is "martyr art" -- art that shrieks about every last inequity. 
 In some ways, it's easy to applaud the downturn in the art market. Many people were disappointed by the developments of the 80's, that manic decade when junk-bond dollars and Japanese yen flooded the art scene and the galleries were glutted with teeny talents. The astronomical prices at the auction houses made the art world seem like a branch of the New York Stock Exchange. It seems fitting that a recent phone call to Julian Schnabel, art's leading man of the 80's, was returned that afternoon by one of his assistants, who told me: "Julian says he doesn't have the mind space to think about your questions. He's busy with renovations." No wonder the best-known visual creation of the last decade isn't any one piece of art, but rather the media-imposed portrait of the artist as a prince lolling in his palatial loft.
The princes themselves, of course, wouldn't agree. "I don't buy into the myth that great art comes from starving artists," says Eric Fischl, whose reputation rests on paintings of cheerless suburbanites. "Poverty merely turns the artist into a freak and further marginalizes him." Disappointed by the reaction to his recent show at the Mary Boone Gallery, he adds on a businesslike note: "This is the first time since '82 that I've had a show that didn't sell out before it opened. It's scary. It's scary when you see your market value decline."
Not for Elizabeth Murray. Her tilting, eccentrically shaped canvases were celebrated in the 80's for reinvigorating abstract painting, and she remains unfazed by the shifting fortunes that netted her few sales at her last show at the Paula Cooper Gallery. "I don't see that as negative," Murray says. "I see it as positive. Artists have made enough money. It's nice to get the investors out of the picture."
If nothing else, the 80's proved that no amount of money can create a golden age. The decade that spawned a generation of millionaire bohemians seemed to produce little more than a succession of art bites -- novelty images that quickly wore thin and are epitomized perhaps by Jeff Koons's stainless-steel bunnies. Few would claim that the decade gave us a single major artist, someone in the league of Jackson Pollock or even Jasper Johns; the art of the age was not art for the ages, but rather for the whims of investors. It is tempting to think that the 90's will benefit those artists who want nothing better than to stop the talk of market values and concentrate instead on esthetic value; but this may be only wishful thinking.
IT IS STILL TOO SOON TO SAY whether the new economic adversity will bring art of renewed vitality. The early signs have not been wholly encouraging. Right now, for one thing, we're stuck with a situation in which the market-driven art of the 80's has been replaced by politics-driven art. The tradition of painting has fallen into disrepute as the privileged creation of that white-men-only club known as art history, and it is possible to spend an entire day touring the SoHo galleries without seeing a single painting. Instead, the current vogue is for "installations," as they're dryly called. A visitor to a gallery or museum might end up standing in front of pages torn from porn magazines, rearranged cases of beer or video screens flickering with images of the homeless, experiences that resemble nothing so much as an all-day ride on the IRT.
In other words: Let the viewer beware. The 1993 Biennial Exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art -- the country's pre-eminent survey of contemporary art, which opens this Thursday -- will include only 8 artists out of a total of 82 who are represented by paintings. Asked about this bewildering ratio, Elisabeth Sussman, the head curator of the show, recently explained: "The drop-dead paintings I can live without. I kind of wanted people who were expressing something about the community." Among her selections are Spike Lee, whose entry will consist of an MTV-style video, based on a Prince song, called "Money Don't Matter." Another exhibitor is George Holliday, who is not an artist by any definition. Rather, he is the bystander who happened to record the much-televised footage of Rodney King's beating; it will run continuously at the Whitney. It's as if television has replaced art school as the breeding ground for new talent.
However removed Rodney King may be from the realm of esthetics, what's incontestable is that his victim status speaks directly to the debased spirit of the 90's art world. Martyrdom -- be it political or personal -- has found the fast track. No young artist to emerge in the 90's has been more trumpeted than Kiki Smith, who specializes in lifesize sculptures of battered figures. A recent untitled work depicts an unclothed woman down on all fours, her intestines trailing behind her. If the piece evokes the wounded saints who populate Biblical stories, it also suggests the considerably more recent phenomenon of art-as-group-therapy. As if taking their cue from Oprah Winfrey and the national cult of confession, Smith's sculptures seem to say, "I'm not O.K., you're not O.K."
An art of physical distress may be inevitable at a time when the closing of galleries pales into insignificance beside the art world losses claimed by AIDS. Damien Hirst, a young star of the British scene, this year lined a Manhattan gallery from floor to ceiling with pharmacy cabinets filled with medications for every illness under the sun. The installation, at the Michael Cohen gallery, turned each viewer into an imaginary patient, his life options suddenly narrowed to choosing between this pill or that.
If the current art scene has an apostle, perhaps it is Frida Kahlo, the Mexican artist who died in 1954, only to emerge a few years ago as a posthumous art star. Each of Kahlo's many self-portraits, which glare at viewers from wall calendars and museum catalogues, offers the same overintimate view of her granite features and single, run-together eyebrow. Kahlo was married to the muralist Diego Rivera, and her work is a chronicle of her disappointments, marital and otherwise. Her current popularity (Madonna wants to make a movie based on her life) is yet another example of the triumph of talk-show culture, where every private grievance is deemed worthy of a public airing.
There is nothing inherently limiting about art that fixes on racism or sexism or social strife, as anyone knows who is familiar with Goya's dark, audacious commentaries on the ills of 18th-century Spain. But too much of today's political art is utterly artless, and the museums that hype it don't even care. The situation has been discouraging for the minority of artists who seek to revise the great traditions of the past, to breathe new life into old forms.
There have been some signs, however, of a return to more traditional cultural values. Hard times tend to encourage caution, and caution may be exactly what is needed after a decade in which the frenetic proliferation of new styles was often a cover for a dearth of invention and inspiration. "Safe art" is not necessarily boring art. Probably the most acclaimed gallery show of the fall season was an exhibition at the Gagosian Gallery of self-portraits by the early 20th-century German master Max Beckmann. It was good to see real art again, even if finding Beckmann's work inside Gagosian's hip picture palace was a bit like finding the poems of Goethe in People magazine.
The curators at the Whitney may be indifferent to painting, but an art devoted to the clarification of forms is slowly making its way elsewhere. It was startling to hear over the grapevine not long ago that two relatively tradition-bound painters -- Sean Scully and Bill Jensen -- would be joining the tony Mary Boone Gallery. Scully is known for handsome paintings that practically reinvent the stripe. Bill Jensen is also an abstract painter, an immensely gifted artist who sends organic forms rising and falling in and out of wells of pigment, as if oil paint itself were some murky, growing thing. His work comes out of the visionary spirit of early American abstraction, and his move to the Boone gallery might seem to suggest that art dealers now know what Ralph Lauren has understood for years: tradition can be its own hot trend.
WHAT IS THIS ENTITY known as the contemporary art world, anyway? To the general public, the term may evoke images of ticket holders standing in snaking lines to get a glimpse of the magic of Picasso or Matisse. Yet mega-events are only part of the story. It is away from the throngs and blockbuster retrospectives, in the calmer quarters of New York's galleries, that the variegated visions of the present appear, there to pass muster or not. The galleries are the medium through which a new work of art -- be it masterpiece or dud -- first enters the public record.
While it is often noted that the contemporary art scene is no longer a small, insular community, the galleries make it possible for artists to know what their colleagues are up to. On Saturday afternoons, when the sidewalks of SoHo and 57th Street bristle with gallery-goers who often pause to swap their picks and pans, the Manhattan art world can seem small indeed. Viewers routinely sign their names in the guest books left on the front desk of most galleries -- and discreetly scan the other names to see who else has been around.
To gauge the effects of the recession on the art world -- the emotional effects, anyway -- is to ask how many artists have been exiled from galleries. Judy Pfaff is among them. "I haven't sold a sculpture in a long time," she recently told me. A gregarious, fair-haired woman of 46, Pfaff was sitting in her studio, bundled in a red-check wool jacket. "I can walk into the Odeon or Barocco or the other places that artists go and speed-read my place in the art world. If you're not hot, there's a lull when you pass through the door."
Pfaff is known for assembling urban detritus like hoops, bottles and wire mesh into rowdy, often eloquent sculptures. Her achievement has been to make abstract sculptures that have some of the topsy-turvy variety of a walk through the city. She has never been a household name, but is well regarded by critics and peers, and has long enjoyed the sort of career that might seem to be recession-proof. She exhibited at the Holly Solomon Gallery throughout the 80's and received a stipend that eventually rose to $7,000 a month. Then, two years ago, she was abruptly dropped from the gallery roster. She has since joined another gallery and has taken part-time teaching jobs at Columbia and the University of Hartford. "I'm Miss Roadie," Pfaff notes self-mockingly. "I'm just on the road traveling to and from schools. I'm doing good work now, but there's no time to make it. My work is my secret."
Pfaff's studio is in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, an area that has been proclaimed the locus of the "new bohemia." On a recent winter afternoon, however, it looked as anonymous as any downcast urban neighborhood. A man on a corner started a fire in a garbage can to stay warm; two passers-by seemed not to notice as they headed into a bodega. Artists rent lofts here to escape the high rents of Manhattan, and a streetwise loyalty prevails among them. Pfaff insisted it was impossible to fully understand how the recession can derail a career without meeting her friend and neighbor James O. Clark, a 44-year-old sculptor who, like herself, specializes in assemblages of found objects; she took me to see him.
Clark lives with his wife and young daughter in a century-old red-brick edifice built by Quakers. A diffident man with a heavy gray beard, he once -- not so long ago -- had a flourishing career. During the 80's, he exhibited at Max Protech, an estimable gallery in SoHo, and could count among his honors a Guggenheim grant, a teaching stint at the Skowhegan art colony in Maine and a flurry of appreciative reviews. "You're rich if you can stay in your studio all day and work," he says wistfully, remembering the years when such fortune was his.
These days, however, Clark works full time as a plumber and electrician, a course that became all but unavoidable when no works sold at his last show, in 1991. He has not been offered another exhibition since. "The roughest of the roughest is being hired by other artists," he says without bitterness, explaining that his web of art world connections has yielded little besides contracting jobs; he once tiled the bathroom of the sculptor Joel Shapiro.
It has been two years since the art market bottomed out, and about 70 out of some 500 galleries have closed in New York. The ones to survive are generally mounting fewer exhibitions, leaving them up beyond the traditional three-week run. For young artists, the competition is fierce. How many will beat the odds and end up at a respectable gallery? One day I stopped into the Matthew Marks Gallery, a relative newcomer to the Madison Avenue scene. In a back office, a desk was heaped with what is known in the literary trade as "a slush pile" -- unsolicited manila envelopes, each bearing not typed pages from a wishful author, but rather a resume and a packet of color slides depicting perhaps a dozen different works. Asked whether he had ever opened an envelope and thereby discovered a new artist for his gallery, Marks, a dapper young man in LeCorbusier glasses, bluntly replied: "Never."
Despite dwindling opportunities, many artists report that the 90's art world is a kinder, gentler place where basic virtues -- remember friendship? -- seem newly possible. The departure of big-time collectors has freed artists from the demeaning plight of struggling like so many rivalrous siblings for the attention of a patron. "Camaraderie was at an all-time low in the 80's," says the painter David Deutsch. "Your artist friends would ignore you if they were invited to a famous collector's home and you weren't." Deutsch, who won a loyal following in the 80's for his innovative curved landscapes, exhibited at the Blum Helman Gallery until 1989, and seems patiently resigned to his current gallery-less status. "Any good artist," he says, "has to view himself in the larger picture."
In the meantime, artists who lack a gallery have acquired a new respectability, partly because so many artists are unrepresented and partly because the galleries themselves seem somehow emasculated without the patronage of the Reagan rich, whose money turned every dealer into a potential potentate only a few years back. It's revealing that the Art Now Gallery Guide -- a monthly listing of exhibitions that can be espied in every gallery-goer's coat pocket -- has just started a new section devoted to "artists unaffiliated with galleries."
It's revealing, too, that many artists are holding exhibitions right in their studios, without the benefit of an anointed dealer. One typically casual operation is Four Walls, which mounts shows for one day only in a Brooklyn studio; it's run by Mike Ballou, an artist who supports himself as a building contractor. "Things are more mature now than they were in the 80's," he says, "a decade that reminded me of junior high school in its lack of generosity and curiosity."
Success stories in art have always been a rarity, but now they've acquired the patina of a fairy tale. One painter who is beating the odds is Louise Fishman. She's known for black-on-black abstract paintings that stand out in a period largely indifferent to the brush. Like a number of artists, Fishman is looking for ways to give abstraction new meaning; she provoked a bit of controversy in the late 80's when she retrieved some ashes from a Holocaust site and mixed them into her paint, as if trying to say that art can redeem an artist's private world and the world of historical nightmares.
Fishman divides her time between a house upstate and a studio apartment in the West Village, where we met one recent evening. The place was furnished with two battered wooden chairs and little else; the artist was dressed in a navy sweatshirt and jeans, and looked younger than her 54 years. Has the recession affected her? She laughed at the question, painfully, it seemed, then went on to recount the desolate moment in 1991 when a show of her work found no buyers. She removed her paintings from the gallery and never returned. She has lived off her meager savings since. Yet the vicissitudes of the contemporary art world make it possible for an artist to go from having nothing to having everything on the basis of a single phone call, as Fishman recently learned. She has just been asked to join Robert Miller, a leading gallery on 57th Street, and is scheduled to have a show in the fall.
Still, her expectations are relatively modest. If we lived in a world in which artists earned fixed annual salaries, I asked her, what should that salary be? "About $35,000 a year," she replied. "I don't think artists should starve. But I think they should struggle."
And struggle they surely will. The atmosphere of the city has been dramatically altered by the real-estate market, which has elevated the cost of living beyond what most artists can easily bear. With lofts in SoHo typically renting for $3,000 a month, perhaps it's not surprising that so many are now occupied by lawyers, accountants and other professionals who poach on the prestige of the art scene while contributing virtually nothing to its welfare. Is it possible to live a bohemian life in New York? The survival of artists in the city has been jeopardized beyond measure by an economic situation that is reflected as much in the inflated rents as in the price of a cup of coffee at the Whitney Museum, whose restaurant has a lunch-time minimum table charge of $10 per person on weekdays and is positively inhospitable to the impecunious.
Still, it would be naive to pretend that New York was ever a cheap place to live, or that the problem for today's artists is strictly one of dollars and cents. (Jackson Pollock, back in the 40's, wondered how he would survive when the rent on his fifth-floor walk-up on Eighth Street rose to $50 a month.) The problem for today's artists is not that rents are high. That has always been the case. What's different is that the 80's art boom glamorized the profession of art and conferred upon the moneyed life a new prestige. Picturesque squalor is no longer possible. Expectations of worldly success rose in the 80's, and those expectations remain in place even though the market that created them no longer exists.
It may seem odd to dwell on the problems of artists at a time when society as a whole feels strapped. Some may argue that the artist who can't sell his creations is no different from the clothier stuck with an inventory of unwanted suits, or a blue-collar worker who has been laid off. Yet there is reason to believe that the art scene has been more damaged than other scenes because it benefited more from the 80's boom. A work of art is vulnerable to the whims of financial speculation, and as prices rose in the past decade to the point where a portrait of van Gogh's doctor could go for $82.5 million, artists were flush with a sense of inflated expectations. Many came to look upon art less as a realm of risk and hardship than as one in which worldly rewards were all but guaranteed.
And still, the greatest damage rendered by the recession goes beyond finances. At the height of the 80's boom, the money that was thrown at art had the paradoxical effect of devaluing it morally: art became a vehicle for quick profit, nothing more, nothing less. But it wasn't until the market bottomed out and collectors suddenly lost interest in art that what had passed as cultural savviness was unmasked as pure investment strategy. The public, in turn, took one look at the slick art of the 80's and felt confirmed in its old suspicion that all of modern art, from the pricey doodles of Picasso on down, was really a ruse. "The tragedy of the 80's is that art has lost its claim to integrity," says Peter Halley, whose loud, radically simplified paintings of battery cells have made him the leader of the once-trendy Neo-Geo school. "Art is now seen as a sham by the public."
Can we ever go back to the values of an earlier era? Or is it too late? The number of art students in America is estimated to have nearly tripled in the past decade; figures provided by the Department of Education indicate that at least 11,000 aspiring Warhols will graduate with a bachelor of fine arts degree this year. As these young artists set out, the question is who will break the news to them that the art world is not a social-welfare system; it cannot provide a living for every tyro who picks up a brush in the name of self-expression. In truth, only a handful of artists will make art to last the ages, and it is not churlish to expect them to be willing to endure whatever misfortunes the world throws their way for the sake of artistic greatness and glory.
But how many artists would agree? Certainly not Ross Bleckner. An 80's art star, Bleckner is known for atmospheric nocturnes and moody stripe paintings that both insist on romance and acknowledge that romance may no longer be possible. I recently asked him whether he thought poverty was ennobling. He laughed uproariously, then replied in an amiable tone: "The starving artist never really existed -- except as a media cliche."
"I think artists should earn more than they do," he continued. "The truth of the matter is that an artist who is doing well financially earns only as much as a third-rate advertising executive. I don't know why it always annoys people to imagine artists doing well." He paused to consider his own question, then ruminated on Vincent van Gogh, who is worshiped as much for clipping his famous ear and dying in utter destitution as for his pictures of swirling skies. "Van Gogh ruined it for the rest of us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judy Pfaff, a sculptor, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the art world's new bohemia. Her career once seemed recession-proof. (Joel Sternfeld for The New York Times)(pg. 28); Ross Bleckner, an 80's art star known for nocturnes and stripe paintings. (Joel Sternfeld for The New York Times); Frank Stella's sculptures, like "Aurora," shrank along with the 90's money supply. (Steven Sloman/Knoedler & Company)Louise Fishman remains loyal to old-fashioned abstraction at a time when younger artists are moving toward socially conscious themes. (Stephen Shore for The New York Times)(pg. 30); Kiki Smith, with "Untitled" (1986), ink on paper, has been praised for art that depicts the physically distressed. (Joel Sternfeld for The New York Times); Installations, like "Newspaper," by Robert Gober, will dominate the 1993 Biennial Exhibition at the Whitney. (Paula Cooper Gallery)(pg. 31); "Land of Projection," above, by Bruce and Norman Yonemoto and Timothy Martin (Artists' Collection), and George Holliday's footage of the Rodney King beating, below, will be shown at the Whitney Biennial. (George Holliday/Social Reform)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; FINANCES; PRICES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CURRENCIES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, DEBORAH FRANK PHILIP STELLA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1993



798 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Mexico City

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN; TIM GOLDEN is the Mexico City correspondent for The Times.

 BODY:
For decades now, Mexico City has been afflicted by unsubtle, centrifugal forces: Traffic and noxious smog, noise and sundry chaos forced people from its center. One ventured downtown because one had to, went the thinking of those citizens who didn't, and one did so at the risk of nausea, neurosis or worse.
Beneath the brownish haze of pollution, however, Mexicans have begun to rediscover the center of a city that has an extraordinary history. Young artists and bohemians have moved into some of the decrepit colonial buildings, and a few wealthier residents have taken to restoring others. Politicians and power-bureaucrats have made the center's old restaurants fashionable again, and its museums and theaters are busier and busier. 
 Like the city's broader transition from an industrial economy to one focused more on services, the changes at its heart are incipient. The streets are still clogged like bad arteries, and even though the authorities take pollution problems seriously, their only hope is to reduce the rate at which they grow worse. More and more chilangos, as its residents are called, seem willing to suspend their despair.
At the end of the winter, when the nights begin to warm and the worst of the smog to lift, they even celebrate. Momentarily, the sea of street vendors and Volkswagens seems to part and a 100-block landscape of Baroque churches, 16th-, 17th- and 18th-century administrative buildings and elegant old homes comes into relief.
 
What to Do
 Beginning March 10, the 17-day Festival del Centro Historico will lead visitors into some of the finest colonial homes, churches and buildings that Spanish conquerors built over the former Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan. Art exhibits and long, thematic meals will be offered during the day, with lectures and concerts at night.
A sampling: Choral groups and the Mexican Brass Ensemble will open the Festival with a program of religious hymns in the vast Metropolitan Cathedral on the central square, or Zocalo. Writings by Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, a 17th-century Mexican nun whose iconoclastic poems and letters jolted the Catholic hierarchy, will be read in the cloister where she lived on 47 Calle St. Jeronimo, March 13 at 5 P.M.
Festival information is available at 376 Paseo de la Reforma, Room 202; telephone 207-2654 or 325-9000. Many of the events are free.
Although the authorities have yet to fix dates, they are expected to extend the successful run of the monumental exhibit "Mexico: Splendors of 30 Centuries" at least several weeks into March. The show, which opened at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and ranges from the pre-Columbian to Frida Kahlo, is at the Colegio de San Ildefonso, a 16th-century Jesuit seminary that became the National Preparatory School. It shares space with murals by Jose Clemente Orozco, Diego Rivera and other 1920's Mexican painters. The exhibit will be shown Tuesday through Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Wednesdays from 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Tickets cost $3.30 (figured at the rate of about 3 pesos to $1).
During Easter week, residents of the Iztapalapa municipality, seven miles southeast of the city center, re-enact biblical scenes leading to the crucifixion of Christ. On April 9, Good Friday, thousands of residents will march to the top of the Cerro de la Estrella, led by a man carrying a wooden cross.
 
What to sSee
 After being closed for renovations for nearly two years, the Frida Kahlo Museum is scheduled to reopen in April. Ms. Kahlo was born and lived most of her life in the Spanish-style house, which contains a sampling of her work and sketches. The museum, at 247 Calle Londres in Coyoacan, will be open from 10 P.M through 6 P.M., Tuesday through Sunday. Admission will cost $3.
Nearby, the monument devoted to Frida's husband, the Diego Rivera Studio Museum, at Altavista and Diego Rivera streets in San Angel, focuses on the artist's life. It is open Tuesday to Sunday, from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $2.30.
To see some of Rivera's most famous murals, one need only go to the National Palace, where his rendering of Mexican history covers some of the walls. The building is open daily from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is free.
Nearby, is the Templo Mayor, an Aztec temple that city workers found while digging ditches for electrical cables in 1978. An adjacent museum filled with Aztec artifacts traces the history of the site. Open Tuesday to Sunday, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.
The Alameda, filled with trees, is the city center's other grand plaza. At its eastern corner sits the white marble Palacio de Bellas Artes, completed in 1934. The lobby contains works by Rivera, Siqueiros, Orozco and Rufino Tamayo. Open Tuesday to Sunday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is free.
Just down the Paseo de la Reforma, Chapultepec Park, 550 acres of park and woodlands, is home to some of the city's best museums. The National Museum of Anthropology, with its overwhelming collection of pre-Hispanic artifacts, is open Tuesday to Saturday, 9 A.M. to 7 P.M.; Sunday from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $4.25. A few blocks away, the Rufino Tamayo Museum, displays the artist's personal collection Tuesday to Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5:45 P.M. Admission is $3.25; free on Sundays.
 
Where to sStay
The Galeria Plaza, 195 Hamburgo, (800) 228-3000, fax 207-5867, in the Zona Rosa, is run by the Westin Chain, which also operates the luxurious Camino Real. The Galeria is smaller and more modest, but with a similar quality of service. Double rooms cost $146 on weekdays; $130 on weekends.
Budget: The 150-room Maria Cristina, 31 Calle Rio Lerma, 566-9688, fax 566-9194, has long been a favorite of budget travelers. It has a pleasant outdoor garden and a courtyard. Double rooms are $55.
Near the Zocalo is the Hotel Capitol, 12 Uruguay, 518-1750, fax 521-1149 whose 75 rooms, all with private baths, surround an atrium. Double rooms with one bed cost $32.70.
Luxury: With its yellow-and-pink walls, the Camino Real, 700 Avenida Mariano Escobedo, (800) 228-3000, fax 250-6897 is the only luxury hotel in the city that has the feel of a place removed from the hubbub. Low and sprawling, it has three swimming pools, a Tamayo mural in the lobby and some of Mexico's finest French food at Fouquet's, a branch of the Paris restaurant. It is within walking distance of Chapultepec Park. Double rooms are $195; $110 on weekends.
Closer to the center, the towering Maria Isabel Sheraton, 325 Paseo de la Reforma, (800) 325-3535, fax 207-6370, overlooks the gilded Angel of Independence monument. Double rooms are $235 on weekdays, $108 on weekends.
 
Where to Eat
 While the quality of Mexico City's restaurants has improved in recent years, "international" fare casts a wide influence even in some of the most traditional Mexican restaurants.
At the edge of the Alameda, at 85 Avenida de Hidalgo, the Best Western Hotel de Cortes, 518-2182, occupies a building that lodged Mexico's 16th-century Augustinian friars. The restaurant serves unremarkable Mexican food on a quite remarkable stone patio. A breakfast of pancakes or enchiladas de mole costs about $15 for two, a lunch or dinner, which might include white fish with almonds or Caesar salad costs about $30 for two.
After closing for two years, Prendes, at 10 Avenida 16 de Septiembre, 512-7517, reopened in 1989 and has regained its reputation as a downtown haunt of the powerful and the political. The menu is very Mexican, if not the sort of Mexican that tourists might think of: oysters, ceviche, cream-of-corn-and-black-corn-fungus soup. But one comes for the ambiance as much as the food: the black-lacquered chairs, the murals of former patrons like Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo. Lunch, the only meal served, costs about $75 for two with wine.
More imaginative Mexican cuisine can be found at Los Irabien, at 45 Avenida de la Paz, 660-0876, in San Angel. The menu includes such "nueva cocina" inventions as stuffed cactus leaves and huitlacoche (corn fungus) crepes. Dinner for two with wine costs about $85.
The Bar La Opera, at 10 Cinco de Mayo, 512-8959, two blocks from Bellas Artes, is another old favorite. The prominent hole on the ceiling was supposedly left by one of the revolutionary Pancho Villa's bullets. As usual, the atmosphere outdoes the food, but the cabrito, or barbequed goat and the roast pig have their fans. Dinner for two costs $60 with wine.
The Restaurante Vasco, 6 Madero, 512-0613, one block from the Bellas Artes palace, is open for lunch only. Its comidas corridas, or prix fixe menus, feature hearty Spanish dishes like fabada asturiana, a bean-potato-and-sausage stew, and cost about $9.
Most restaurants are open for lunch from 1 P.M. until about 5 P.M. Dinner is generally served from about 7 P.M. to 11 P.M.
 
Where to sShop
 The most popular shopping area for tourists is the Zona Rosa, a grid of streets and pedestrian malls filled with restaurants, galleries and boutiques. Many leading silversmiths from Taxco have branches there, including Tane, 70 Calle Amberes, where a pair of earrings costs $100 or more.
The Polanco area, north of Chapultepec Park, has recently sprouted hundreds of shops and restaurants. Talavera de Puebla Uriarte, 95 Emilio Castelar, sells finely painted ceramics, costing about $60 for a large serving dish and $300 for a vase.
The largest selection of traditional handicrafts are found in the half-dozen downtown artisan markets where bargaining is expected. The Ciudadela Handicraft Market, on Calle Balderas between Ayuntamiento and Donde, houses hundreds of glassed-in craft shops. Most are open daily from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. While the market has its share of marble chess sets and Aztec calenders, it also has high-quality weavings and jewelry.
The Mexican Government runs its own traditional art shops, called Fonart stores, that sell jewelry, pottery, furniture and clothing. Silver rings cost about $15. Smaller Indian tapestries cost about $90, larger ones $160. The best-stocked Fonart store is at 691 Patriotismo.
Most shops are open between 10 A.M. and 6 P.M., although some, particularly in the Zona Rosa, stay open later. Many close at lunchtime.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Metropolitan Cathedral in the Zocalo. Patio of the Colegio de San Ildefonso, a 16th-century seminary. (Photographs by Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Mexico City. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Mexican Consulate General, The Times Books World Weather Guide)
 
Map of Mexico City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO CITY (MEX); MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL SMOG (91%); FESTIVALS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); PAINTING (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (65%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM FRIDA KAHLO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1993



799 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Have Suburban Prices Hit the Bottom?

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
THE market for one-family homes in the suburban New York metropolitan region, much of which has been in decline for the last five years, appears to have bottomed out in most areas, and, in some places, such as Northern New Jersey, a modest recovery seems to be under way.
Real estate brokers attribute the trend to low mortgage interest rates, realistic prices set by sellers, the dearth of new construction and a small surge of first-time buyers who were priced out of the market in the mid-80's and frightened out in the late 80's and early 90's. 
 They caution, though, that because of the suburban region's continued economic weakness and changing demographics, home sale prices are expected to increase at a far slower pace than the double-digit gains achieved by many homeowners in the Northeast in the early and mid-80's.
Moreover, in some places, such as Connecticut, which has been unusually hard-hit by job losses, sale prices might remain depressed, or the increases will not surpass the annual rate of inflation, giving pause, perhaps, to some potential buyers about the investment value of residential real estate.
"Prices will be flat this year, the same as last," said Peter Helie, president of William Pitt Realty in Stamford, Conn.
Typical of the new buyers are Steven and Jeanie Schatzberg, who rent a one-bedroom co-op on the Upper East Side of Manhattan but need more space for the children they plan to have and the step-children who visit on weekends, holidays and for the summer. The stepchildren currently sleep on a pull-out sofa in the living room. "We're ready to get back to the suburbs," said Mr. Schatzberg, who is 44 years old and a retail consultant.
The Schatzbergs -- she is 35 and a merchandiser for a womens' ready-to-wear company -- recently bought a four-bedroom Colonial-style home in Stamford with a pool for $435,000, a price that they negotiated down from $479,000.
"That's what I offered, and that's what he took," Mr. Schatzberg said.
TRACKING the trends of the region's real estate market can be difficult, as disparities often develop not only between micromarkets, but in analysts' assessments and brokers' sales figures.
These deviations often result from differing survey samples or methodologies as well as from efforts to paint the best possible statistical picture to help increase business.
Looking at the 1992 sales price and volume data collected from several boards of realtors, it appears that the degree of recovery in the New York area thus far has varied depending on location and the type of housing. The market, for example, seems to be improving most for one-family homes in New Jersey and on Staten Island, and least for homes on Long Island and for condominiums in Connecticut.
Reflecting both more realistic pricing and what brokers believe is a large number of first-time buyers entering the market, the average home sale price in the tri-state region fell 0.5 percent, to $172.6 in 1992 from $173.5 a year earlier. In contrast, the average sale price in the nation last year rose 3.2 percent, to $103,600 from $100,300 a year earlier.
In New Jersey, in Bergen and Passaic counties, the average sale price of a one-family home rose 0.25 percent, to $187,600 from $187,100. In Monmouth and Ocean counties, the figure rose 3.5 percent, to $139,200 from $134,400, and in Hunterdon, Middlesex and Somerset counties the figure rose 6.6 percent, to $168,900 from $158,400.
In Newark, the average sale price of a home also rose -- by 3.1 percent, to $184,400 from $178,800
"WE knew the recovery was coming we just didn't know when," said Bill Higgins, the owner of Higgins Real Estate in Hillside, N.J. "We're seeing a lot of first-time buyers and our trade-up market is starting to shake loose."
In New York, in the boroughs of Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens, the average sale price fell 4.2 percent, to $220,800 from $230,700. On Staten Island, the price rose 0.3 percent, to $164,800 from $164,300.
Elsewhere in the state, home sale prices fell 0.4 percent, to $158,600 from $159,200, on Long Island. In Westchester County, the figures dropped 0.3 percent, to $265,000 from $265,700, for houses and 6.1 percent, to $153,000 from $163,000, for condominiums. In Rockland County, prices declined 0.2, percent to $192,800 from $193,100.
Even in the areas where the market declined in 1992, a slowly shrinking number of homes for sale may soon start to push prices back up. Many brokers have also reported the strongest surge of activity during January and February of this year, months for which data are not yet available.
"Though it's not running away, the market is stronger than it appears to have been for a long, long time, and more steady," said Alan Yassky, former regional vice president of the National Association of Realtors and the president of Rockland Realty-Better Homes and Gardens in Spring Valley, N.Y. "Prices are slightly rising, if anything, and the number of buyers available certainly has increased considerably from last year."
"We always thought the problem with the real estate market was a lack of confidence, and it would appear that people are more confident that we are out of recession," he added. "There is also no question that the low interest rates and the aggressive marketing of mortgages by many banks have been helpful."
In Connecticut, average home sale prices for 1992 in Stamford declined 1.5 percent, to $330,000 from $335,000, in 1991. For condominiums, the figure fell 11.8 percent, to $127,000 from $143,000. Elsewhere in the state, the prices fell 4.8 percent in New Haven, to $145,800 from $153,200, and in Hartford by 4.7 percent, to $141,100 from $148,200.
As steep as those numbers are, they are a fraction of the decline recorded in those cities over the last few years. In Stamford, the 1992 average price for a one-family house is 22.7 percent less than the average for 1989, $427,000. For condominiums, last year's figure is 29.4 percent less than the figure five years earlier, $180,000.
CHARLES M. STARO, president of the New York Association of Realtors, speculated that the decline in sale prices might also be a signal that there was an increase in first-time home buyers.
"The first-time buyer purchases a house about $15,000 below the average," he said. "This means that while the average cost declined, it did so because the purchase of smaller, less expensive homes dominated the market."
The statistics on home sales may sound bleak for much of the region, New Jersey notwithstanding. More promising was the volume of activity.
In New York, there were 6.1 percent more sales last year than in 1991. In Connecticut, the figure rose by 5.8 percent. In New Jersey the increase was 10.6 percent -- the highest level since 1988 and higher than the national increase of 8.5 percent.
"Household balance sheets and incomes are returning to satisfactory conditions, and most New Jerseyans are feeling more comfortable participating again in the marketplace," said Gene Azzalina, the president of the New Jersey Association of Realtors.
Brokers have also reported the strongest surge of activity during the fourth quarter of last year and the first six weeks of 1993. In New York, for example, resales of one-family homes were 18.4 percent higher in December of 1992 than in the previous December.
"The state has been experiencing increases in sales for the past couple of months," Mr. Staro said. "The over-18-percent increase in December is more than encouraging -- it's phenomenal."
The December increase was preceded by increases of 3.6 percent in October and 2.4 percent in November.
"A boost in consumer confidence and lower interest rates brought buyers out en masse the last quarter," Mr. Staro said.
Some brokers also believe that sales prices are already rising in early 1993.
Lonnie Shapiro, a broker with William Pitt Real Estate in Ridgefield, Conn., recently acted as the agent for a deal involving a five-bedroom, 3,300-square-foot colonial on two acres for which the original buyer paid $365,000 in August of 1987, the peak of the market.
Ms. Shapiro said she had placed the home on the market in February 1992 for $365,000, then dropping the asking price to $345,000, to $339,000, to $329,000 and, finally, to $319,000. The house ultimately sold last December for $307,000.
The seller, however, should have waited a few more weeks, Ms. Shapiro said. She noted that in that mid-level price range there was a growing shortage of available houses. She said that most of the new construction in the area was for homes that started at $500,000.
"He could get $330,000 for it now, easily," she said.
The buyers of the home, Laura and Thomas Freed, hope Ms. Shapiro's assessment is accurate. The couple -- he is a 29-year-old lawyer, she is a 26-year-old accountant -- had been living in a condominium that they hadbought in Norwalk, Conn., for $210,000 in 1988, a high price at the height of the market.
With the condominium now worth no more than $170,000 and probably less, the Freeds decided to rent it out and buy the home in Ridgefield, a fast-growing town north of Wilton, Westport and Stamford that has become a haven for home-buyers seeking moderately priced homes in expensive Fairfield County.
"We've heard that the market is starting to pick up around here," Mrs. Freed said. "We'd like to think we finally made a good real estate investment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura and Thomas Freed and son, Joshua, at Ridgefield, Conn., house. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "Sale Prices" shows median prices of existing single family homes. (Source: National Association of Realtors)(pg. 6)
 
Table: "Sale of Existing Homes" shows sales of single-family homes and condominiums. (Source: National Association of Realtors)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TRENDS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); READY TO WEAR (71%); INFLATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); RETAIL SALES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1993



800 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: State's Case Links Poverty to Students' Performance

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON

 BODY:
THE Sheff v. O'Neill desegregation trial is nearly over, and soon a single Superior Court judge, Harry Hammer, will take on the task of sorting out Connecticut's responsibility for how poorly children do in the public schools of Hartford.
In its defense this month, the state argued that the last-place ranking of Hartford students on mastery tests for reading, writing and mathematics did not mean that they had inferior schools, or that they were denied the equal educational opportunity guaranteed by Connecticut's Constitution. 
 Rather, expert witnesses said, their performance reflects the fact that, as a group, the 25,700 children in Hartford's schools, 90 percent of whom are black or Hispanic, are the poorest in Connecticut. And the powerful ways in which poverty works upon families and children make the poor the least likely to do well in any school.
"We can pretty much explain the difference between Hartford and the suburbs in terms of a couple of factors of socioeconomic status," said Prof. David Armor of George Mason University, the state's final witness, who has taken part in a dozen desegregation cases across the country.
 
Statistics Tell the Story
 Mastery test scores in Hartford and its suburbs, he said, can be predicted almost entirely by looking at the income, college education and number of single parents in each community.
The average income in Hartford is about half that in its suburbs, he said, and the proportion of its residents with college degrees is less than half of that in the suburbs. But the proportion of city families headed by single parents is nearly five times that in surrounding towns.
"My evidence does not show that Hartford is doing an inadequate or poor job," Professor Armor said. "Given these quite different students, Hartford is doing quite a good job."
Professor Armor's testimony was the final caution flag the state raised for Judge Hammer before he begins considering a case in which the plaintiffs are seeking a desegregation order covering Hartford and 21 surrounding towns -- 95,000 public-school children in all.
If poverty is the overriding issue, Professor Armor and other witnesses for the state said, a court-ordered desegregation plan would miss the point. Desegregation, they said, does little to improve the academic performance of children who may be black or Hispanic, but most of all are poor.
Meanwhile, they testified, such a plan would be expensive and difficult to carry out, and would risk the flight of large numbers of whites.
In a survey of the Hartford area conducted for the state, 51 percent of the whites questioned said they would move or resort to private schools if their children were assigned to a new school under a desegregation plan (compared with 45 percent of the Hispanic people questioned and 23 percent of the blacks).
Integration has its value, the witnesses testified, but it should be viewed as a goal in itself, not as a way to improve schools. "If you believe in integration, you believe in it because it's something you want," said Prof. Christine Rossell of Harvard University.
For an integration plan to succeed, Professor Rossell said, it should be voluntary, and it must provide incentives for people to participate. Connecticut, she said, is already a national leader in promoting voluntary measures through programs like Project Concern and its support for interdistrict magnet schools.
"It's doing what I would recommend, 'slow and steady wins the race,' " she said. "Make sure your population wants integration."
One reason this lawsuit was filed, however, is that the racial segregation and poverty in Hartford's schools have steadily increased while the state has studied and worried over the problem since the 1960's.
So it was little relief to Elizabeth Sheff, the mother of 13-year-old Milo Sheff, the lead plaintiff, to hear Professor Rossell say that the gap in academic achievement between whites and blacks was narrowing as blacks' economic status improved, and that the gap might well be gone 30 years from now.
"That's not even my grandchildren," Ms. Sheff said.
 
Aid Distribution Defended
 The state, in its defense, also presented witnesses who testified that Hartford's schools received far more state aid than suburban ones, precisely to help it overcome the effects of poverty on its students.
In the 1990-91 school year, for example, 56.9 percent of Hartford's $210.6 million school budget -- $119.8 million -- came from the state. But state aid made up only 13.1 percent, or $8.2 million, of West Hartford's $62.6 million school budget.
Other witnesses testified that conditions in Hartford's schools were not nearly so bleak as teachers and principals testified for the plaintiffs. Nevertheless, many classes lack books and supplies, and some schools are so overcrowded that half of the pupils are housed in portable classrooms.
In the end, however, testimony returned to just who the children in those classrooms were. Aside from being racially segregated, most come from families where there is only one parent; half come from families on welfare; half come from homes where English is not spoken.
They do not arrive in kindergarten as 5-year-olds with the kinds of experiences that traditional schools expect children of that age to have, and they do not go home to families that can support their education in ways that middle-class families take for granted.
But they do go to school, and if the state's experts testified that schools could not solve all of society's problems, they also acknowledged that they were already dealing with them, starting with the breakfast that Hartford elementary schools serve to nearly every child every morning.
"As many of the teachers and administrators have said, if the school system doesn't deal with it, then who will?" said John Brittain, one of the lawyers for the Sheff plaintiffs. "The school system is often the best institution that these children have to support their life, as well as their future."
"The teachers say you have to deal with it," he continued, "because the child is right there in the classroom."
 
The Governor's Proposal
 The state's defense in general supported Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s legislative proposal for achieving greater racial balance between Connecticut's cities and towns, by arguing that integration should be undertaken carefully and voluntarily while the root issue of poverty is addressed outside the schools.
The plaintiffs have not proposed a specific desegregation plan, in large part because they are seeking a court order that would instruct the Hartford region to come up with its own plan to integrate city schools with suburban ones.
Much of their testimony amounted to a desegregation seminar for Judge Hammer, reviewing the kinds of measures that have been adopted elsewhere, both mandatory and voluntary, as well as educational programs that could be used to improve city schools themselves.
The ultimate goal of the suit, after all, is to provide Hartford children an equal educational opportunity, and a desegregation plan is one part of the solution that the plaintiffs are proposing. They also want to improve the quality of Hartford's schools and provide them more resources.
If nothing more, Mr. Brittain said, "we've certainly heightened the public consciousness of the racial and educational disparities in this state, and we've been a part of several other steps, including the Governor most significantly, that have provoked discussion in Connecticut about educational remedies.
"We think we have presented to this court, and more directly to the state, not only the range of desegregation remedies, but also the possibility of some desegregation remedies, regardless of how the court suit is decided."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The entrance to the Hartford Board of Education. Many classes in the city's school system lack books and supplies and some students are housed in portable classrooms. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Town by Town: Minority Students in the Schools" lists Connecticut school districts, minority enrollment and state ranking. (Source: Connecticut Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TRIALS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); PARENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); JUDGES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); RANKINGS (76%); EXPERT WITNESSES (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE EDDIE GEORGE (69%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1993

 
