

1 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Midtown Tops National Cost Survey; 
$7,000 a Year For Parking

 BODY:
It should not come as much of a surprise to anyone who drives to work in Manhattan, but a recent national survey found that Midtown and downtown are the most expensive places to park a car in the country.
 The survey, by Colliers International, a real estate services company, found that reserved parking in underground or covered structures averaged $590 a month in Midtown and $510 a month downtown. 
Unreserved parking in underground or covered structures was somewhat cheaper, averaging $520 a month in Midtown and $400 a month downtown. 
 The average monthly rate nationally is $157, with the average pulled down by places like Fresno, Calif., and Phoenix, where a month's worth of parking can be had for $35. Boston, San Francisco and Chicago follow New York in expense, with reserved monthly rates of $450, $400 and $375 respectively.
The cost to park a car in a central business district had been increasing faster than the rate of inflation, according to the survey, with the national average parking cost rising 14 percent over last year and by 33 percent over the level in 1996.
"The cost of parking is rising above the rate of inflation because of constrained supply in most major markets," said Ross Moore, Colliers's director of research. "Some cities have waiting lists of three to 15 months for parking spaces." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: COLLIERS INTERNATIONAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



2 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
A Serious Student Of Cartoons

BYLINE:  By JOHN SWANSBURG 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
A TOUR of J. J. Sedelmaier's animation studio is an introduction to his passions. He keeps his collection of comic books close at hand in his office, near a fleet of toy trains and a library of books on everything from Leonardo da Vinci to Bruce Lee. Antique telephones, including an early touch-tone model that predates the advent of the pound and star keys, have a wall of their own.
 There is no mistaking Mr. Sedelmaier's most fervent passion, however. Artifacts from the history of animation line the studio's hallways. He's even made room for a preview moviola, a piece of equipment that purportedly belonged to Preston Blair, the animator of Disney's "Fantasia." 
 "The possibilities with animation are truly endless," Mr. Sedelmaier said. "You create a world." 
If you own a television, you've probably seen a J. J. Sedelmaier Production. Over the last 10 years, the studio has produced animated commercials for Old Navy, Hewlett-Packard and Volkswagen, among others. 
Its collaboration with the writer Robert Smigel brought viewers of "Saturday Night Live" popular shorts like the X-Presidents, in which the nation's retired commanders in chief take on the forces of evil. In 1992, MTV asked Mr. Sedelmaier to animate a series about two teenagers who eventually became so ubiquitous that it was difficult to avoid them even if you didn't own a television: their names were Beavis and Butt-Head.
"He has a sense of what is entertaining, what is captivating, what will transfix an audience," said Mike Rogers, president and creative director of the Wolf Group New York, an advertising agency. This sense has allowed Mr. Sedelmaier to succeed as a producer of both commercials and long-form animation, Mr. Rogers said: "There are very few people who can do that."
Mr. Sedelmaier, 45, opened the studio after nearly a decade of work in animation. Though he was tentative at first about going on his own, his partner, who runs the business side of the studio, assured him that he had the experience and vision to open up his own shop. That vote of confidence was difficult to ignore: his business partner is Patrice Sedelmaier, his wife. 
Initially, the studio focused on producing commercials. A knack for advertising runs in Mr. Sedelmaier's family: his father, Joe Sedelmaier, directed television commercials and created one of the most famous ads in television history -- the Wendy's "Where's the Beef?" spot. 
A 30-second animated commercial can take from a week to five months to produce, depending on its artistic demands. Such a commercial could cost several hundred thousand dollars, or significantly less, again depending on the nuances of the project. Mrs. Sedelmaier said the studio produces 18 to 20 commercials a year. 
Though Sedelmaier Productions is now in its second decade, the studio has not developed a house style. On the contrary, Mr. Sedelmaier has tried to avoid being pegged. 
Fred Seibert, former president of MTV Networks Online, said: "Most people are known for particular techniques and styles. It's rare when that's not the case. It's not the case with J. J." 
Certain themes do recur in the studio's oeuvre. Its commercial for Volkswagen, in which it adapted Speed Racer cartoons to sell the company's GTI model, is an example of how Mr. Sedelmaier's knowledge of -- and affection for -- the history of animation has influenced the studio's work. In the GTI spot, the studio recreated an existing style -- in this case Speed Racer's Japanimation, rendered to near perfection, including flaws in the original, like poor dubbing -- to sell a contemporary product.
Success producing commercials allowed Sedelmaier Productions to take risks with long-form projects, like animating the first season of Beavis and Butt-Head. Long-form animation has different demands, but many of the same sensibilities evident in the studio's commercials come through in its long-form work.
In "The Ambiguously Gay Duo," one of the Saturday Fun House TV shorts produced with Mr. Smigel for "Saturday Night Live," the studio faithfully rendered elements from superhero cartoons of the 60's. It then added a dash of homoeroticism, to make the shorts not just a parody of classic superhero cartoons, but of contemporary anxieties about sexual identity as well. The result is a crime-fighting duo, Ace and Gary, who confound their enemies as much with their congratulatory pats on the posterior as with their superpowers.
"I had a very specific parody in mind, and I just knew he would nail every detail of it," Mr. Smigel said. "I didn't just want it to look like a superhero cartoon. I wanted it to look like a superhero cartoon from 1964 or 1966. There were all these specific details and I knew that J. J. would care about them. It was such a pleasure working with someone who was really interested in getting it right."
Getting it right has become a good deal easier in the decade since Sedelmaier Productions opened: advances in computer technology have been a tremendous boon to animators.
"The flexibility it affords you is incomparable," Mr. Sedelmaier said. In 1991, a relatively new invention called the fax machine allowed him to open a studio in White Plains, where rents were not as prohibitive as in New York City. Still, even with the help of the fax, the studio had to messenger its work to the city to be shot onto film and to be developed; the work then had to be sent back to White Plains for editing, only to return to the city again to be put on video. 
Today, because of digital technologies, the studio is almost completely self-sufficient. The equivalent of the camera work is now done on a computer named Daniel (after the studio's old cameraman). The finished product can be put on video in-house -- or even e-mailed to a client as a Quicktime movie. 
Being away from the city has its advantages, Mr. Sedelmaier said. Clients inclined to meddle are less likely to do so if it requires a trip from Madison Avenue to Main Street in White Plains.
The studio's 12 employees are currently at work on a commercial for Quilted Northern bathroom tissue and on a new series for Cartoon Network. Mr. Sedelmaier said the studio's willingness to take risks with projects outside the commercial realm has helped it weather the current economic downturn, which has reduced the demand for advertising. "If we had decided to do commercials exclusively, it would have been lethal," he said. 
But Mr. Sedelmaier's desire to seek out new challenges is an artistic, not an economic, impulse, he insists. 
"I feel a strong responsibility to the craft, to push the potential of animation to the limit because there aren't a lot of people doing that," he said. Before he commits the studio to a new endeavor, he must be convinced that animation is right for the project. "I've turned down plenty of work because it had no business using animation," he said. "It's not right for everything."
As for personal recognition, he doesn't seem to mind that many of his best efforts don't come with credits. 
"I wouldn't want someone to look at a commercial and say, 'Oh, that's a J. J. Sedelmaier spot,' " he said. "I want people to look at it and say, 'That works.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos J.J. Sedelmaier in his animation studio in White Plains. Top right, Sean Lattrell drawing on an animation board for an advertisement. Middle, the X-Presidents, a cartoon short that can be seen on "Saturday Night Live," Bottom, a shot from a Volkswagen commercial featuring Speed Racer. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); WRITERS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%) CARTOONS AND CARTOONISTS; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; MEMORABILIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); WOLF GROUP (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: MIKE ROGERS (50%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (50%) SEDELMAIER, J J; SWANSBURG, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



3 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: The State's New Pastime: Looking For a Job 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA 

 BODY:
THE state's unemployment rate is one of the lowest in the nation, but State Department of Labor statistics released last month show that workers have been losing their jobs at a brisk clip -- 2.4 percent were out of work in May, compared to 1.9 percent in March. Unemployment claims have also jumped, , rising 8 percent from March to May and almost 63 percent from May of last year.
 Suddenly, people in a state known for its good jobs and high incomes are finding themselves out of work. Since last fall, at least two dozen major Connecticut companies have laid off thousands of employees, according to labor department figures. And it's not just the Internet-related companies taking the hits. The automotive, machinery, plastics, retail, and health-care industries have seen significant cutbacks in personnel as well. Just last week, R. R. Donnelly & Sons, a printing company, announced it would close its plant in Old Saybrook, affecting 500 jobs. The labor department said that as of May, 40,100 people were unemployed, compared to 32,900 in March. 
 And while the lost jobs are bad news for the state's economy because out-of-work people don't tend to buy houses, new cars, eat in restaurants and take trips, they do spend money on something else: job-hunting. In the last few months, clothing stores, office supply businesses and career counseling operations are all reporting a surge in business as more and more people come in looking for the tools they need to get a new job.
"Job hunters have helped business because it's no longer one person applying for 10 jobs, it's 10 people applying for one job," said Paul Grenier, manager of Hutton's, a men's clothing store in North Haven. "That means more and more people are coming in and thinking along the lines of, 'I've got to change my appearance and make myself look different than the others."'
Tara Curran, who was laid off in April from her job as a marketing associate at a Norwalk media company, worked hard to package herself for job interviews with a new business wardrobe.
"The first thing I did was buy a black suit, with a long skirt and short skirt, and a couple of shirts to go with it, so I could mix and match," she said. "I bought tons of new stockings and a pair of black summer shoes. I got my hair cut. I did the works."
She also took train trips and cab rides to job interviews, got resumes copied, and faxed two or three pages of job applications at $1 a page to job prospects. Then it was back to the store for more clothes. She said she spent about $350 on her job search.
"I was called back for a third interview with the same person, so I needed another suit," she said about the Manhattan company that eventually hired her. "I wanted her to see me in something different than what I already wore."
Walter Dolde, associate professor of finance at the University of Connecticut's Stamford branch, said there was a "silver-lining aspect" to an economic downturn.
"From the aggregate, or national, point of view, the effects of layoffs are only bad, but there are shifts among sectors in the economy as various events happen," Mr. Dolde said. "There are some segments that do better in slower economic times, like used-car sales. Quality used cars become tighter because fewer people are willing to take the chance and spring for a new car. Usually, people cut back in eating in restaurants. That's bad for restaurants and waiters, but people still have to eat, so processed-food companies, like Campbell and General Foods, do better."
It's what Bob Shullman, president of the Willard & Shullman Group in Greenwich, a company that conducts customer-satisfaction surveys, calls the "yin and yang of the world. Every time you cut one thing, there's an uptick in something else." 
Carol King, 40, of Norwalk, who was laid off in March as associate editor of Internetnews.com, a Darien-based Web site devoted to news about the Internet, said her biggest expense had been for clothes. Ms. King said the way she had dressed for work was no longer acceptable in this post dot-com economy.
"The last two jobs I had were extremely casual," Ms. King said. "Jeans and sneakers were fine. But at an interview I had for a job in New York City, I learned that the company only had casual Fridays,' so I had to buy new clothes -- a blazer, a dress and some skirts and tops. It adds up."
Brian Stockmoe, 34, of Ridgefield said he spent a lot of money to find a new job, although he would not say how much. Mr. Stockmoe had been riding the high-tech wave in Connecticut since the fall of 1999, then "the bubble burst," he said. Mr. Stockmoe was laid off last October from Priceline.com's Webhouse Club, the "name-your-own-price" for gasoline and groceries dot-com in Greenwich, where he developed software and ran the company's Web site. Within a few weeks of his termination, Mr. Stockmoe found an executive position at another high-tech start-up. But, because a downturn in the economy dried up new capital, the company let Mr. Stockmoe go in March.
"You definitely have to make an investment, overall," said Mr. Stockmoe, who has since taken a job at GE Capital in Stamford. "I had to buy a suit because the last one I had bought was in 1992 and most of my environments have been pretty laid back since then."
He also bought three books to stay current on technology trends. But his spending didn't stop there. He also bought a fax machine for his home so he wouldn't have to keep paying $1 a page to fax his resume from local office-supply stores. "And that doesn't count travel expenses to New York City, and parking," he said. "I had to pay $45 just to park for two to three hours for a job interview on the Upper East Side."
Michael Moeser, 37, of Greenwich, who was laid off in April after little more than a year as an associate director at the Gartner Group, a technology research and analysis company in Stamford, has been busy photocopying and faxing his resume at Kinko's in Greenwich. "That's something you take for granted in an office environment," Mr. Moeser said. "Now it's something like $3 to $5 each time I send a resume."
Dave Florio, branch manager of Kinko's on High Ridge Road in Stamford, said the recent layoffs had created an interesting phenomenon at his store.
"More people come in here on a Sunday afternoon after they read the newspaper to fax off a couple of resumes," he said. "I'm seeing more people branching out on their own. I hear things like, 'I'm tired of working for The Man.' My personal business card and letterhead businesses are up considerably from last year. People are going into consulting, or their own start-ups."
In recent months, Ayers Group/Career Partners International, a career-management firm that has a regional office in Norwalk, said it had been busy. Companies hire Ayers to coach laid-off employees in finding new jobs by beefing up their resumes, or teaching them how to ace an interview. 
"In April and May of this year business has tripled over the same months in 2000," said Bill Ayers, president and chief executive.
The pace has also picked up at K2 Resources in Greenwich, an executive recruiting firm, said Kelly Coles, a managing partner. Ms. Coles estimated that the company is receiving about 100 unsolicited resumes a week, about twice the number they were seeing late last year.
"It probably takes on average about 45 minutes to answer and respond to all the new resumes each morning," said Ms. Coles. "We've always had a steady number of incoming phone calls, but now it's full-time."
Mr. Dolde of UConn said the downturn had also increased the enrollment at business schools.
"M.B.A. enrollment between 1997 and 2000 had declined 23 percent because a lot of people said the job market is hot right now so I'll go to work for dot-com and get some stock options," he said. "But M.B.A. admissions are picking up and will continue to pick up for the next year or so."
Peter Gioia, an economist with the Connecticut Business and Industry Association in Hartford said all this activity helps, but it certainly doesn't come close to making up for the spending that laid-off workers otherwise would have done. "It generates activity in some businesses, but overall, there is more that gets taken out of the economy," he said. "One key factor is consumer spending. Yes, laid-off people are spending on certain specifics, but they won't be buying new TV's and new furniture."
Mr. Grenier of Hutton's, the North Haven clothing store, said the average job hunter spends $475 for a suit, shirt, tie. But he said some people try to make due with less.
"I had one young guy come in looking for a clean, white T-shirt because he was going for a job interview at SNET," Mr. Grenier said. "I said, 'Not dressed like that I hope.' He later said he was going to go home and change."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Moeser, laid off in April, copies information from a book on job-hunting at a Kinko's; Carol King, who lost her job in March, reads help-wanted ads. (Photographs by Debbi Morello for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Paul Grenier of Hutton's said men have been coming in for clothes to wear to job interviews. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (84%); CLOSINGS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MEN (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (69%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (69%); MEN'S CLOTHING (62%); HEALTH CARE (54%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: DIGRAZIA, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



4 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: For Class of 2001, a Less Frenetic Market 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
IF Yamani Sekhri, who received her M.B.A. from Indiana University in May, had been searching for an apartment in Manhattan a year ago, Michael Shapot would have had one listing, maybe two, to show her on any given day. 
 But this year is different. Ms. Sekhri, who began as an investment banking associate with UBS Warburg in May, phoned Mr. Shapot, an associate broker with Coldwell Banker/Hunt Kennedy for an appointment recently, and three hours later they were off to scout seven places that met her requirements: a studio in the $1,800-a-month range. 
 Last year when the economy was feverish, "new graduates had to jump through hoops to get apartments and doors were slammed in their faces," Mr. Shapot said, as he set out to show Ms. Sekhri apartments in the financial district, Midtown and the Upper East and West Sides. "This year, with a larger pool of properties, doors are opening at prices that are marginally lower. There is basically much more inventory from which to choose, fewer people are looking, prices are more reasonable and the pace of the market is much less frenetic."
Brian G. Edwards, director of leasing with the Halstead Property Company, agreed. "It is not a complete reversal of last summer, but there is a much more comfortable scenario, where new graduates will find that the cards are not all stacked in the landlords' hands," he said. "The class of 2001 can expect to pay slightly less than the class of 2000 and closer to what the class of '99 paid. This year it's not doom and gloom; it's hope and sun."
The outlook is sunny indeed for people like Ms. Sekhri whose starting salaries in fields like investment banking and law are likely to be $85,000 or more and come attached to signing bonuses. But for new bachelor's and master's degree holders entering less financially rarefied fields like teaching and publishing, a Manhattan apartment without roommates may remain unattainable. 
So they are continuing to flock to Queens, Brooklyn and New Jersey, where demand exceeds supply by a stiff margin, keeping rents buoyed up. In some parts of Queens, brokers say, rents are soaring to new heights. In Brooklyn, they estimate, they have increased by 15 to 20 percent since last year. In Hoboken and elsewhere along the New Jersey side of the Hudson River, increasing numbers of young people find it necessary to share their quarters -- and their rent -- with roommates. 
But it remains considerably cheaper to live outside Manhattan. In Queens, for example, it is still possible to find a studio for $900. 
Ms. Sekhri faced no such constraints and found there were several prospects on her tour with Mr. Shapot that met her needs. "I'm not going to spend much time in my apartment and will never cook," she said. "I'm working from 9 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. almost every day, so I just need a place to keep my clothes, shower and sleep a few hours." 
But she didn't take any of the apartments she saw that day, figuring that with the range of choices, she could continue to look. Her starting salary is $85,000, and she received a sign-on bonus of $30,000. 
Two weeks ago she signed a lease to sublet a furnished co-op studio in Tudor City that her mother, Kalpna Deepak, had found through a newspaper ad and last week learned that she had won board approval. "It is a 10-minute walk from my office; it has a health club in the building, a microwave, dishwasher, air-conditioner, stereo and TV," she said. "It's perfect because all I have are my clothes."
The process proved far less painful than she had expected. "You hear so many stories, but if you're willing to spend $1,800 a month, it's not difficult," she said. Actually, she will be spending less: $1,550.
For the most part, landlords are receptive to new graduates, provided that like Ms. Sekhri they meet the requirements: proof of employment, references, good credit records. 
But occasionally, as John Vo and Jackie Pang, members of the class of 2001 at Georgetown University, who will start analysts' jobs at J. P. Morgan, learned recently, they raise the barriers.
"There has been some easing in the process, but at the same time, some landlords fear that people may lose their jobs and are concerned that they won't be able to fulfill lease obligations," said Paul Diem, the agent from Citi Habitats who steered them through the process. 
MR. VO flew up from his home in Miami a week after graduation and was joined by Ms. Pang, who is from Honolulu, in the search several days later. 
Mr. Diem showed them what they considered the perfect apartment: a 1,300-square-foot loft on 29th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues for $3,500 a month, $1,000 more than they had intended to spend. 
"In addition, we needed to come up with about $16,000 to secure the place: the first month's rent, a three-month security deposit and the 12 percent broker's fee," Mr. Vo said. "We liked it so much we decided to put down the money and find a third roommate."
So they sent out a mass e-mail and found David Larson, a new graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, who will also be starting work at J. P. Morgan. He was traveling in Italy, so they had numerous conversations with his mother in Malibu. Mr. Vo turned over some of the negotiations to her because, he said, "she is a real adult; I'm just a kid adult." 
Thinking they had sealed the deal, he went home to Miami and Ms. Pang to Hawaii when the landlady announced she wanted to meet all three roommates in person. Mr. Vo and Mr. Larson's mother both volunteered to meet with her but that did not satisfy her, so they decided to withdraw. 
Now the roommates will move, sight unseen, into a three-bedroom high rise on West Street that Mr. Diem found them. "In a sense, being from all parts of the country, we didn't have that many choices," Mr. Vo said. "We couldn't just show up and spend months looking."
This time they are being charged only one month's rent ($3,075) and a month's security, a good thing, Mr. Vo said, because he has already spent the $10,000 signing bonus he received. His base salary is $55,000 a year.
With new construction coming on the market in Manhattan, with a greater inventory of available apartments and with fewer people competing for them, some owners are reducing rents -- or at least not raising them. The descent began several months before the migration of this year's crop of new graduates to the city. 
"From December to March we saw across-the-board reductions in rents in all sectors ranging from 5 to 10 percent," said Mr. Edwards of Halstead Property, who recently briefed members of the graduating class at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University who were about to relocate here about what to expect.
"Last year one-bedrooms in doorman buildings averaged $2,900 to $3,100. Today they are $2,600 to $2,800. Two-bedrooms, which were $4,200 to $4,400, are now $3,900 to $4,100." 
Mr. Shapot was showing an apartment the other day when "someone slipped the rent bill for the current tenant under the door," he said. "The asking price was exactly the same."
There is also a term that is creeping back into the vocabulary of the rental market that has not been heard for years: "concession," or as it is known today, "incentive." 
At the Foundry, for example, a 222- apartment, two-building complex that opened on 10th Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets in March, those renters who signed leases by July 1 were entitled to two months free rent. Those who take apartments for Aug. 1 occupancy will receive one month free. In addition, some people who rent before Sept. 1 will be rewarded with a $500 gift certificate from Kenneth Cole, the shoe and clothing designer. 
"Landlords are willing to negotiate prices or offer some sort of incentive to the tenant with good credit, a good job and a good pedigree," Mr. Shapot said. 
In some instances, rather than reduce rents, landlords are scaling back the stiff financial requirements they had demanded in the past of young tenants starting their first jobs. "Their heads are no longer on the chopping blocks as they were last summer when landlords required that they bring along Fort Knox and proof of lineage," Mr. Edwards said. 
Andrew Heiberger, president and chief executive of Citi Habitats, a residential brokerage firm, elaborated: "They are being less restrictive. They are allowing roommates to combine their incomes to qualify for the requirement that they earn 40 to 52 times the monthly rent. They are also allowing more than one guarantor and permitting out-of-state guarantors." 
In fact, the subject of a guarantor was not raised by any of the rental agents in the apartments visited by Ms. Sekhri, nor was there the slightest suggestion that she might have any difficulty qualifying. 
However, brokers agreed, landlords are holding fast to the formula that, one way or another, a tenant's annual income be at least 40 times the monthly rent. That means to secure a $2,000-a-month apartment, a tenant must earn at least $80,000 a year. 
Certainly, bargains remain elusive. "Rents are still phenomenal here compared to anywhere else in the country," said Ruth McCoy, executive director of Feathered Nest, a rental brokerage firm. "We need to educate people that they are renting in Manhattan for the living experience."
BUT unless they have sources of income outside their paychecks, "living experience" may be no inducement to people in entry level jobs with salaries that are less than breathtaking. James Byrne, for example, an audio-visual coordinator for the Dalton School who earned his master's degree in information and library science from the Pratt Institute in May, found himself shut out of Manhattan by the rents. 
"I have been searching on and off for the past three years," he said. "I grew up in Manhattan, one of 11 children in a four-bedroom apartment in Chelsea, and I feel I deserve to be there."
He has been looking for a two-bedroom apartment and said: "I guess it is not unreasonable to spend $1,400. Anything over that is out of my price range. It looks like I might have to move to Jersey." He is now living in Brooklyn. 
While rents may be moderating a bit in Manhattan, they are not necessarily dropping in the places where young people with more modest paychecks gravitate: Astoria, Long Island City, Forest Hills and Bayside in Queens; Brooklyn Heights, Carroll Gardens, Boerum Hill, Park Slope, Williamsburg and Greenpoint in Brooklyn; Hoboken, Jersey City, Weehawken in New Jersey. 
"We still don't see things easing up," said Filomena Muncipinto, rental manager for First Choice Real Estate in Fresh Meadows, which has 70 agents deployed throughout Queens. "Rents are still going through the roof and landlords are just as demanding, if not more so." But prices in the surrounding boroughs remain well below those asked in Manhattan. According to Helen Keit, vice president for relocation and new business development for First Choice, studios can be had for $900 to $1,000, one-bedrooms for $1,000 to $1,200 and two-bedrooms for $1,300 to $1,500 in neighborhoods like Forest Hills, Flushing, Rego Park and Bayside.
In Brooklyn, John P. Burke Jr., a developer and president of a brokerage that bears his father's name, said, "Rental prices here are probably 15 to 20 percent higher than last year, and in the last three years they have probably risen 50 percent." He quoted $1,350 for a studio, $3,700 for a two-bedroom. 
Melissa Baily, who graduated from Harvard Law School a few weeks ago and who will start working as an associate at Cravath, Swain & Moore in September, headed directly for Midtown Manhattan when she started looking in April. In fact, she wanted to be within reasonable walking distance of her office at Eighth Avenue and 49th Street. 
"I called a realtor recommended by Cravath and came from Boston for a day," she said. "I said I wanted the cheapest thing I could find from which I could walk to work and that was clean."
She found her apartment, a studio at the Foundry, the new building at 10th Avenue and 54th Street, and took it that day. 
"It was really easy," she said. "They wanted confirmation from my employer regarding my salary and references from my prior landlord. I paid one month's security and one month's rent." 
The leasing agents for the building have been trying to attract young professionals by running advertisements in law and business school newspapers at such elite institutions as Harvard, Yale, Georgetown, the University of Pennsylvania and Dartmouth. 
Ms. Baily, who said she did not know what her salary would be (last year Cravath paid its first year associates $165,000, which included a $40,000 bonus), conceded that "$2,375 does seem high, especially since I was paying less for two bedrooms in Cambridge, but I knew New York would be expensive." 
Mark Buchsbaum had a ruder introduction to the real estate scene when he graduated in May from New York Medical College. He had expected to get staff housing through his internship at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital but was informed at the end of May that there was not enough space. 
Then he began scrambling to find an alternative. "I was trying not to go through a broker, but unfortunately in Manhattan that is impossible," he said. "I signed up for online programs, looked through newspapers, went to open houses listed in The Village Voice and called phone numbers listed there. Either the apartment would already be taken or you would go and find there was no buzzer for the super or if you found the super, he would say it had been taken several weeks ago." 
"I began to look in Brooklyn and Jersey to see if I could find something cheaper," he continued. "You get more space in Park Slope and Greenpoint, but it's still very expensive: $1,600 to $1,800. So I broke down and called a broker, Bonnie Waldman at Feathered Nest, who is a friend of my parents. I told her my upper limit was $2,000, but she showed me more expensive places to be more realistic."
Finally he compromised: taking a studio rather than a one-bedroom apartment for $2,001 in the West Village that he intends to share with his girlfriend, Jennifer Zweig. "It may be small," he said, "but I figured I will be out working so many hours that we won't get on each other's nerves too much."
Tadia Taylor, an unemployed actress, got her bachelor of fine arts degree from New York University Tisch School of the Arts last year, but she is only beginning her search in earnest now. 
"After I graduated, I was working as a server in a restaurant in Manhattan, and the cheapest apartments I could find were $1,300 a month," she said. "So I went to Atlanta to live with my grandmother to save up money."
MS. TAYLOR is planning to audition for television show pilots in the fall and to find an $1,800 two-bedroom apartment in Williamsburg or Fort Greene that she will share with a roommate. 
"Prices in Manhattan are ridiculously high, and they are comparable in Park Slope and Williamsburg," she said, adding: "The process is so difficult. For a student right out of school it is difficult to come up with the security deposit plus the broker's fee of 15 percent of a year's rent. When you sign a lease, you have to put up at least $4,000 or $5,000."
Jeremy Eisemann, who graduated from Colgate University in May, began working on June 1 as a public relations coordinator for three Ziff-Davis magazines, earning a base salary that is under $30,000 a year.
Two weeks after graduation, Mr. Eisemann, who grew up in Houston, began looking for an apartment he could share with four roommates."I felt that living with five people would create an immediate comfort zone of friends," he said. "I didn't want to be lost in a huge city."
But when the five young men went to East Hampton for a weekend meant as a bonding experience, two of them got into a squabble, so Mr. Eisemann decided to scale the group back to three. 
"We went looking every day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. for two and a half weeks," he said. "We were determined to live in the East Village because we didn't want to have to take taxis from where we were living to where we would be partying. Some of the places we saw were tiny and in horrible condition, and some were in commercial space. One place we saw had 60 ironing boards and 60 sewing machines." 
But they prevailed, and, with the help of a broker, found a two-bedroom apartment on 15th Street off Union Square for $3,700. "Since there are three of us, I am living in the dining room, and my room is the entrance to the kitchen," he said. "But it's an excellent place."
Looking back, he reflected, "This is not a terrible experience if you have money. But once I'm living off my own money, I guess I'll have to move out of Manhattan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeremy Eisemann, a Colgate graduate working as a public relations coordinator for three Ziff-Davis magazines, will sleep in the dining room of a two-bedroom apartment off Union Square that he and two others are renting for $3,700 a month.; Yamani Sekhri, a recent M.B.A., said she "will never cook" in the co-op studio in Tudor City that she is subletting for $1,550 because of her long hours as an investment banking associate at UBS Warburg.; Melissa Baily, fresh out of Harvard Law School, is paying $2,375 for a studio at the Foundry, a new building at 10th Avenue and 54th Street within walking distanceof her job at Cravath, Swain & Moore. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times); (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dr. Mark Buchsbaum, an intern, will live in a studio apartment in the West Village at a rent of $2,001. (Krista Joy Niles for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (68%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



5 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY MATTERS; 
Shedding Tiers? Most Eyes Are Dry

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD 

 BODY:
Be honest. Who cares what happens to those piles of prefabricated concrete that squat in the middle of the Meadowlands?
 There's Giants Stadium, where the football team that plays there cares so much about what goes on west of the Hudson that it put the letters "NY" back on their helmets. And then there's the place next door where ice hockey is played and basketball is attempted -- once known as the Brendan Byrne Arena and now named after that famous New Jerseyan, Continental. 
 Huh? Continental Airlines Arena has never exactly been the kind of place that arouses warm and fuzzy feelings like such mythic sports venues as Ebbets Field, the Polo Grounds or Yankee Stadium. 
Such was the case even when the vast block of a building took the name of the former governor -- in those days before New Jersey proved that anything could be put up for sale, even a name.
Yet, despite the jokes about holding victory celebrations for the New Jersey Devils in the parking lot of the sports complex, a lament of sorts has been rising since Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco proposed that the Devils and the New Jersey Nets abandon the swamps for an arena in Newark at a cost of $355 million.
Not so fast. The heads up has come primarily from Bergen County officials, though not because they'll miss the sports fans -- but because they'll have to do without the money those fans deliver. So aside from some elected officials and wide-eyed chamber of commerce types, it is not clear whether New Jerseyans care a bat's ash what happens to the arena or, for that matter, to the entire sports complex, sitting as it does atop a nondescript tract amid a maze of clogged highways.
"It brings a lot of business to merchants here," said one fervent proponent, George Zanakis, manager of the Candledwyck Diner. "It also helps put New Jersey on the map. The New Jersey Devils playing in the Meadowlands. The New Jersey Nets. East Rutherford became known all over the states because the Giants and Jets also play here."
At least the people from Rand McNally are grateful for the complex, otherwise they might not have known where to plug New Jersey in on their maps.
But others, like the borough's police chief, John LaGreca, whose 29-member department patrols the highways around the complex, would not miss the place if it sank into the bog. "It's just an additional burden on the town," said Chief LaGreca.
Gripes aside, when the governor came up with his final vision for extricating the two professional sports teams from the arena and shipping them to Newark, he had goodies in mind to keep Bergen County officials placated. He has even traveled to Bergen County to win support of officials concerned about the economic effect of removing the teams from the Meadowlands, offering ideas on what could replace Continental Airlines Arena. Ideas bandied about include a Disney-style family entertainment center, a mall, a Nascar racing track and, as incongruous as it sounds, a ski slope. Now Mr. DiFrancesco has to similarly appease Speaker Jack Collins, who is looking out for the interests of his fellow South Jerseyans, who are also looking fdor something out of this three carom short.
Chief LaGreca, a Giants fan who tries to avoid the sport complex except for the annual golden oldies show, said he thought it was "nice" to have East Rutherford identified as the home of the Giants, even though people, including the players, referred to the team as New York's. 
"It's New York this and New York that," he said. "I'd like to hand a map out to all the players out there and say, 'Excuse me, you're in the state of New Jersey. Manhattan's about six miles east of you.' "
A Star-Ledger Eagleton Rutgers poll of 800 New Jersey residents in January 1999 showed that 81 percent thought the sports complex had been good for the state's image, though a follow-up poll on a possible move by the Nets to Newark found that 48 percent of those polled could not care less.
"There hasn't been a big outrage over the teams being moved," said Chris Oliver, editor of the South Bergenite, a weekly newspaper in neighboring Rutherford, "except some of the readers complaining about having to go to Newark."
But William Schuber, the Bergen County executive, who attended the first Bruce Springsteen concert at the arena, is still rankled over the fate of the sports complex, which draws six million people a year. Giants Stadium and the Meadowlands Racetrack opened in 1976 and the Brendan Byrne Arena opened in July 1981 with six sold-out Springsteen concerts.
"It's not a Yankee Stadium or an Ebbets Field, but there was a certain pride and convenience that the arena was in our backyard and we identified with that," Mr. Schuber said. "Many of us wonder why it has to come down."
Ed Rice isn't one of them. Although Mr. Rice, an information technology manager from Waldwick, is a sports fan, he goes to only one or two games a year at the complex because of the traffic jams.
"What they do about the Meadowlands, I have no preference at all," Mr. Rice said, "because I usually avoid that area."
A 1998 study by Deloitte & Touche said that the arena generated about $19.5 million in sales and income taxes, according to John Samerjan, spokesman for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority. In general, the complex spurred almost 4,400 jobs in Bergen alone, the report said.
But the arena has been operating in the red, in part because of the cost of renegotiated contracts in recent years to keep the Nets and Devils there, Mr. Samerjan said.
East Rutherford, where the complex is situated, gets 21 percent of the amount raised through taxes, said Mayor James Cassella, who helped to negotiate an agreement to that effect. That will mean $3.5 million this year.
"Right now the concern of residents is what kind of financial hardship will there be if they do move," Mayor Cassella said.
Both he and Chief LaGreca, who has conducted parking ticket blitzes and cracked down on scalpers, said that if a mall was built on the site, the effect on an already bad traffic situation would be devastating.
In addition, said Rich Fritzky, president of the Meadowlands Regional Chamber of Commerce, there was a psychological consideration here.
"We don't want the nation or the world to think that people want to get out of the Meadowlands," Mr. Fritzky said. "They should believe it's a place to come.
At Captain's Mobil station on Route 17 in Rutherford, Ahmet Akincioglu, an employee, said he never went to the complex but wanted it to stay healthy. "A lot of people stop and ask directions," Mr. Akincioglu said. "They ask me, 'How can I go to the arena?' And usually they buy something."
One customer at Captain's, Mark Alessio, a computer consultant to Mercedes-Benz who had just dropped off his motorcycle, said he was an avid Jets and Devils fan who went to the complex frequently.
"It's convenient, and I feel safe over there," Mr. Alessio said. But he added, "You go to Newark, you go one block out from where they're thinking of putting up this thing, you've got problems."
Jean Sagarese, a procurement official at Picatinny Arsenal who is a founding member of the Devils fan club, said she was also concerned about safety and preferred the Continental Arena, where she could enjoy tailgate parties in the parking lot.
"It's very easy to get to," said Ms. Sagarese, who lives in Mendham. "I walk in, I know where I'm going, where my friends sit. We visit between periods. We wander around. If they kill the arena, where will I go for concerts? Im not going to Newark."
But Pete Dugan, a pharmaceutical sales and marketing executive from Ramsey who is an avid Devils fan, said the move would benefit everyone.
"The Meadowlands complex has no character," said Mr. Dugan. "Newark is New Jersey's largest city. It has some history to it and has some other things going on around it -- the performing arts center, a minor league baseball club and a vibrancy and energy that cities of any decent size bring. Being out in the Meadowlands, there is no vibrancy or energy other than hanging out in the parking lot."
Sometimes sports fans don't even make it to the parking lot, and that is where Chief LaGreca's difficulties begin. Cars, vans and S.U.V.'s parked by the road near the stadium are especially problematic -- and not just because they impede traffic.
"Let's face it," the chief said. "When people park out on the grass and on the highway, what would be the first thing they do when they come back out of a football game after consuming a lot of beer?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chief John LaGreca, inset below, said the complex was "an additional burden." Ahmet Akincioglu, bottom, who sells gas on Route 17, said it brought business. (Photographs by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); COUNTIES (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); POLICE FORCES (70%); AIRLINES (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) HOCKEY, ICE; BASKETBALL; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); STADIUMS AND ARENAS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (82%) NEW JERSEY DEVILS; NEW JERSEY NETS 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (GOV); JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



6 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Elizabeth Redisch, Hazem Gamal

 BODY:
Elizabeth Sue Redisch and Hazem Saad Gamal were married yesterday at the Wainwright House, an education center in Rye, N.Y. Dr. Khoren Arisian, the senior leader of the New York Society for Ethical Culture, performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Gamal, 39, is a marketing manager in New York for Aveda, the personal-care products company. She graduated from George Washington University, and received a certificate in Mandarin language studies from Taiwan National University and an international M.B.A. from the Ecole Superieure des Sciences Economiques Commerciales in Paris. She is the daughter of Lois Creditor Redisch of Cliffside Park, N.J., and the late Jerome L. Redisch. Her father was a partner in S. Redisch & Sons, a furniture retailer that was in New York. Her mother, who is retired, was a Democratic political consultant and a freelance writer in New Milford, N.J. 
 Mr. Gamal, 33, is an assistant vice president in the corporate technologies group at OppenheimerFunds, the mutual fund company in New York. He graduated from Johnson & Wales University in Providence, R.I., and received an M.B.A. from the American Graduate School of International Management in Phoenix. He is a son of Dr. and Mrs. Saad M. Gamal of Cairo. His father is an emeritus professor of linguistics at Cairo University. His mother, Sandra Hodges Gamal, is a librarian at the Cairo American College, a private elementary and secondary school.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); LINGUISTICS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); FURNITURE STORES (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (83%)

PERSON: REDISCH, ELIZABETH SUE (ELIZABETH SUE GAMAL); GAMAL, HAZEM SAAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



7 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: SENIORITY; 
A Special Invitation (to Anyone)

BYLINE:  By FRED BROCK; Fred Brock is an editor at The Times. His column on the approach and arrival of retirement appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: fbrock@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LIKE most of us, Ann Hamman is deluged with mail offering "preapproved" credit cards and various lines of credit from banks and financial services companies, large and small. Gold cards, platinum cards, titanium cards. Credit lines of as much as $100,000.
 Unlike most of us, however, Mrs. Hamman, 93, never sees them. That is because she has been in an assisted-living residence in Homestead, Fla., for more than a year. She suffers from memory problems and needs help with daily activities; she cannot prepare meals or manage a bank account. Her mail goes to her son, Henry Hamman, who lives nearby in Miami. 
 And Mr. Hamman, who has his mother's power of attorney, says he is appalled at the mail solicitations she receives.
"When you market indiscriminately to the elderly and the susceptible, I think it's pretty reprehensible," he said. "This is the financial equivalent of handing a loaded gun to a kid."
He is particularly angry about a check Mrs. Hamman received from Household Bank in Las Vegas, a subsidiary of Household International. The check was for $1,500.02. All Mrs. Hamman had to do was endorse it and, presto, the money would be hers -- along with a legal obligation to repay the loan in monthly installments of $55.72 for 48 months. That means that she would repay $2,674.56, which translates to an annual interest rate of 31.945 percent, more than four times the prime rate. 
"If this check had fallen into her hands, it's entirely conceivable that she might have used it and not really known what she was doing," Mr. Hamman said.
Celeste Murphy, director of investor relations at Household International, which is based in Prospect Heights, Ill., said her company did not specifically single out older people for such solicitations. She agreed that the 31.945 percent rate offered Mrs. Hamman was "stunning."
Mr. Hamman was also puzzled that many of the offers cited his mother's excellent credit history as a reason for offering her up to $100,000 of credit.
"She doesn't have any credit," he said. "She has no assets other than her pension and Social Security and hasn't owned a home since the 1960's. Either there is a credit report mix-up or this is the biggest bunch of hooey I've ever seen."
A spokeswoman in Washington for the American Bankers Association, a lobbying group, said that members "look at creditworthiness" before making credit card offers.
Mrs. Hamman grew up in Oklahoma and during World War II was a lieutenant in the Women's Army Corps, serving in Italy and Algeria. She later worked in Indiana as a consumer education agent and as a food editor at The Evansville Courier. After retiring, she served in the Peace Corps in Belize for two years. 
"She's always been a very independent person, who stood up for folks who couldn't stand up for themselves," Mr. Hamman said. "These credit offers would upset her because of the damage they can do to people who aren't financially sophisticated."
The seemingly personal solicitations can also prove seductive to the psychologically vulnerable. Mrs. Hamman is lucky that she has her son to look out for her in these matters. Many older people who are on their own -- especially if they are homebound, lonely or confused -- can easily fall victim to such practices that, while not illegal, are certainly questionable. 
Travis B. Plunkett, the legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, based in Washington, said "indiscriminate and reckless marketing" had become the rule in the credit card industry, which last year mailed out a record 3.5 billion solicitations. "While members of this industry are asking Congress to make bankruptcy more restrictive, they have actually increased their solicitations and lines of credit," he said, referring to a bill pending in Congress that would make it harder for people to erase their debts. 
"Their business model, the way they profit, is to make risky loans to people who often don't have the financial skills to know whether it's right or not," he added. "They'll give a credit card to anything that moves."
Consider the case involving the late Doug X. Ping. Doug was a Shar-Pei who was struck by a car and killed in 1994, when he was 5. The dog's Brooklyn owner, who had brought him to the United States from China, later put the pet's name on some random consumer survey. Earlier this year, Doug received a solicitation from First USA Bank in Wilmington, Del., for a National Geographic Society platinum MasterCard with a "solid line of credit" of up to $100,000.
A spokesman for First USA Bank, which is a member of the banking association and a unit of Bank One, said, "We make every effort to ensure that the offers we mail out go to credit-eligible adults."
If you're not a dog, you can take some steps to limit the number of mail solicitations you receive.
For a $5 fee, the Web site of the Direct Marketing Association (www.the-dma.org/consumers) allows you to remove your name from its members' mailing lists. The same service is free if you write to Mail Preference Service, Direct Marketing Association, P.O. Box 9008, Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735-9008. There is also an automated toll-free number (888-567-8688) that allows you to remove your name from mailed lists provided by the big credit reporting agencies.
But perhaps the best advice on dealing with credit solicitations comes from James A. Guest, the president of Consumers Union, based in Yonkers. "Just throw the stuff in the trash," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); POWER OF ATTORNEY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AGING (73%); PRIME RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ARMIES (63%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%); LOBBYING (60%) ADVERTISING; AGED; DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (72%); INDIANA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); BELIZE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



8 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Isuzu Axiom; 
Joe Isuzu Is Back, and He Has a New Sport Utility to Sell

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE KREBS 

 BODY:
REINVENTING" is a word that pops up frequently on the best-seller lists these days, applied to everything from management to souls. 
 The executives at American Isuzu must be reading a few of those books as the company has been reinventing itself little by little for much of the last decade. In 1994, the United States marketing arm for the Japanese auto manufacturer walked away from the car market to focus exclusively on selling trucks. This year, it refines its focus even further by dropping its last pickup truck, the Hombre, and selling only sport utility vehicles. 
 It has added a new sport utility, the Axiom, this spring, the fifth in its portfolio. To herald the arrival of the Axiom, aimed at attracting new, young buyers, Isuzu has pulled out all the stops.
Joe Isuzu, the lying salesman of the 1980's, is back to star in commercials after a decade-long hiatus. Ad spending is up substantially, when other automakers are slashing ad budgets. Much of the budget is financing Isuzu's largest and splashiest promotional campaign ever for any of its vehicles. It includes a role by the Axiom in the recent family movie "Spy Kids," in which geeky parents, former international spies, are kidnapped and subsequently rescued by their clever children. The promotion also involves tie-ins with McDonald's and Radio Shack.
The marketing plan is appropriate for a design as daring as the Axiom's. Its "knife-edge" styling is based on the ZXS concept vehicle, unveiled at the 1999 Tokyo auto show. With sharp, distinctive lines everywhere, the Axiom fits perfectly into the futuristic, technological world of "Spy Kids." Yet, reviews on today's suburban streets, where the Axiom will travel, were mixed. Some young men called it cool; one young woman called it weird, a word I heard often during my weeklong test drive; older people called it homely.
I wasn't surprised when the young woman said she didn't like it. The Axiom has a masculine, industrial look. There is a bold grille with hefty horizontal slats and beefy spokes on the tires. In contrast, the headlights are squinty and the taillights puny. The back end is boxy, reminding me of the behind of a station wagon. The Axiom is intended to be a reinvention of the sport utility, a crossover that mixes a little car, like the station wagon back end, with a lot of sport utility.
The industrial motif carries over to the interior. The Axiom XS I tested -- the upscale, leather-laden version -- featured a gold exterior with unappealing two-tone browns inside, accented by plastic trim that tried, and failed, to mimic metal. The beige material covering the dash was crackled, apparently to suggest saddle leather, but it, too, was a cheap-looking imitation.
The instrument panel featured red needles attached to knobs that looked like industrial rivets. Bolts and screws in other areas were exposed for a mechanical look.
The center dash came straight out of "Spy Kids." An extremely busy video screen displayed mileage, temperature and radio settings. In bright sunlight, however, the screen was difficult to read.
Little storage areas, 12-volt outlets, cup holders and cargo hooks sprinkled throughout the cabin and spacious cargo bay give the Axiom lots of utility and versatility. However, less thought was given to other items. A six-disc CD changer consumes most of the space in the center console. Only outboard seats have three-point seat belts and head restraints whereas other sport utilities have three-point belts and head rests for all five passengers. Though the Axiom is longer than the Jeep Grand Cherokee, it is also narrower so rear seat room is tight for three adults. Seat backs in the second row split but do not fold completely flat. No third-row seat, an increasingly sought-after feature in sport utilities, or side air bags are available. Anti-lock brakes are standard.
In contrast to most entry-level sport utilities, which use a car platform, the Axiom rides on a steel-ladder-frame chassis, like those used on traditional truck-based sport utilities. According to Isuzu, the more rigid construction makes it better for off-roading. The Axiom is available in rear-wheel drive or four-wheel drive.
I didn't take it off road. Nor will most drivers. Isuzu boasts the ride and handling are similar to that of European sedans. It was unlike any European sedan I have driven. The ride on the pavement was bouncy and noisy, despite the Axiom's being equipped with an independent suspension like those used on automobiles.
The Axiom's engine is borrowed from the Isuzu Rodeo, but it has been tweaked to build the horsepower. Power from the Axiom's 3.5-liter V-6 engine, rated at 230 horsepower, ranks among the highest of V-6-powered sport utilities and is only slightly less than the V-8 engine in Ford's new Explorer. Fuel economy is on par with other V-6 sport utilities at 16 miles per gallon in the city and 20 miles per gallon on the highway.
The engine is paired with a standard automatic transmission with systems designed to prevent hunting for gears while climbing or descending steep grades. But even in flat-as-a-pancake Michigan, the systems engaged too quickly and too abruptly when I drove up and down the slightest inclines. It was so noticeable that I thought the transmission was failing.
The Axiom proved relatively nimble for a sport utility but the steering was far less responsive than I liked. 
The Axiom, which comes as a base model or the XS, is available with four-wheel drive in either version. The Trooper uses the same four-wheel-drive system, which shifts power to the front wheels from the back when it detects a lack of traction.
The Axiom takes on some tough competitors, including two newcomers: the more mainstream, car-based Toyota Highlander and the rugged, less-expensive Jeep Liberty. Prices start at $26,505 with destination charges for the basic two-wheel-drive Axiom and rise to $31,305 for the XS with four-wheel drive. 
Isuzu takes on its competitors boldly. One entertaining television commercial for the Axiom shows Joe Isuzu in a parking lot dismantling a more-expensive Highlander next to the Axiom to find out what the consumer gets for $1,100 more.
The Axiom may be attractive to some beholders who want something different. But what consumers get for a little more in some sport utilities -- and for even less than what the Axiom costs in others -- is something Joe Isuzu won't find in his dismantling job: a level of refinement I found lacking in the Axiom.

INSIDE TRACK: Rough around the edges.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Isuzu Axiom sport utility includes an instrument panel with a busy video screen and sharp, distinctive body lines. (pgs. 1,4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); CONCEPT CARS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); NEW CAR MODELS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); MARKETING PLAN (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (65%); SUBURBS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ISUZU MOTORS LTD 

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



9 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Their Euphemisms Aside, the Analysts Are Usually Right

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT 

 BODY:
HAVE our elected representatives no sense of shame? A Congressional subcommittee began hearings last month into how conflicts of interest compromise Wall Street's objectivity.
 Of course, tainted objectivity is a serious problem, as acknowledged last week when the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an "investor alert" warning investors to be on guard against biased advice. But Congress will be hard-pressed to be a fair judge. In fact, some evidence paints a far different picture from what emerged from opening statements at those hearings. 
Consider Exhibit A in the case against Wall Street's objectivity: analysts' reluctance to recommend that a stock be sold. That, the theory goes, can be traced to the investment banking divisions of analysts' firms, which do not want to alienate companies with whom they have, or hope to have, underwriting relationships.
The circumstantial evidence is indeed compelling. According to Charles Hill, director for research at Thomson Financial/ First Call, just 1 percent of all analyst stock ratings are "sell," whereas nearly half are "buy." The worst rating that most analysts ever give a stock is "hold."
Yet is this any more pernicious than the grade inflation so rampant in society? Virtually no college student now gets a grade below a C, just as few grocers rate eggs smaller than "large." But most of us know that a C is a bad grade and that large eggs are the smallest.
In fact, investors seem to have no difficulty decoding analysts' euphemisms. On Monday, for example, Biogen stock fell 9 percent after Lehman Brothers downgraded it from "buy" to "market performer" and Merrill Lynch downgraded it from "buy" to "hold." Notice that Lehman did not use the word sell, and Merrill Lynch did not say "reduce/ sell," the rating it created in late June.
Of course, the real test for analysts is whether their ratings pay off for investors. If conflicts of interest have seriously tainted their objectivity, their ratings would be worthless. The evidence suggests otherwise.
In fact, according to the most comprehensive study ever of analysts' ratings, their highest-rated stocks have outperformed the market in most years and their lowest-rated stocks have lagged behind. The study, published in the April issue of The Journal of Finance, was written by Professor Brad Barber of the University of California at Davis and three co-authors from Stanford and the University of California at Berkeley.
Using data from First Call and Zacks Investment Research, the professors studied more than a half-million recommendations from 1986 to 2000 by more than 4,000 brokerage-firm analysts. They constructed a consensus recommendation for each stock, then used the consensus recommendations to create five portfolios. Portfolio 1 contained the approximately 20 percent of stocks whose consensus recommendations were the most favorable, while Portfolio 5 contained those that were least favorable.
The results were impressive for the 14 years through 1999. Portfolio 1 outperformed Portfolio 5 in each of those 14 years, and by an average of more than 16 percentage points a year, before transaction costs.
Last year was another story. After earning an A for 14 years in a row, the analysts flunked miserably during 2000, with Portfolio 5 making 37.6 percent and Portfolio 1 losing 42.3 percent. Still, 14 A's and one F isn't a bad report card. 
Of course, this result applies to analysts as a group, not as individuals. But the professors' findings are hard to square with the notion that compromised objectivity is the rule on Wall Street.
Investors can do at least two things to immunize themselves from conflicts of interest. One is to focus on the consensus among all analysts. First Call and Zacks are two sources of such information, though not the only ones. Another option is to demand that your analyst divulge his conflicts of interest and, if he refuses, to ignore him.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "On the Mark (Mostly)"On balance, brokerage analysts' remommendations proved on target between 1986 and 1999, before stumbling badly in 2000. Their highest-rated stocks performed well most of the time, and the lowest-rated did not. Graph shows the highest and lowest percentage change from 1985 for the S.& P. 500. (Source: Profs. Brad Barber, University of California at Davis; Reuven Lehavy and Brett Trueman, U.C. Berkeley; Maureen McNichols, Stanford University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); ETHICS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); GRADE INFLATION (71%); WRITERS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (54%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



10 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Polaroid Makes a Digital Leap, but Is It Enough?

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

 BODY:
FOR investors in the Polaroid Corporation, prospects appear dim. Shares in the company have dropped more than 55 percent this year. The stock hit $2.45 on Wednesday, its lowest level in at least three decades. It now trades at $2.60 or 90 percent below its price less than four years ago.
 One of the highflying "Nifty 50" stocks of the early 1970's, Polaroid, based in Cambridge, Mass., is struggling with nearly $1 billion in debt, weak earnings and steady erosion of its instant-photography business. While it recently unfurled new digital technologies and deep cost-cutting, there is skepticism about the stock's prospects. "The best thing for shareholders is to go ahead and sell," said Gibboney Huske, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
 In recent months, hedge funds have been shorting the stock and benefiting from the drop in price. "People think the company's going to belly up," said Ulysses Yannas, an analyst at Buckman, Buckman & Reid. But Mr. Yannas is optimistic, saying he believes Polaroid's push into digital technologies and efforts to pay down debt will succeed.
Polaroid's core business is traditional, or nondigital, instant cameras, including the I-Zone line, and instant film. While the company makes some digital cameras, it has been hit hard by the digital revolution and one-hour developing services. It acknowledges that its core business is declining, and Salomon Smith Barney estimates the rate of decline at 5 to 10 percent a year.
Staking its future on digital printing, Polaroid introduced two technologies in May -- Opal, for multicolor images, and Onyx, for monochrome. Polaroid is seeking partnerships to sell or license the technologies for photo-developing kiosks, hand-held printers and digital cameras with built-in printers. Onyx is to be commercially available by year-end, and Opal in 2002.
But Polaroid faces rivals with deeper pockets -- companies like Hewlett-Packard and Eastman Kodak. "There's skepticism as to how soon Opal and Onyx can turn things around," said Jonathan Rosenzweig, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
The most pressing concern for investors is Polaroid's $549 million in short-term debt, as of May 6. (It also has $424 million in long-term obligations.) The company must refinance a $350 million bank credit line, about 90 percent of which it has tapped, at the end of December or risk default. According to a June 14 commentary by Moody's Investors Service, "refinancing will be challenging," mostly because of Polaroid's weak earnings and current lack of digital partnerships.
Polaroid's sales have declined in the soft economy, and the company had an operating loss of $38 million, or 85 cents a share, in the first quarter. It has said it expects the second quarter, for which it will announce results on July 18, to look much the same.
John Moore, an analyst at Moody's, said that it gives bonds like Polaroid's a Caa3 or speculative rating as a signal that they can end up in default. The company's bank debt, which has a repayment priority above Polaroid's bonds, recently was offered at 90 cents on the dollar.
Concerns about the cash crunch are not lost on Gary T. DiCamillo, Polaroid's chief executive. "Clearly, there's some nervousness in the market," he said. "Right now, our focus is cash flow."
He added, "I believe that Polaroid's long-term success will be fueled by Opal and Onyx and by an overall strategy linking them to the explosive growth of digital imaging."
Polaroid has scrapped its dividend and will reduce its work force this year and next by nearly 3,000 people, or more than 35 percent of its total, to around 5,500. But the layoffs and other belt-tightening measures, announced on June 13 as part of a restructuring, will not achieve their goal of reducing annual costs by $175 million to $200 million until late 2003, according to the company. Polaroid shares initially jumped 13 percent, to $3.99, on the announcement, but fell back later in the day.
"They can explain and explain, but they've got to execute," Mr. Rosenzweig said.
The company intends to sell its sunglasses business, and should sell its drivers' license business as well, said Mr. Yannas of Buckman, Buckman & Reid. Combined, those units could fetch up to $200 million, he said. In May, Polaroid sold property outside Boston for $69 million; it could raise $200 million by selling other real estate, he said, forecasting that the stock could reach $16 by March. "There's enough coming in to help pay down the debt," he said, citing, among other things, the asset sales.
But Phillip A. Titzer, a portfolio manager at Edgar Lomax, an institutional money manager in Springfield, Va., with about 718,000 Polaroid shares, said that even value managers like it were not inspired by the stock's depressed price. "We're not selling -- yet," he said. "But the stock really looks like it's going nowhere." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary T. DiCamillo, chief executive of Polaroid, demonstrated a new digital photograph printing technology in May. The company is trying to rebound with devices like its Modem Camera, above. Its core business, however, is instant-print film technology, used in the OneStep. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%) PHOTOGRAPHY; CREDIT 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP (94%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: POLAROID CORP 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES; 

PERSON: BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



11 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Training a New Generation of Workers in Alaska 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
LOUIS PEOPLES was a young man when he came to the Alaskan Arctic in 1977 to help build and then run the industrial web that pumps oil from the North Slope and sends it south to market.
 Now Mr. Peoples and many of the men who arrived with him are middle-aged and ready to retire. But, even though production from the North Slope is declining, there are not enough skilled young engineers and roustabouts to replace them. 
 The aging of America's oil work force is more sweeping and urgent in Alaska than in the lower 48 states because so many workers arrived at the same time. Now, they are approaching retirement together.
And the potential effect of the demographic pinch is magnified because the North Slope produces 4.8 percent of the 18 million barrels of oil that the United States consumes each day.
BP, the North Slope's largest operator of oil fields, expects that about 100 of the 700 technicians in its blue-collar work force will retire over the next two years. Industry experts estimate that there are about 1,000 such workers over all in Alaska, and that perhaps 300 of them will retire or quit in the next decade.
To try to avoid the damage that such an exodus could do to production, BP led an industry effort to develop a two-year training program, called the Alaska Process Industries Consortium, at the University of Alaska campuses in Anchorage, Fairbanks and Kenai. Ann Spohnholz, executive director of the program, said she did not know how much the oil companies had invested in the program, but did say that the time that oil company employees worked on the curriculum was worth "millions of dollars."
Students in the program study subjects like chemistry and physics and learn how to run the equipment and systems that pump and transport oil. BP offers scholarships to cover classroom tuition and arranges student internships on the North Slope.
About 200 people are enrolled in the two-year program; 19 percent of them are women. The first 30 technicians are scheduled to graduate from the course in December.
The company is focused on hiring Alaskans because young people eager for high-paying jobs no longer migrate to Alaska from the rest of the country, as they did in the 1970's. And it must train unskilled workers because wholesale layoffs of experienced oil workers in the 1980's and 90's means that there are few veterans available for Alaska now. Mr. Peoples, now 55, has trained two new hires as he prepares to leave. 
Though the Alaskan economy relies heavily on oil -- it accounts for 80 percent of state revenue -- BP officials say they are convinced that many people in the state are not aware of the range of jobs in the industry. To try to educate them, BP has established mentoring programs for young people from colleges down to elementary school.
A FORMER maintenance worker in oil fields, Kelley Griffin, hopes to land a technician job at BP. She spent last fall serving an internship at BP's Endicott field, which sits on a spit of land extending into the Arctic Ocean. Like many trainees with BP's program, Ms. Griffin, 41, worked previously in low-level oil-related jobs.
Ms. Griffin was attracted to the North Slope by the same things that drew Mr. Peoples north from California more than two decades ago: high pay and the challenge of working in an extreme environment. BP pays its technicians $70,000 a year, and even the lowest-paying jobs at other oil companies in the state pay $40,000. In Alaska, oil offers more stability than it does elsewhere in the United States because the fields are already producing, and people are needed to keep them going.
Ms. Griffin said it was unlikely that she would defect to another industry after she graduated from the program, as oil hands in the lower 48 sometimes do. "I like working with stuff that you can take apart and put together again," she said. "Besides, I learned early on that boys get to do all the fun stuff."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelley Griffin, 41, aiming for a technician job at BP, served an internship at its Endicott field. High pay and challenging work attracted her. (Michael Dinneen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); CURRICULA (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); TUITION FEES (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (65%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; SHORTAGES; VOCATIONAL TRAINING 

ORGANIZATION: BP PLC; UNIVERSITY OF ALASKA 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (73%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



12 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2580 words

HEADLINE: A Second Oil Shortage: Experienced Workers 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
FOR Pablo Hadzeriga to leave the profession he loved, it took a terse letter from his employer as he returned from his honeymoon.
 At the time, in 1992, Mr. Hadzeriga was a seasoned petroleum engineer who had survived several rounds of layoffs that had cost thousands of highly educated people their jobs and left many friends struggling to pay their mortgages. He estimated that his employer, Maxus Energy, had whittled it staff, to about 560 people from almost 7,000, as oil prices tumbled. 
 Then it was his turn. Maxus Energy mailed Mr. Hadzeriga a letter that began by referring to him as "a former Maxus employee." 
Mr. Hadzeriga found work again in his field with another company and eventually moved back to his hometown, Denver, from Dallas. But when the chance came in 1995 to abandon oil -- and the manic fate of working in a boom-and-bust industry -- he grabbed it. "It wasn't a decision about money: I took a pay cut coming here," said Mr. Hadzeriga, 42, who now works as a product development manager at a plastics company. "I'm leaving behind the highs and lows of the oil industry."
Now the oil industry is prospering again, thanks to a doubling of natural gas prices and a tripling of oil prices since late 1998. Companies are enjoying handsome profits and the breathing room, for the first time in years, to pursue new projects aggressively. But the bitter past of layoffs haunts the industry's thriving present.
As politicians warn of an approaching energy crisis, the oil industry is trying to avoid a severe shortage of its own. From the Gulf of Mexico to Prudhoe Bay in Alaska, from large multinationals to small specialized offshore drillers, oil companies are having trouble finding and holding on to the engineers and geologists who discover oil and the roughnecks on the rigs who pull it from the earth.
A labor shortage means that companies may have to postpone efforts to find new oil and gas fields while they wait for skilled workers.
"If we don't do anything about this labor trend over the next 36 months, things could get critical," said John Gibson, chief executive of Landmark Graphics, a unit of the Halliburton Company, the oil-field services company in Dallas. 
Like Mr. Hadzeriga, many who left are staying away, and few new people are taking their places. Oil companies have had some success in attracting unskilled workers, but a hole is widening within the ranks of the petroleum engineers, geophysicists and geologists who make the crucial and costly decisions about where to drill.
That highly specialized population in the industry is aging. The average age of members of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, for example, is 49. In 1981, it was 41. Yet oil's long downturn discouraged people now in their 20's and 30's from studying petroleum engineering and geology.
Already, new oil and natural gas projects have been delayed because of a tight market for rigs and labor, industry analysts said. Oil companies say the problem is serious, though few will acknowledge that they have difficulty themselves in attracting qualified workers, for fear of looking troubled to their competitors and Wall Street.
Those willing to talk are trying to avert a crisis. Exxon Mobil is heavily recruiting engineers and geologists from universities again. BP has developed an associate degree program with the University of Alaska to train students to replace the blue-collar workers who will soon be retiring from fields in the Alaskan North Slope. And Global Marine Inc., the deepwater drilling outfit, is recruiting within the military for reliable workers.
"On the professional engineering side, there's a shortage industrywide," said Sheldon Erikson, chairman of the Cooper Cameron Corporation, a $2 billion oil-field services company in Houston. "People are feeling it because business has picked up, especially in the offshore market. We're looking at a pretty empty barrel now."
Twenty years ago, the oil industry promised good pay and bountiful work for young men -- and a smattering of women -- who had a taste for science and adventure. Mr. Hadzeriga, the son of a chemical engineer, had traveled to three continents and studied five languages by the time he was 20. And he believed that a degree in petroleum engineering might take him someday to places where he could use his Spanish, Arabic or Russian.
"I sold everything I owned, sold my car, said goodbye to everybody," he recalled of his departure for a job in Angola in 1983, just after he graduated from the Colorado School of Mines. "I was out to see the big huge world."
At that time, the oil industry was flush with cash and convinced that oil prices would stay high for years. But growing supplies and flat demand led to a depression in the industry that took hold in 1986 and only began to lift a year ago. According to the American Petroleum Institute, about 754,500 people worked in exploration and production, arguably the most crucial part of the oil industry, in 1982. As of last month, the number had almost halved, to 336,400. From 1997 to 1999, the oil and gas industry shed 60,000 exploration and production jobs, mainly because of low oil prices, said Ron Planting, an analyst at the Petroleum Institute.
Some companies bucked the trend and held on to employees. Anadarko Petroleum, a $14 billion independent exploration and production company in Houston, resisted staff cutbacks, as did the Rowan Companies, a major drilling contractor also in Houston. Global Marine chose salary cuts over layoffs. Because the company retained younger workers, the average age of its work force is 36 -- the same as it was 10 years ago.
"Layoffs look good to shareholders at a particular time, but they harm long-term development," said Edward E. Thiele, chief financial officer at Rowan. "You train all these people and then you lay them off, and then you have to train new people all over again."
Most companies succumbed to the pressure to pare their work forces, but many layoff victims do not return. Companies often shed a greater proportion of older engineers and geologists through early retirement packages and nurtured a younger, cheaper crop of professionals. Those people are now middle-aged, however, and many have the savings to retire by 55.
THE "graying" of the oil industry has become so pronounced that in seven years, the sector could lose 40 percent to 60 percent of its work force to retirement, according to an informal survey that Mr. Gibson conducted 18 months ago of his firm's main clients, which include some of the country's biggest oil companies.
Mr. Gibson said some companies were still debating how severe the labor drought might be and remained convinced that machines would fill the gap. New technology has clearly reduced the number of people required for many jobs. Automated rig handling, for example, has cut the number of roughnecks needed to drill wells. Three-dimensional seismic studies of oil and gas reservoirs help the industry better identify the most promising places to drill. Companies now drill fewer exploratory wells, which means that they need fewer people.
But oil companies need geophysicists, geologists and petroleum engineers to use that technology and interpret its complex data. And there will be fewer of those people to go around.
"Oil and gas is first found in people's minds," said Harold M. Korell, chief executive of the Southwestern Energy Company, an independent natural gas exploration company in Houston. "You need the people to pull all the data together and figure out where to drill. Five or 10 years from now, these 50-year-olds will be 60. Who will replace them?"
Sons of oilmen once followed their fathers into the field. But a whole generation came of age in the mid-1980's in places like Houston and Dallas and watched their fathers lose their jobs and their families lose their homes. Alumni of the Colorado School of Mines -- which along with Texas A&M and the University of Texas is a top school for oil-industry engineers and scientists -- have told Ron Brummett, the director of the college's career center, that they advise their children to avoid the industry and to choose more stable work. When Mr. Gibson recently asked a room of 400 industry middle managers how many would encourage their children to enter the oil business, he said, about five people raised their hands.
While the industry faltered in the 1990's, the rest of the American economy boomed. Young people were lured by new-economy promises of more relaxed places to work, high-technology equipment to play with, and the potential to become instant millionaires -- at least on paper.
"Our industry has an image problem that comes from a lack of getting the message out," said R. D. Blue, manager for domestic recruiting and employment at Exxon Mobil. Many young people dismiss the oil business as a low-tech part of the old economy, he said, but "nothing could be farther from the truth."
IN 1986, 102 students graduated from the Colorado School of Mines with bachelor's degrees in petroleum engineering; in 2001, there were 34. At the University of Texas, about 180 petroleum engineering students graduated in 1982, compared with 34 this year. Ekwere J. Peters, the department chairman at Texas, estimated that a total of about 300 students nationwide graduated with bachelor of science degrees in the major last year. That, he added, would not be enough to meet demand in the oil labor market.
The tight supply of engineers and so-called geoscientists has driven up starting salaries. According to Mr. Brummett at the Colorado School of Mines, the average starting salary this year for its graduates, at $48,402, is about 8.8 percent higher than last year. The average salary for a geologist with less than two years' experience is now $59,700, versus $48,400 five years ago, according to the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. University officials and recent graduates say there is a bidding war for new recruits, with companies offering signing bonuses of $5,000 to $10,000.
The overall economy has now slowed while the oil industry continues to flourish, and college enrollments in oil-related majors have increased slightly. But those who are attracted by the money now will need four years to graduate. After that, it may take up to 5 or 10 years for the geologists and engineers to amass the knowledge they need to be of use to oil companies.
And for some people, money is not the issue. For all the hard work that Janice Rego put into becoming a petroleum engineer, she is all but lost to the industry now. Raised in Dubai and witness to the wealth that oil can create, she took the bold step of leaving home to study at Texas A&M. After pulling all-nighters in the petroleum lab and toughing out the grueling course work, she was convinced when she graduated in 1997 that she wanted to be an engineer.
Ms. Rego returned home, eager to apply her knowledge. But after only a few days working as the only woman on an offshore platform, she left for a job onshore. Then, in 1998, the price of oil fell to less than $10 a barrel; with layoffs looming, she quit the industry entirely. She returned to the United States to get a master's degree in business administration and is now a junior oil analyst at the New York offices of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, a European investment bank.
"I was the guinea pig, and I didn't want to go through that," Ms. Rego said, referring to her experience as a woman on an offshore rig. "Oil was all about learning and I didn't feel like I was learning that much."
THE labor market is squeezing the oil industry just as it faces enormous pressure to produce. The United States consumes 25 percent of the world's energy, and despite the sluggish economy, demand for oil and natural gas continues to grow. Oil and gas companies are increasing their exploration and production budgets. And they look forward to President Bush's campaign to open federal lands to further production. But domestic production may not improve significantly, in part because of the dearth of workers.
Oil-field service companies, which provide the equipment and services for drilling, are turning down work because of a lack of trained rig crews, industry executives and analysts said. The problems of these businesses, in turn, can delay the projects of the major oil companies. 
BJ Services, a $4.8 billion Houston company that pumps cement to shore up the walls of oil wells, has had to turn down work because of a shortage of workers. The company has recently been hiring 50 to 60 people a month, but that still has not been enough to tackle all the available work, said Jeff Smith, director for business development.
At other oil-field service companies, the lost opportunities are more subtle, though still noticeable. Cooper Cameron makes undersea equipment needed in offshore drilling. Like its competitors, it faces a shortage of engineers in some specialties. The experts in the field are retiring, and few have come along to replace them, said Mr. Erikson, Cooper Cameron's chairman.
"The number of projects you can do at any one time is limited," he said. "If we had more people, we would do more projects. There are large projects that are deepwater driven, so you have to be very selective about the projects that you want to do. You just can't go after everything like you did in the early 80's."
COMPANIES are now looking for ways to attract people fast, and they have had some success at the rig level. The answer, in most cases, is money. Nabors Industries, one of the largest oil-field service companies, has increased entry-level pay from 1999 by almost 40 percent, to $16.38 an hour from $11.49.
The lowest-salary employees at Global Marine are roustabouts, who get $30,000 a year, full benefits and a bonus of 3 to 5 percent of their annual pay. But the company had trouble finding good people within the "shore economy" to work on their offshore rigs. So over the last year, the company hired a former Marine captain to recruit among people preparing to leave the Marine Corps, Army airborne units, or the Navy's nuclear submarine fleet.
Jon Marshall, chief operating officer of Global Marine, said people with military experience are sought out because they are accustomed to physical work and are often more mature and responsible than those coming out of the local "shore" economy.
While the company is satisfied with the caliber of its new employees, it has had to increase its safety budget by 26 percent, to about $14.5 million, because of the large number of inexperienced people on the rigs, Mr. Marshall said. 
Indeed, safety is probably the greatest concern on rigs as more new people come on board, industry executives said. The number of accidents has not climbed, but most companies are spending more to keep the platforms safe.
"The problem is that you have inefficient crews, maybe because you're shifting one or two members from an existing crew onto a new one and the rest are green," said Wesley N. Maat, an oil industry analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "These crews are like a seasoned baseball team, with their own rhythm, their own karma. They work well together, except this is a much more dangerous game.
"Because what's at risk is your fingers, your life, and hundreds of thousands of dollars in equipment and investments. There's no way on this earth that you can replicate a rig hand with 15 years' experience, despite all the technological advances in the industry."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Xavier Scott, left, a roustabout, signed up to work on Gulf of Mexico oil rigs after 10 years in the Army. Many experienced workers have left the industry. (David Rae Morris for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Pablo Hadzeriga, a petroleum engineer, left the oil industry to work for CCW Products in Arvada, Colo., a maker of plastic containers. (Essdras M. Suarez for The New York Times); Janice Rego, a former petroleum engineer from Dubai, left the industry to become a junior oil analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 11) Chart: "Help Wanted"When crude-oil prices started dropping in the early 1980's, oil companies laid off thousands of employees. Now that the price of oil has rebounded, many companies are scrambling to find highly skilled people in the technical and scientific fields. Graph shows CRUDE-OIL PRICE PER BARREL (current dollars adjusted for inflation ) and the OIL-INDUSTRY WORK FORCE (exploration and production employees, in thousands) from 1981-2001* *(As of May)(Sources: American Petroleum Institute; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (65%); PHYSICS (62%); PLASTICS (52%) GENEALOGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: JOHN W GIBSON (50%) KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



13 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Richard C. Pell and Rudolph-Riad Younes; 
Julius Baer International Equity Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
MANY financial experts have been saying that Americans should keep their money at home. As the performance of foreign stocks becomes more highly correlated to that of Wall Street, so the argument goes, overseas investments do not offer much diversification.
 Richard C. Pell, co-manager of the $550 million Julius Baer International Equity fund, says such views are shortsighted. 
 "The correlations between U.S. and foreign investments are cyclical in part," he said, adding that "companies with local revenue sources or restructuring opportunities" do not move in lock step with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
The fund's performance appears to bolster his position. It has returned 10.6 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended on Thursday, compared with 0.4 percent for its foreign stock peers and 4 percent for the S.& P. 500, according to Morningstar Inc. 
Mr. Pell, 46, and his co-manager, Rudolph-Riad Younes, who is in his late 30's, are based in Manhattan and work for the fund's adviser, Julius Baer Investment Management, a unit of the Julius Baer Group of Zurich. They buy a diversified portfolio of foreign stocks of all sizes. Their investment strategy depends on where they invest.
"In Europe and the developed markets, we're sector-driven, bottom-up investors," Mr. Pell said. "We pay very little attention to the macroeconomic and the political environment. In the emerging markets, it's the other way around." In Japan, they use a hybrid approach.
They aim to reduce risk by limiting their investment in any single company they consider particularly risky to 0.25 percent of assets, and to 2 percent for companies with solid growth prospects.
The fund's sector and geographic allocations generally stay within 5 to 10 percent of those of their benchmark, the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe Australasia Far East index.
Emerging-markets investments are now 7 percent of assets and are never more than 20 percent, the managers say. 
Mr. Younes says the managers are bullish on Central Europe, especially Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which are negotiating to join the European Union and European Monetary Union over the next several years. "This means that the euro will replace their local currency," he said, "and their long-term interest rates will be more in line with rates in the developed markets."
In developed markets, the managers aim to buy companies that can return 15 to 20 percent a year over the next two to three years. They look for companies that are market leaders, are gaining market share, are restructuring or are taking other steps to improve profitability.
In May, the managers added shares of Munchener Re, a German insurer. The company will benefit from pension and tax law reforms scheduled for 2002, Mr. Younes said, which will increase the demand for savings products. He added that it should also benefit from a new law that will let banks and insurance companies sell domestic stock holdings tax-free; it can then reinvest the proceeds in its core business. Shares sell for 1.4 times price-to-book value, adjusted for unrealized gains, he said. He expects that ratio to increase to 2 in the next two years.
The managers first bought shares in March 2000 at 296.88 euros; the stock now trades at 324.06 euros.
Another favorite is Bank Pekao of Poland. It is a market leader in brokerage services and total deposits. Shares trade for just 1.6 times book value; he expects the multiple to reach 4 or 5 in the next five years. 
The managers bought shares in December 1999 at 51.28 zlotys. On Friday, they closed at 70 zlotys.
The managers also like Vinci S.A., a French contractor. Its municipal infrastructure business, which includes building and maintaining bridges and highways, has contract periods of 15 to 80 years and higher profit margins than typical construction projects, he said. The earnings margin before interest and taxes is 47.5 percent, he said.
Vinci's stock trades at 4.5 times projected 2002 cash flow, compared with a ratio of 8.3 for its peers, he added. The managers bought shares in April at 68.73 euros; they now trade at 75.25 euros.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In investing around the world, Rudolph-Riad Younes, left, and Richard C. Pell vary their approach by region. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Julius Baer International Equity" Category: Foreign stockAssets: $550 millionInception: October 1993Managers: Rudolph-Riad Younes; Richard C. Pell (since April 1995)Minimum purchase: $2,500 (Class A shares) ($100 for I.R.A. )Portfolio turnover: 72%3-year annualized return (Class A shares) through Thursday: 10.6%Category average: 0.4% SECTOR BREAKDOWNFinancial: 29%Telecommunications: 11%Energy: 10%Consumer staples: 8%Industrial: 7%Other: 35% FEES (CLASS A SHARES)Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.57% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); EURO (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TAX LAW (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); ARTIO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); JULIUS BAER GROUP LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BAER, JULIUS, GROUUP 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); BAER (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: YOUNES, RUDOLPH-RIAD; PELL, RICHARD C; GOULD, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); GERMANY (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



14 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: A Generation in Flux, Or Caught Between Waves? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The column was right on the money. In fact, having recently been liberated from a foundering start-up, I'm facing those very same questions I faced upon graduation from college during the recession in 1991, when the job-posting boards at school were suddenly very sparsely decorated. 
 Folks of our age faced a challenging time (at least those of us unsure of our true calling), sandwiched between the Wall Street raiders of previous years and the dot-commers who followed us. 
The column captured that spirit and longing perfectly.

CRAIG BORETH
Somerville, Mass., June 17


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



15 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Energy Crisis Is Just One More Thing for Brazil 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil 

 BODY:
This was supposed to be the year that everything came together for Brazil. Instead everything -- from politics to sports, from the economy to the weather -- has gone wrong. 
 "The very idea of Brazil as a nation makes me tired," the songwriter and gadfly Caetano Veloso complained last month in a much-noticed interview with the newspaper O Globo that reflected the piercing of the nation's sunny disposition. "I'm fed up." 
 The most serious setback is a California-style energy crisis that has forced the government to ration electricity. The country's 170 million people have been warned that even if they are cutting their consumption by the 20 percent that was mandated starting June 1, they may still face rolling blackouts and unscheduled power failures unless the worst drought in decades comes to an end. 
Even before the energy crisis, a wave of corruption scandals sapped public confidence in the leadership of the nation, Latin America's largest. A judge, cabinet ministers and two powerful senators, including the former president of the Senate, have been forced to step down, and new accusations of fraud have spilled out against the new Senate chief. 
"We're drowning in a sea of mud, and the people governing us don't even seem to care," said Mauro Miranda de Azevedo, a metalworker here in the country's largest city. In the daily Jornal do Brasil, the columnist Millor Fernandes asked: "In the depths of the storm, where is the helmsman?" 
Just six months ago, Brazilians were optimistic. The fiscal crisis that had forced a devaluation of the currency and general belt-tightening in 1999 was receding into memory and the country appeared to be headed for a burst of growth and stability. 
But signs of an economic slowdown in the United States, fears that Argentina might default on foreign debt, and now the energy crisis, have created economic uncertainty and caused foreign investors to grow wary. 
As a result, in little more than three months the value of the currency, the real, has fallen more than 20 percent against the dollar, threatening the anti-inflation program that is the government's shining achievement. 
On top of everything else, Brazil has also lost its longstanding world supremacy in soccer, always a psychological bulwark in times of trouble. The once dominant national team has been unable to beat lightweights like Ecuador, Canada, Japan and Australia, and as a result, the third coach in nine months has just been appointed.
"What More Can Happen?" the newsmagazine Veja asked in a recent cover story that portrayed a resentful member of the middle class made up as a clown. 
A rival magazine, Isto E Dinheiro, talked of "Brazil Distraught" and warned of what it called "the sentiment of depression and disenchantment." 
"I can't sleep anymore," the country's leading business executive, Antonio Ermirio de Moraes, told the magazine. "I've lost 10 years of work." 
Farther down the social ladder, the feeling of malaise is much the same. "We sacrifice and sacrifice in the name of a golden future, and just when it seems that things are starting to go our way, something always happens to push it out of reach," said Maria Conceicao Costa dos Santos, a hospital orderly. 
To outsiders, especially some of Brazil's neighbors, the disappointment may look overdone. Brazil does not have to contend with the guerrilla violence wrenching Colombia, the intractable recession crippling Argentina, the political turbulence that has unnerved Peru or the risk of dictatorial rule that the Venezuelan president has broached. 
Brazilians, though, have always been propelled by notions of historical destiny and national greatness that any American would recognize. But the confidence expressed in slogans such as "God Is Brazilian" or "This Is the Country of the Future" have now been replaced by a conviction that things are coming apart at the seams. 
"The future that never arrives is the great mystery of Brazil," the novelist and columnist Joao Ubaldo Ribeiro wrote in June. "Nobody has an answer. It seems that things are getting worse and worse."
According to a poll conducted in May, 35 percent of Brazilians have abandoned the belief that theirs is "The Country of the Future" and an additional 21 percent said "that future will come, but I won't see it." 
Of those polled, 43 percent said they were "very proud" to be Brazilians, down from 60 percent in 1995, and 77 percent agreed with the statement, "This is not a very serious country." 
The mounting sense of disappointment has settled in, and may stay until next year's national elections. The despair contrasts with the social and economic gains registered during President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's first term. Between 1995 and 1999, annual inflation was brought down from four digits to one, and Mr. Cardoso's prestige allowed Brazil to speak with a more confident voice on the world stage. 
"I voted for him twice, and believed that we finally had a government that was capable and worthy of this country," said Clementina Guarnieri Homem de Mello, a retired stenographer. "But really, at this point, I have lost all hope that anyone can run this country properly." 
With the atmosphere so corrosive, a lot of finger pointing is going on. The Brazilian press and even some in government have blamed the International Monetary Fund, arguing that a $41.5 billion rescue package that Brazil negotiated in November 1998 was too harsh, a contention the I.M.F. has vigorously rejected. 
"We don't tell Brazil what to do with the money it collects" from taxes, Horst Kohler, the institution's managing director, said in an interview in Veja. "The government decides the priorities." 
Mr. Cardoso's government is now warning that the situation may worsen further. 
There is talk of water shortages, for instance, which would be a blow to a nation that thinks of itself as the definition of abundance.
"This country is a rich country that can have a great future," said Adao Chagas, a street vendor. "But everything is going wrong, and everyone is pointing the finger at everyone else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A child plays among wires and poles of illegal electrical connections in a poor neighborhood of Sao Paulo. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); WRITERS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); TRENDS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); DEVALUATION (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); SOCCER (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RATIONING AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GLOBO PLC (57%)

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%) BRAZIL (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



16 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Nations in Asia Give English Their Own Flavorful Quirks 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
Wah! Government say Singlish no good, must learn how to speak proper English. It a bit the difficult. How can?
 In their latest initiative to perfect society, Singapore's leaders have begun the Speak Good English Movement -- a campaign to eliminate a rough-and-ready patois known as Singlish that has spread through their nation like a linguistic virus. 
 Their task may be tougher than it sounds. It is a fact of linguistic life that languages change and often splinter. Even as the English language grows more dominant throughout the world, it is spawning offspring linguists call Englishes. 
Singlish is one of them. So is Taglish, a mixture of English and Tagalog, the dominant language of the Philippines. There are many more, particularly in former British colonies like India, Jamaica and Nigeria.
"Singlish same for everybody," said Neo Lolaine, who, like other taxi drivers, is a virtuoso of Singlish. "Every Singaporean speak. Me too. It not a dialect or what."
But Ms. Lolaine says she sees the need for reform. "Because we a small country, cannot be not organized," she said. "Strict, lah, is good. That why we have a nice city."
Throughout the world there are more native speakers of Spanish and Chinese than there are of English, but English is the world's dominant second language, by far.
Today, 350 million people are native English speakers, but by some counts more than a billion speak at least some English as a second language. Most of them are in Asia.
And as with Western music, fashion, food and politics, Asians are appropriating the language, remaking it in their own image.
"Now it's not native speakers that are moving English forward," said Larry E. Smith, an expert on international English at the East-West Center in Honolulu. "It's the nonnative speakers, the people in Singapore, the people in Malaysia."
Standard English is the common language of Singapore's multi-ethnic population of 4 million, one of four official languages that also include Malay, Mandarin Chinese and Tamil.
Singlish combines elements of all of these, as well as several other Chinese dialects. Clipped and direct, it embodies the no-frills essence of Singapore: drop particles, pronouns, niceties. Get to the point.
Got coffee or not? Got!
You have milk, is it? Also have.
Join me, don't shy!
Singapore's leaders, constantly remolding their little country in their own image, see danger here.
"We are learning English so we can understand the world and the world can understand us," said Lee Kuan Yew, the senior minister of Singapore. "It is therefore important to speak and write standard English."
Mr. Lee said standard English also serves as a neutral common denominator in the multilingual nation. "Unfortunately, if the less educated half of our people end up learning to speak only Singlish, they will suffer economically and socially."
There has never been a time like this when the world was so small, communication so rapid and the need for a common language so fundamental. English is the language of the Internet, of movies and music, of air traffic controllers and captains at sea. It is essential to international business, the means of communication between Japan and Brazil, Germany and Egypt.
In this regard, Singapore's attempt at linguistic engineering is admirable, but probably doomed, said Mr. Smith, who is executive director of the International Association for World Englishes and edits the journal World Englishes.
It is the nature of widely spoken languages to fragment into dialects, then into new languages, as Latin did into French, Italian, Spanish and others. Unless the growing interconnection of the world disrupts the pattern, this could be the future of English, Mr. Smith said. As they emerge, the world's various Englishes reflect the needs, personality and linguistic roots of their home ground. 
"I need Singlish to express a Singaporean feeling," said Catherine Lim, a prominent novelist.
How better to promote the English classes being offered in Singapore's new campaign than with this advice, in Singlish, from another taxi driver, Loh Peng Hong.
"You must go to study," he said. "Unless, people want to talk you, you not understand. People scold you, also not understand."
Or, as Prince Charles of Britain put it in the best Queen's English, "I think we have to be a bit careful, otherwise the whole thing could get rather a mess."
Already, Mr. Smith said, there are millions worldwide who claim English as their first language but who cannot understand each other -- an English teacher in India, for example, another in the Philippines and a third in Nigeria. One might even add a fourth, a speaker of cockney English in Great Britain.
But from a linguist's point of view, Mr. Smith said, every permutation of the English language -- every one of the Englishes -- is equally valid.
"One of the things about world English, as a principle, is that English now belongs to everyone who uses it, not just to native speakers," he said. "So a user of Singlish is as correct as you are in the sense that he knows what he wants to say and identifies with his audience."
As English has spread as a second language, it has left behind its cultural ties to Britain and America. Most English speakers in Asia today use the language to communicate not with native speakers from the West but with other Asians.
"Today, fewer and fewer people think of English in terms of either England or America," Wang Gungwu, a professor at the National University of Singapore, said at a recent conference. "In a funny way, it is part of the identity of a new Asian middle class."
As the Filipino poet Gemino Abad once said: "The English language is now ours. We have colonized it."
This process has only sped the natural cross-pollination of languages whenever they intersect. All around the world, local languages are raiding English for choice bits of vocabulary, even as English enriches itself with foreign words.
An outsider would need a multilingual dictionary to understand Singlish. Makan, a Malay word, means to eat. Obiang, from the Hokkien Chinese dialect, means ugly or outdated. And from English, "last time" means in the past; "off the light" means turn off the light; and "a bit the" means rather, as in, "English a bit the difficult."
And as with any language, nuances in Singlish can be almost impossible to translate. When used alone, for example, the interrogatory "is it?" conveys a wry skepticism.
Ah Beng: "I got accepted into Harvard."
Ah Seng: "Is it?"
In the postcolonial years a half century ago, there was a drive in some nations like Malaysia and India to move away from English toward indigenous languages. 
Now, more and more, the baggage of history has fallen away, replaced by pragmatism.
English classes are one of the boom businesses in Asia, usually taught by nonnative speakers. From Cambodia to Indonesia, no education is complete today without the study of English.
One English-language newspaper in Thailand has a rule of thumb: If a government official or business executive does not speak English, he is not highly placed enough to bother interviewing.
When leaders of the European and Southeast Asian nations met for a conference in Thailand in 1996, the Europeans insisted on speaking and translating from a babel of their various languages.
Amused, one Asian diplomat told them, "I commend to you the virtues of English."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At this cafe in Palau Ubin and throughout Singapore, English takes on the characteristics of its speakers. (Ming/Corbis Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Map of Thailand highlighting Singapore: In Singapore, the hybrid Singlish is spreading like a linguistic virus. (pg. 12) Chart: "Glossary -- What the French Are Afraid Of"As English spreads around the world, speakers in many countries are reinventing it by bringing words modeled on English into their primary languages. Some examples: IndiaDo the needful -- do what is proper. "I'm sure he will do the needful."Prepone -- to move up a meeting, the opposite of postpone. SingaporeAction -- to show off. "That fellow always like to action, walking around with his Rolex over his shirt sleeves."Blur -- to not know what is going on. "He was very blur at the meeting." JapanWonchu -- I want you.Gechu -- I get you.Cho beri gu -- Ultragood. BahamasHard of hearing -- obstinant or disobedient.Play-play -- make-believe.(Sources: Singapore Tourism Board, "Dictionary of Bahamian English," by Dr. John A. Holm and Dr. Alison Watt Shilling)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGUISTICS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); MUSIC (50%) ENGLISH LANGUAGE; SLANG 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (99%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALAU (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NIGERIA (79%) SINGAPORE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



17 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Candidate for Teamsters Presidency Has Eye on an Upset 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, June 28 

 BODY:
In the most important election in American labor this year, Tom Leedham, a Teamsters leader from Oregon, is hoping to unseat James P. Hoffa, the union's president, by tarring him as part of a corrupt old guard.
 Mr. Leedham often suggests that Mr. Hoffa is all too much like his father, James R. Hoffa, who led the union from 1957 to 1971 and went to prison for fraud and jury tampering. 
 But Mr. Leedham's strategy of vilifying the younger Mr. Hoffa seemed to miss its mark at the Teamsters' mammoth convention here, with its sea of yellow "Hoffa in 2001" vests.
Throughout the convention, Mr. Hoffa's theme was the need to unify the union against mighty employers like United Parcel Service and trucking companies. But Mr. Leedham's focus was finding pressure points to weaken the Hoffa juggernaut. 
A big problem with Mr. Leedham's strategy is that Mr. Hoffa, after heading the union for 27 months, is, many in Washington say, developing a reputation as a power in national affairs. 
He attended a White House meeting on the Bush energy policy. Both parties have courted him, knowing his support and his union's 1.4 million members could decide dozens of close Congressional races.
His lobbyists persuaded the House of Representatives to vote overwhelmingly on Tuesday against opening the border to Mexican trucks. He has become a leading spokesman against liberalizing trade, having played a major role in the China trade fight and in the Seattle protests against the World Trade Organization.
Mr. Hoffa's supporters are treating Mr. Leedham like an irksome flea whom they expect to stomp on when votes are cast in October.
Although more than 90 percent of the convention's 1,886 delegates are backing Mr. Hoffa, Mr. Leedham insists that he can still win, saying he has greater name recognition than in 1998 when he lost to Mr. Hoffa, 39 percent to 55 percent.
With angry taunts, many Hoffa backers have called on Mr. Leedham to drop out and save the union the $12 million cost of an election.
"Leedham's running helps employers by showing we're a divided union," said Richard Volpe, director of the union's bakery division.
Mr. Leedham largely ignores Mr. Hoffa's national prominence, focusing instead on scandals. He also accuses Mr. Hoffa of negotiating bad contracts and of doing little to recruit members to the union, whose membership has fallen by 600,000 from two million two decades ago.
"I can't think of anything where he's moving the union forward," Mr. Leedham said.
To make his case that the Hoffa administration is corrupt, Mr. Leedham cited internal union charges that a government investigator brought last month against a special personal assistant to Mr. Hoffa and against a longtime political ally who heads the Teamsters in Chicago. The investigator accused the two men of negotiating a deal that would have hurt Teamsters in Las Vegas by employing hundreds of nonunion workers at half the pay guaranteed to Teamsters.
Asserting that Mr. Hoffa must have known of the deal, Mr. Leedham said, "It's really devastating to the union to have these close aides and allies of Mr. Hoffa charged in this manner. It could go much deeper."
Saying Mr. Hoffa was kept in the dark about the deal in Las Vegas, Chip Roth, the Hoffa campaign spokesman, said, "Jim Hoffa is committed to running a clean union." He said Mr. Hoffa had set up an elaborate program to root out corruption.
Among many Hoffa supporters, there is smoldering resentment toward Mr. Leedham. They say his focus is finding fault with someone they see as a labor giant. And they berate him for having been a vice president under Ron Carey, who edged out Mr. Hoffa in a 1996 election but was later expelled from the union in a campaign finance scandal. 
Many backers hail Mr. Hoffa for trying to unify the union, which for years had a Hatfield-versus-McCoy feud between the Carey and Hoffa forces. Several high-ranking Carey supporters now back Mr. Hoffa.
"He's willing to reach across the lines," said George Cashman, the top Teamster official in Boston. 
Howie Redmond, president of the 8,000-member United Parcel Service local in New York City that Mr. Carey once headed, also backs Mr. Hoffa, saying: "Some people say he's in bed with management. I see he's doing everything he can to get a good contract with U.P.S. He's fighting to stop subcontracting. If that's being in bed with management, then I don't know what to say."
With Leedham supporters disagreeing, Mr. Hoffa boasts of negotiating excellent contracts with car-hauling companies and Anheuser-Busch. But Mr. Hoffa's greatest successes seem to be in Washington, with, for example, the lopsided House vote against admitting Mexican trucks, in which 82 Republicans defied President Bush and voted against opening the border.
With many unions solidly in the Democratic column, Mr. Hoffa's strategy has been to make overtures to Democrats and Republicans. Seeing this, politicians of both parties, especially those from the battleground states of the Midwest, have maneuvered to win Mr. Hoffa over. 
"Any party or politician that fights for our members will receive our support," Mr. Hoffa said. 
During this week's convention, Mr. Leedham's supporters said it was antidemocratic for Mr. Hoffa's backers to urge him to quit the race. 
Sandy Pope, Mr. Leedham's campaign manager, said: "I am offended by this characterization that just by running, we're doing something that might hurt the Teamsters movement. In fact we're making it stronger. Every leader should be held accountable." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TRUCKING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (52%); BAKERIES (50%) ETHICS 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%) INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS 

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HOFFA, JAMES P; LEEDHAM, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



18 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: City Presses for Share of State 911 Surcharge 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE FLANDERS

 BODY:
New York City Democrats pressed in recent days for the city to share in state revenues from a monthly surcharge on cell phones that is intended to help meet the cost of handling emergency 911 calls. The effort follows Republican efforts earlier this year to address the same issue.
 Since 1991, every cellular phone user in the state has been charged 70 cents a month to help support the state police's handling of the emergency calls. 
 With the explosion in cell phone use, the revenues have risen to more than $40 million this year, compared with less than $2 million when the surcharge was enacted. The increased use of cell phones has also greatly increased the number of 911 calls.
Parts of the state that operate their own emergency 911 systems, including New York City and Long Island, do not share in the tax revenue, much to the consternation of local officials.
"This is about economic justice, and taxation without compensation," the city's public advocate, Mark Green, said yesterday. "This year the surcharge raised $43 million, half from the city, for a system which we don't benefit from." 
Mr. Green, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for mayor, is supporting a state bill introduced on Friday by five Democratic Assembly members that would require the state to return to New York City and the 31 counties with their own 911 systems at least 90 percent of the tax paid by their residents. 
The new bill follows a proposal in March by the State Senate's Republican majority to redirect one quarter of the statewide revenues from the surcharge to counties that operate their own systems. 
Democratic legislators from Nassau and Suffolk Counties have also been pressing for the issue to be addressed in this year's state budget.
Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said, "There are a number of proposals out there; we'll have to take a look and review the details of this particular one." State police officials would not comment yesterday on the proposals. 
New York Police Department officials reported earlier this year that the number of 911 emergency telephone calls had risen 20 percent since 1999, in large part because of the proliferation of cell phones. 
Now, a single car accident or other emergency may be reported many times by passersby with cell phones.
Officials said that at the current rate of growth, the city's 911 system would receive 12.7 million calls this year, compared with 10.4 million calls in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



19 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
When a Cruise Goes Off Course

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL; EDWIN McDOWELL writes about real estate for The Times.

 BODY:
EARLY in May, the Marine Expeditions cruise line, headquartered in Toronto, assured a Canadian newspaper that its problems were over. Those problems included financial difficulties that caused the company to suddenly cancel trips to Greenland last summer, leaving about 400 would-be passengers high and dry with vouchers for future trips instead of refunds.
 Then in early June, 27 passengers nearing the end of a two-week Marine Expeditions cruise from Dartmouth, England, to Reykjavik, Iceland, got bad news. Oleg Abramov, the owner of the ship, the Lyubov Orlova, told its captain that because Marine Expeditions had just ceased operations and its bank accounts had been frozen, the ship could not dock at Reykjavik -- unless its passengers and crew put up $20,000 for docking fees. When they refused, Mr. Abramov, a Russian who lives in Switzerland, ordered the captain, Alexander Babenkov, to sail to Gibraltar. 
 "Maybe he should have taken us to Iceland anyway, when we were only a day away," said one of the passengers, Florence Curnutt, a retired counselor for disabled students at San Jose City College in California. "But I guess a captain has to follow the owner's orders."

Clandestine Calls
But passengers were under no such obligation. So even after Mr. Abramov ordered that Captain Babenkov prohibit passengers from using faxes or phones -- he eventually allowed them to phone from the captain's quarters at $17 a minute -- some passengers made clandestine calls to family and friends on the satellite phone that belonged to Callum Thomson, a Canadian archaeologist, who with his wife, Jane, also an archaeologist, lectured on the cruise. 
Several passengers have claimed to be the person who telephoned well-placed Canadians, who contacted American and Canadian officials, who in turn tracked down a Marine Expeditions investor. The investor paid the fees for the Lyubov Orlova to dock in Dublin, which was closer than continuing to Gibraltar
When the ship arrived in Dublin on June 10, one day after the voyage was to have ended in Reykjavik, officials of the Canadian and American governments were there to greet the passengers. "A person from the American Embassy gave us his cell phone number and said to call him if we needed to borrow money," Ms. Curnutt said. Two days later most of the Americans were put on flights to Newark Airport and Canadians on flights to Toronto. 
Julie Maris Semel, a New Yorker who was the official photographer aboard the Lyubov Orlova, said the Canadian government and American Embassy had arranged for the hotels and flights. After that, passengers were on their own. 
Some international news organizations, as well as a few passengers, played up the situation variously as a kidnapping, a ransom attempt, a nautical hijacking or even a "shakedown cruise." But most passengers and staff appear to have had considerable sympathy for Captain Babenkov and the predominantly Russian crew. "In some ways they made the effort to be extra helpful to offset their own predicament and to provide assurance that there was no ill feeling," said the expedition leader, Laurie Dexter, a Canadian skier and marathon runner. 
Ms. Semel and Ms. Curnutt agreed that although the captain and crew were in much the same predicament as the passengers, they worked overtime to keep them well fed and in good spirits. And when Captain Babenkov went to the dining room on the last night to apologize to passengers, he got a standing ovation.
As for suggestions that they were kidnapped, Mrs. Thomson said that when it was announced they were heading for Gibraltar, "We thought that was great." When it turned out that the ship was going to Dublin, Ms. Curnutt said, some passengers began singing "Molly Malone."
Not everyone felt as sanguine. "We should have gone to Iceland, since it was only about 10 hours away, and the captain should have said the hell with the owner," said Robert J. Haddad, a retired video-store owner from Arlington, Tex.
Although the passengers were not in danger, they knew what could have happened under different circumstances. And some of them were well aware of Marine Expeditions' troubled history -- not just the cancellation of the trips to Greenland but that the current Marine Expeditions was a successor to the cruise line of the same name that declared bankruptcy last year. And a related company, the World Cruise Company, had gone out of business in May 2000 after stranding some 140 passengers in Tahiti on a round-the-world cruise.
World Cruise's principals were Sam Blyth, the chairman, who also owns a travel agency in Toronto, and Dugald Wells, president. When Marine Expeditions was reorganized in February, Mr. Wells became chief executive. He and Mr. Blyth -- who, according to The Globe and Mail in Toronto, had no connection to the reorganized company -- have been charged with violating the Ontario Travel Industry Act for not registering as travel agents or wholesalers for the previous Marine Expeditions. Another venture of Mr. Blyth's, Cuba Cruise Corporation, headquartered in Toronto, canceled its scheduled cruises between Nassau and Havana last fall, saying threats made it impossible to guarantee the safety of ship and crew.
Both men have publicly disputed the charges, and repeated attempts to reach them by telephone for comment were unavailing. But in a June 6 news release saying that Marine Expeditions had ceased operations, Mr. Wells said that the reorganized company had reduced total customer liability from $3.3 million in United States dollars to $1.8 million. Of that, all but $600,000 -- the amount derived from bookings made before Feb. 12 -- is protected through a combination of travel-agency trust accounts and the compensation fund of the Travel Industry Council of Ontario, Mr. Wells said. And he blamed a 50 percent drop in bookings in May -- which in turn largely reflected "concern over a possible North American recession" -- for these latest problems.

A Similar Situation
Michael Driscoll, the editor of Cruise Week, which covers the cruise industry, said Marine Expeditions was not alone in experiencing weak bookings. And while there was not an exact parallel between its latest halt in operations and what happened to Premier Cruise Lines nine months ago, he said, there were similarities. Premier halted service when creditors seized six ships in various ports.
The best way for passengers to protect themselves, Mr. Driscoll said, is to pay for cruises with a major credit card, sail out of American ports (where fares and deposits are covered by the Federal Maritime Commission) or, if sailing from a foreign port, seek trip-cancellation insurance offered directly or through travel agents by major independent companies; these include Travel Guard, CSA Travel Protection and Access America. If those companies don't offer the insurance for a particular ship, cruise line or voyage, "it's probably better not to take that cruise because it may be a sign of trouble," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Felipe Galindo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); HIJACKING (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; BANKRUPTCIES; CRUISES 

ORGANIZATION: MARINE EXPEDITIONS 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); ICELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



20 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO; 
Walking A High Wire Of Words

BYLINE:  By STEVE VINEBERG; Steve Vineberg is a professor of theater and film at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass.

 BODY:
ALAN BENNETT, like Dennis Potter, is remarkable among British dramatists in that his finest work has been done for television. The prolific Mr. Bennett, who received his training in the early 60's as a writer and performer in the stage revue "Beyond the Fringe," has written plays ("The Madness of King George") and screenplays ("A Private Function," "Prick Up Your Ears"). But it's his teleplays -- exquisitely sculptured, astonishingly economical, with a master's command of tone -- that place him in the highest tier of English dramatic writers.
 In this country, the prime venue for Mr. Bennett's television work has been PBS's "Masterpiece Theater," which televised "An Englishman Abroad" and "A Question of Attribution," twin portraits of the Cambridge spies Guy Burgess and Anthony Blount, as well as two of the pieces in his "Talking Heads" series. "Talking Heads" are dramatic monologues, from 30 minutes to an hour in length, performed by the likes of Maggie Smith, Julie Walters and Patricia Routledge. Ms. Routledge, whom "Mystery!" addicts will recognize as the star of the Hetty Wainthropp thrillers, plays the title character in the latest "Talking Head" to reach American audiences, "Miss Fozzard Finds Her Feet," which is being shown tonight on PBS. 
 The protagonists of these monodramas are mostly unexceptional middle-class Britons whose lives take sudden and unanticipated turns, forcing them to throw off long-held perspectives. Often the characters welcome the changes; they turn out to be game, experimental, in the happiest tradition of English resilience. Mr. Bennett brings a naturalistic style to the sort of dotty, upended figures who used to crop up regularly in the Ealing Studios comedies of the 50's, humanizing them, and the combination is sometimes hilarious and always affecting.
The suburban housewife played by Penelope Wilton in "Nights in the Gardens of Spain," for instance, forms an unexpected bond with a neighbor who kills her sadistic husband. The widow in "Soldiering On" (Stephanie Cole), accustomed to living well, endures increasingly straitened circumstances and increasingly disturbing domestic revelations but insists she's "not the type" for tragedy: "Not quite 'Orphans of the Storm' time" is her cheerful resolution. Miss Ruddock (Ms. Routledge) in "A Lady of Letters" is an interfering spinster who causes so much fuss over what she wrongly perceives as a local case of child abuse that she lands in prison -- where she makes the first friends of her life and finally leads a fulfilled existence.
Ms. Routledge's Miss Fozzard finds in her amorous podiatrist -- referred to here by the British term, chiropodist -- a respite from a tedious life divided between selling housewares in a department store and caring for her ungrateful brother after his stroke. Of the other Bennett monologuists, she's most like the alcoholic minister's wife Maggie Smith played in "Bed Among the Lentils," who discovers salvation not in her husband's church but in the arms of a married Indian shopkeeper. "Bed Among the Lentils" is the most devastating of the "Talking Heads" (and the most unforgettable, thanks largely to Ms. Smith's formidable performance, which is both acid and rueful).
"Miss Fozzard Finds Her Feet," as the title suggests, is lighter in tone. When Ms. Routledge quotes Miss Fozzard's podiatrist, Mr. Dunderdale, she gives his words a ringing, Churchill-like intonation; she repeats his resume -- he is, she proclaims, a "pillar of the community" -- with a mixture of pride and awe. And when she marvels at his placing silk handkerchiefs beneath her troubled feet, rather than the newspapers her last doctor had used, the erotic and the exotic mingle, as if she'd been swept up in an "Arabian Nights" tale, and she has difficulty catching her breath.
She finds in the formal yet audacious Mr. Dunderdale a consoling listener, tirelessly sympathetic to her tribulations with her coarse, unregenerate brother. And as he signals his agreement with her point of view, Miss Fozzard adds, "He had my foot in his hand": Ms. Routledge's grandiloquent reading of this phrase makes it sound as if he had lifted her in his arms and were carrying her across the threshold. Ms. Routledge has appeared in three of Mr. Bennett's monologues; this is the cleverest and wittiest of them.
It's hardly surprising that the performers featured in these pieces do such splendid work. (If we're lucky, perhaps PBS will show some of the "Talking Heads" that, in the United States, have been seen only at film festivals and in museum retrospectives -- episodes like "Her Big Chance" and "The Outside Dog," both starring the luminous Julie Walters.) Mr. Bennett writes brilliantly for actors. The language of each character is entirely distinctive, and the details in the narrative -- like those silk handkerchiefs -- are not only wittily chosen but dramatic, levers the actor can depend on to hoist the character. Another example is the cream cracker that a pensioner (Thora Hird) discovers under her couch when, disregarding doctor's orders, she dusts her own flat and winds up on the floor, unable to get herself up again. (In fact, this piece is called "A Cream Cracker Under the Settee.")
Sometimes these details have an anguished vividness, like the seemingly benign "sandwich" game -- one arm atop the other, pyramiding into the air -- that the pedophile (David Haig) plays with the little girl he's drawn to in "Playing Sandwiches." Actors must love discovering the mechanisms in these pieces. They're all moving parts, like superbly assembled toys. It was especially exciting to see Mr. Bennett work those parts himself in "A Chip in the Sugar," in which he played Graham, a middle-aged man, still living with his widowed mother, who finds himself playing second fiddle to an old suitor of hers who comes out of the woodwork and back into her life.
In the densely constructed "Miss Fozzard Finds Her Feet," Mr. Bennett rhymes his protagonist's connection to Mr. Dunderdale with her brother Bernard's relationship to Miss Malloy, the caretaker Miss Fozzard hires for him when she's obligated to return to work. While paid by Miss Fozzard for her services, the canny Miss Malloy manages to obtain a separate salary from Bernard for performing sexual favors. The financial arrangements Miss Fozzard makes with her podiatrist are also rather unconventional, but the relationship has a more satisfying conclusion.
The other motif that unifies the two parts of this story is language: even after he has pretty much recovered from his stroke, Bernard still stumbles on words -- generally insults -- that were once a common feature of his vocabulary, while the elegant Mr. Dunderdale remains delicately, deliberately euphemistic. "Language is balls coming at you from every angle," Bernard's doctor explains to Miss Fozzard as he trains her to coax Bernard back to fluid speech. Perhaps that's why Mr. Bennett is so charmed by language, why he treats it like a sublime puzzle, the most entrancing game ever invented.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patricia Routledge as a woman who is enamored of her podiatrist in "Miss Fozzard Finds Her Feet." (BBC Worldwide)(pg. 27); The playwright Alan Bennett in New York last year. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); PODIATRY (70%); CHILD ABUSE (64%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%) TELEVISION 

PERSON: VINEBERG, STEVE; POTTER, DENNIS; ROUTLEDGE, PATRICIA; BENNETT, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: MISS FOZZARD FINDS HER FEET (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



21 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Teenagers' Traumas, Without the Cliches

BYLINE:  By JAMIE MALANOWSKI; Jamie Malanowski's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the director of "The Visit," Jordan Walker-Pearlman.

 BODY:
FAMILIES with teenagers looking to test attitudinal fault lines (without imperiling health, safety or the family car) might profitably watch "Crazy/Beautiful," which opened on Friday.
 The film falls squarely in the tradition of forbidden teenage romances, except this time the divide isn't drawn between warring families or races or classes, but values. Unlike all those movies in which the parents of the virginal girl try to save her from the good-at-heart outlaw boy, this time the girl's parents try to save the boy. 
 Carlos, convincingly underplayed by Jay Hernandez in his film debut, is a striving young Latino from a poor section of Los Angeles who rises early to take two buses to get to school, where he gets good grades and stars on the football team and plans to get accepted by the Naval Academy. Nicole, portrayed in a type-busting performance by Kirsten Dunst, is the rich daughter of a congressman. Angry and rebellious, she smokes pot, has a drinking problem, sleeps around and, just to underscore the fact that she has rejected all her family's values, does everything she can to blotch her nonetheless ineradicable beauty. (Of course she remains a sympathetic figure, just as he -- of course -- avoids priggishness.) Heading in opposite directions on the big ladder of life, they meet at the fictional Palisades High School. Emotions ensue. 
Most responsible for inverting the usual convention is John Stockwell, 40, here directing his first feature film after two successes for HBO: "Breast Men," which he wrote, and "Cheaters," which he both wrote and directed.
"The early drafts were very traditional," Mr. Stockwell said of "Crazy/Beautiful." "It was a piece about an overprotective father who was guarding his precious white daughter, who didn't want the brown kid from the barrio to be with her because he was bad for her. I thought it would be a much more interesting dynamic to flip it. Also in the initial draft, her father was a very conservative, fairly bigoted West L.A. congressman, and I didn't know how that guy would ever get elected there. I thought it would be interesting if he was a well-intentioned, politically correct Tom Hayden-like character, who just wasn't connecting with his daughter." 
The switches imbue "Crazy/Beautiful" with a kind of disequilibrium. There is a scene early in the relationship when Nicole and her skinny sidekick, Maddy (Taryn Manning), drive Carlos home: two underdressed blondes in an open SUV, whooping down the freeway, Nicole wriggling on Carlos's lap, Carlos wearing a look on his face that shows that the part of him that's not ready for this is competing with the part that's trying to catch up.
Ms. Dunst's Nicole has a soft, hazy, kittenish quality that makes her approachable, but she's so heedless that you can't help but see her hardheaded father's point when he warns Carlos not to throw away his life on her.
Calibrating how far to go in making Nicole unattractive was tricky business. "There would be reactions after test screenings, especially from girls, that would say 'Eeeewww, she's a slut!" or "Eeeewww, she's gross, she needs to wash her hair and wear a bra,' " Mr. Stockwell said last month in New York, where he grew up. "That's precisely the reaction Nicole would have wanted from this crowd. She absolutely wants to annoy the girls who wanted to be cheerleaders. But in terms of the movie, it's both a good and a bad thing, because while it means the movie is honest, it also means there are certain people in the audience who just can't handle it." 
Ms. Dunst was Mr. Stockwell's first and only real choice for the role, although there was a moment when he had second thoughts. "You have to understand," he said, "there's Kiki and there's Kirsten. Kiki is what Kirsten's friends call her, and what she calls herself, and she's a sweet, upbeat 18-year-old girl who gets along with her mother, giggles a lot and likes to shop. And there's Kirsten, who's very driven, very ambitious, a sort of by-any-means-necessary girl who's been acting since she was 3. I went to meet her in Canada, where she was working on a teen comedy, 'Get Over It.' She was in full Kiki mode, wearing a little sweater set. She hadn't read the script yet, and she told me she didn't drink or do drugs, and I had read somewhere that she was a virgin, and I left very unsure that she could pull off playing Nicole. But then she read the script, and she called me, very excited, and said, 'I want to chop off my hair, I want to get a tattoo, I want to be brave.' "
Her performance has taken some people by surprise, and not all of them her young "Bring It On" fans. "Early in the production we got calls from people at Disney wondering whether Kirsten was O.K.," Mr. Stockwell said, "because from the rushes she looked like she was having a meltdown. But that was just good acting." 
Although Mr. Stockwell had minimal experience as a director -- there were no precocious student films or shot-on-a-shoestring indies on his resume, just "Cheaters" -- he was always the choice to direct. "He had a very strong point of view from the beginning that never changed about what this movie should be and who it should appeal to and how to make it honest and not pop," said Rachel Pfeffer, who produced the film with her partners, Harry and Mary Jane Ufland. "He was always trusting that a teenage audience would want to see a drama if it was done honestly."
Trust is a word that again came up when people discussed Mr. Stockwell's approach to actors. "The greatest thing a director can say to an actor is 'You're enough' -- as in, 'I hired you, and you're enough,' " said the veteran actor Bruce Davidson, who plays the congressman father, "and that's what John did." 
Mr. Stockwell says his experience as an actor helped create that attitude. After graduating from Harvard, Mr. Stockwell headed to Hollywood, where he proceeded to win roles of varying sizes in 80's movies like "Top Gun," "Christine," "My Science Project" and "Losin' It." He lives with his wife, Helene Henderson, and their two children, Celia, 12, and Casper, 9, in the Hancock Park section of Los Angeles.
"Having been an actor -- and not a particularly good one; believe me, I did not turn my back on a particularly thriving career -- and having struggled with directors who were maddeningly closed off and unable to communicate, I was determined to create the kind of open environment that I wished I had as an actor. I'm fine with actors. The area that was more mysterious was postproduction."
As it turned out, that area -- where editing takes place and artistic value is only one criterion that comes into play -- proved unusually thorny for "Crazy/Beautiful." 
With its portrayal of a sympathetic character who drank, smoked marijuana and slept around, "Crazy/Beautiful" would have almost certainly earned an R rating from the Motion Picture Association of America. "And the studio was fine with that," Mr. Stockwell said. "All the president of Disney said to me was, Please don't deliver a film that has 150 uses of the f-word." But the political environment changed while the film was being made, creating new economic realities. "It used to be that you could have an R-rated teen-oriented movie like 'American Pie' or 'Road Trip' or 'Scary Movie' and do quite well in a teenage market," Mr. Stockwell said. "But now, because of restrictions imposed by the studios themselves, they won't attach a trailer for an R-rated movie onto a movie that's rated PG-13, and they won't advertise an R- rated film on television before 10 p.m., and they won't advertise it in any teen-oriented publications. Halfway through filming, the McCain-Lieberman hearings commenced" -- the hearings held last September in Washington in which politicians from both parties criticized the way Hollywood marketed movies with violence or sexual content to children -- "and word came down pretty quickly that we were going to have to do whatever it took to get a PG-13 rating." 
So out went the scenes of Nicole buying marijuana, of her working a water pipe, of her candidly discussing her sexual experiences. "You'll notice she never drinks in the movie," Mr. Stockwell said, sounding still frustrated. "She carries this mysterious bottle in a brown paper bag with her, but she never brings it to her lips. It was sort of tragic to me, because the movie is about a girl who is veering off the rails and who is truly struggling, and part of that is that she drinks and does drugs. I kept asking: Doesn't it matter what the overall message is? Doesn't the redemptive quality at the end mean anything? 
"And the M.P.A.A.'s answer is largely no. They don't want to be accused of being subjective. If the comedy guys can't show a party scene where kids are drinking or having sex without getting an R, you can't either." 
The cut that most pains Mr. Stockwell came out of the freeway scene. "Nicole is the sexual aggressor, climbing all over him, and says, 'Don't you ever drink?' He says, 'Never.' And it was all but a public service announcement for 'Just Say No.' He handles himself beautifully, he gets out of the situation, he's still a cool guy and the audience still feels like they want to be like him. It was practically a class on how to handle yourself, but because I couldn't show or even acknowledge that Kirsten was drinking, I couldn't show him declining the offer. It was silly." 
Mr. Stockwell was more successful in a fight to retain a scene in which Carlos interrupts their lovemaking to ask Nicole for a condom. "It made the M.P.A.A. very nervous," he said, "because they felt if you were going to get a condom, you were acknowledging that sex was going to take place. I made the case that here we have a guy who's demanding that they practice safe sex. How can we not show it?" 
The upbeat, talkative Mr. Stockwell doesn't figure to encounter ratings difficulties with his next projects. "Rock Star," a Stephen Herek film for which he wrote the screenplay, opens later this year. It stars Mark Wahlberg as a singer in a heavy-metal cover band who gets invited to front the real group. ("Much to my wife's displeasure, I actually sort of got into 'Hell Bent for Leather' by Judas Priest, even when I wasn't doing research," Mr. Stockwell said.) Also in development is "I Would Die For You," which Mr. Stockwell describes as a college-age "Fatal Attraction"; "Your Life Is Now," which he characterizes as a female "Graduate"; and "Surf Girls" about the burgeoning female surf culture in Hawaii, which he says the studio depicts as "Splashdance." 
"I'm very interested in working within the system," he said, "but more interested in subverting it from within. I like very accessible commercial pieces, because then you don't have to struggle. But then I want to do something more with them, make them more honest, make them real."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirsten Dunst and Jay Hernandez in "Crazy/Beautiful," about clashing values. (Will McGarry/Touchstone Pictures)(pg. 9); John Stockwell, director of "Crazy/Beautiful," in New York City. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FAMILY (90%); FILM (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (69%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) MALANOWSKI, JAMIE; STOCKWELL, JOHN; DUNST, KIRSTEN; HERNANDEZ, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: CRAZY/BEAUTIFUL (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



22 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3579 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Selling Big Dreams On the Potomac

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Elaine Sciolino is a Washington-based reporter for The New York Times who writes regularly about the arts.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE dimly lighted, demode Eugenia Room on the fourth floor of Sardi's in New York is not the usual site for an announcement by the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. But one morning in June, buttressed by six staff members, there is Michael M. Kaiser, the Kennedy Center's president, introducing three of the directors of six musicals by Stephen Sondheim that will be performed in repertory next year.
 Mr. Kaiser has rented the room, paid for the bagels, decorated the tables with white roses and peonies and affixed the Kennedy Center bronze seal to a podium. If he is put out that only about 30 journalists have shown up, or that one of the four Sondheim directors is off rehearsing, or that a fifth director fell through the night before, he doesn't show it. 
 The Kennedy Center's festival "will be unique in the history of the performing arts," Mr. Kaiser boasts, because it will be creating six new Sondheim productions. "It returns the Kennedy Center to self-production of theater," he says. 
Mr. Kaiser came to the Kennedy Center job five months ago with the sobriquet "turnaround king," earned after he bailed out the Kansas City Ballet, American Ballet Theater, the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Foundation and the Royal Opera House in London. By contrast, the Kennedy Center is financially secure, so his goal, he says, is to make it "a national destination."
People travel to Washington just to visit its monuments and museums, he reasons, so why not just to watch performances at the Kennedy Center? Just under three million tourists pass through the center each year, but they come mainly to see the bronze bust of John F. Kennedy and the red-carpeted, flag-lined hall of states.
The question is whether Mr. Kaiser can take the Kennedy Center -- with its reputation as a glorified booking house -- and raise the money, produce the art and create the buzz to make it a must-go-to place. To do that, he will have to turn himself around, becoming an artistic as well as an executive director. And he has never been an artistic director before.
"Michael's task is to build the uniqueness and quality of performances at the Kennedy Center," says James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank and former chairman of the board of the Kennedy Center. "If you are interested in ballet, for example, you have to be prepared to admit that you see more and better ballet in Washington than anywhere else."
New York is crucial to making the Kennedy Center a destination, and the Sondheim festival is a powerful lure. After the news conference, Mr. Kaiser heads for lunch with a potential donor, not to eat but to pitch. The man confirms his pledge for $500,000. (Anticipating the deal, Mr. Kaiser has already included it in his announcement that morning.) Another New Yorker gave $100,000 for the project even though he had never set foot in the Kennedy Center. More than 250 people, two-thirds of them from New York, have sent in $1,000 for tickets to see all six productions in two weekends. Already half of the $3 million to pay for the Sondheim festival has been raised.
"We are always making things bigger to the press than they are," Mr. Kaiser says. "That's our job. And this is a big one." Later, he says, "There's a P. T. Barnum element to what we do." 
He even seems to have impressed Russia's president, Vladimir Putin. "Now I've met both presidents of Washington," Mr. Kaiser quotes Mr. Putin as saying when they were introduced at a ball in St. Petersburg in June.
Yet some senior figures on the New York performing arts scene seem not particularly interested in promoting Mr. Kaiser. And Jane Alexander, the actress and former chairwoman of the National Endowment for the Arts, says through a representative at the William Morris agency that she "isn't interested" in talking about him.
Mr. Kaiser faces both structural and physical barriers that will be hard to overcome. By common critical consensus, neither the Washington Opera nor the National Symphony Orchestra ranks in the top echelons. (Congress's designation of the opera as the country's "National Opera" last year was greeted with derision in New York.)
The Washington Opera, which even Mr. Kaiser calls "a regional opera," is only a tenant; it rents space from the Kennedy Center, and Mr. Kaiser has no control over what it performs or how it is administered. Placido Domingo, the opera's artistic director since 1996, has a grueling global singing schedule and also serves as artistic director of the Los Angeles Opera.
"The opera company -- I can do nothing about that," Mr. Kaiser says. "It is not my right to say, 'Placido, why aren't you spending another week in Washington?' or 'Do you think that is the right production?' What I can do is bring in other opera." 
Both Mr. Kaiser and Mr. Domingo insist that they have a close relationship. Mr. Kaiser was once on the board of the Washington Opera; Mr. Domingo sang with the Royal Opera when Mr. Kaiser headed the Royal Opera House for two years before joining the Kennedy Center. But Mr. Domingo bristles at the notion of "regional."
"I totally disagree that the Washington Opera is a regional opera," he says in a telephone interview from Seoul, where he is singing with the Metropolitan Opera. "We are growing each year. You can see it in the artists, the productions, the publicity." 
Mr. Kaiser's determination to attend any event that can conceivably build relationships with artists, donors, board members, diplomats and politicians, and his fixation with detail, contrast sharply with Mr. Domingo's episodic involvement. At the Opera Ball in June, the Washington Opera's biggest fund-raising event of the year, Mr. Domingo wasn't there; he was singing with the Met in Japan. Mr. Kaiser, by contrast, dutifully attended one of the Opera Ball dinners. "It is not an obligation for me to be at the Opera Ball," Mr. Domingo says. "It's a social thing, and I am into artistic things."
As for the National Symphony Orchestra, which reports to him, Mr. Kaiser paints it in the most positive light. "There is a lot that is wonderful about the N.S.O.," he says. "And we're working very hard on it, particularly to upgrade the ranks of the guest conductors."
As the nation's official monument to President Kennedy, the center is a distinctly political operation. Congress gives it about $20 million a year for operations and educational programs. The president has a permanent box in the three main performance halls, with chilled champagne and M&M's emblazoned with the presidential seal. (The box is routinely turned over to lesser officials.)
The board of trustees is like no other performing arts board: 30 of its trustees are appointed to six-year terms by the President of the United States, often as consolation prizes to friends who don't get ambassadorships. By law, among the other 17 members are 3 members of the Cabinet, 10 members of Congress, the mayor of the District of Columbia, the director of the National Parks Service and the Librarian of Congress.
Mr. Kaiser's artistic goals may be blurred by his double vision for the Kennedy Center. On the one hand, the Kennedy Center must serve as the pre-eminent performing arts organization for the region, which necessarily means that much of what is performed will be derivative productions like "The Producers," the runaway Broadway hit that Mr. Kaiser hopes to present at the Kennedy Center in 2004. "We have an obligation to showcase a range of art -- ballet, modern dance, jazz, symphonic music, chamber music, film festivals, opera, theater," he says, "because if we don't show it, it probably won't be seen in this region."
On the other hand, Mr. Kaiser wants the Kennedy Center to play a national leadership role by both producing and presenting the most creative performances in America. Bringing in both the Kirov and Bolshoi Ballets next year is part of that vision. So are the Kennedy Center's own productions, including the Sondheim musicals and planned Tchiakovsky, Stravinsky and French festivals. "These are programs designed to capture the imagination of the arts community including the sophisticated arts community in New York and around the world," he says.
So will he be a presenter or a producer? He says he'll be something in between: a curator.
His formula for success is straightforward: create big projects, market them to death, generate excitement, bring in new money. To that end, he is blessed with an in-born, unapologetic approach to fund-raising. "I love fund-raising!" he exclaims. "I'm bizarre that way."
Mr. Kaiser calls potential donors "targets," but insists that he avoids "brute force" to get them to give. Instead, he sells dreams. Not surprising from a man who fell in love with the theater at a performance of "The Music Man" on Broadway when he was 4. His dream formula is based on what he learned from his former psychotherapist who "described therapy as a process of painting a picture," Mr. Kaiser writes in a yet-to-be published book about his life as an arts administrator, "Putting It Together." "Each session would fill in some of the detail, and over time I had developed a rich and clear picture of my life. The metaphor applies to my work in the arts."
Dreaming helped persuade the philanthropist Alberto W. Vilar to give Mr. Kaiser a $50 million house-warming present when he took over in February -- by far the largest gift in the center's history. 
"Whatever adjectives and adverbs you use to describe Michael, they must be off the charts," Mr. Vilar says in a telephone interview from Vienna. "He is such a warm, engaging person, he would look at you and ask: 'What do you want to do? What kind of 'naming' makes sense to you? Let's walk through the house and think together.' He is just so well put together in terms of the things you have to have to reach out to a major giver."
At the Royal Opera House, Mr. Vilar's "naming" gift was $18 million for what became the Vilar Floral Garden. At the Kennedy Center, $40 million of his gift will finance the Vilar Institute of Arts Management, which will train arts managers from around the world. The remaining $10 million will pay for yearly visits by the Kirov Opera and Ballet over the next decade. 
By far Mr. Kaiser's most ambitious long-term project appears only as artist renderings hanging on a wall in his windowless, temporary office: an undertaking with the Department of Transportation to reroute the maze of highways in front of the Kennedy Center and build an 11-acre plaza over them. The Department of Transportation would spend $269 million to build the plaza; Mr. Kaiser would have to raise an additional $200 million to put two buildings on it -- one for administrative offices, the other for a national museum for the performing arts.
Another crucial component of Mr. Kaiser's strategy is working the media. As director of the Ailey foundation, he pushed "The Phil Donahue Show" for 18 months to obtain a full hour for the company and negotiated a contract with the incoming Clinton administration to insure that the Ailey would perform at the Inaugural celebrations in 1993.
At a staff meeting in June (most likely staged, since a reporter is invited in) Mr. Kaiser shows how he is trying to shape publicity about the Kennedy Center. There is discussion of persuading a board member to arrange an editorial about the the center's 30th anniversary this fall with the owner of The Chicago Tribune. There is strategizing about how to get USA Today to do a two-page weekend spread. Finally, Mr. Kaiser wants America Online to put the Kennedy Center on its home page for the anniversary. "That's a big market -- a 13-million mailing list!" he says.
Later in the day, at a meeting (also possibly staged) with Roman Terleckyj, the center's vice president for artistic planning, Mr. Kaiser makes no secret of his displeasure with the quality of some of the productions. "The most popular person was probably the worst performer," he says of the recent fund-raising gala, an annual Ed Sullivan-like variety show and dinner that included a Russian ballerina, a teenage prodigy-violinist and crowd-pleasers like Art Garfunkel singing "Bridge Over Troubled Water." "I want it to be better."
He enumerates his objections to a proposed all-Richard Rodgers gala, saying, "What I don't want is just a C-list of people singing 'Oh, what a Beautiful Morning.' " As for a possible Prague festival, Mr. Kaiser says, "You're going to have to find funding for it because I don't think it's going to sell one ticket." 
Mr. Kaiser's congenial public persona masks a tightly wound perfectionist with an inclination to worry and a determination to have things go his way. He never eats during working lunches and dinners. He frets about whether his tie is too loud. He has turned up two hours early for important appointments. 
At the Royal Opera House, he brought a cup of English Breakfast tea to one visiting conductor before every performance. And he was so scarred by the technical failures at Covent Garden after its $360 million renovation that even now he stays backstage during performances. 
"Michael may have humility and may be gentle and charming, but he is absolutely hard-hitting in what he wants to achieve," says Anthony Russell-Roberts, administrative director of the Royal Ballet. "He's unsentimental about his objective." 
Mr. Kaiser, who is 47, says he has no personal life. He is close to his sister Susan, to whom he donated a kidney 12 years ago. Despite widespread speculation in London that he left to rejoin a partner in the United States, there is no partner, people close to him say. He unwinds by watching sitcoms and sports on television. "I am so pathetic that I even watch golf," he says, "and I don't play golf."
Addicted to work, he is in the office at 6:30 every morning and at performances or events five or six evenings a week. He spent his vacation on Mykonos last summer (his first in five years), writing the first half of his book about his 16 years running arts organizations. He completed it several weeks ago, submitted it to an agent (who is also a Kennedy Center board member), and intends to use it as a marketing tool.
DESPITE Mr. Kaiser's background in management, he is knowledgeable about what goes on the stage. The son of German-born Jews who fled Germany in 1938, Mr. Kaiser grew up in New Rochelle, N.Y., and learned classical music at Saturday rehearsals of the New York Philharmonic, in which his grandmother's third husband was a violinist.
Longing to become an opera singer, Mr. Kaiser sang as a junior cantor at his synagogue and spent his senior year in high school at the Manhattan School of Music. After a brief stint at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (his parents wanted him to get a broad liberal-arts education), he applied to the Manhattan School's college-level program. He was rejected. "I was devastated," he writes in his unpublished book. "I reasoned that if I were not good enough to get into this school, then I simply would not be good enough to have a career as a singer." He studied economics at Brandeis University instead, writing his thesis on the economics of regional opera companies, and later received a master's degree in management from M.I.T. A big regret is that he didn't study conducting. "I think I would have been good," he says.
A job hopper, Mr. Kaiser founded his own consulting firm, Michael M. Kaiser Associates, in Washington in 1981 and ran it from his Georgetown townhouse. A collapse from exhaustion in 1985 contributed to a decision to sell his business and become general manager of the Kansas City Ballet, where his annual salary was less than his weekly income had been.
After serving as the associate director of the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York between 1987 and 1989, Mr. Kaiser became executive director of the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Foundation. He rescued it from a $1.5 million deficit and unpaid bills, using sometimes ruthless tactics, including persuading the board (half of whose members donated only $500 a year) to increase the minimum donation to $10,000. 
After another stint in consulting for performing arts organizations, he became executive director of American Ballet Theater, serving from 1995 to 1998. There he grappled with $5 million in debts and back taxes, giving up his salary for a year and making hundreds of thousands of dollars in personal loans and then hundreds of thousands in personal gifts as part of his mission to bail the company out.
He then became executive director of the Royal Opera House, where, as the fourth director in two years, he was greeted by a $30 million deficit, a troubled renovation and hostility from large segments of the British press. The low point, he says, came after technical problems at the new Opera House forced changes of repertory and even cancellations of performances, including one for school children. A teacher assigned her students to write essays on "Why We Hate the Royal Opera House." One began, "Dear Mr. Kaiser, we wish you were dead," he recalls.
Wounded by the criticism and lonely, he spent much of his work day watching the stage from a small window near his office and helping with the scenery and sets. After overseeing the renovation, virtually eliminating the budget deficit and creating an endowment fund, he decided to leave. "He didn't acclimatize," Mr. Vilar says. "His friends weren't there. I wish I had been there five nights a week to have dinner with him." 
But some in the press recognized the viability of his reforms and regretted his departure. And some of his former colleagues find it hard to forgive him for not staying longer. At a garden party for the Royal Ballet at the British ambassador's residence in Washington in June, Dame Antoinette Sibley, the dancer, taps his hand with her finger and says, "You should have stayed another couple of years."
Backstage at the Kennedy Center the next evening for opening night of the Royal Ballet, Mash Corrigan, a stagehand, tells him, "What you did in two years, they've destroyed in six months."
"No, no, that's not true, Mash," Mr. Kaiser protests. But he confesses that he broke a pledge he had made to the board to stay until 2004. 
Mr. Kaiser has a five-year contract at the Kennedy Center, the first contract in his life, earning more than $400,000 a year. He talks about staying until the expansion is finished, which will take a minimum of 10 years. Even if he does a great job, though, he will still be doing it in a city where, on the list of what's important, the performing arts sit far below governing, politicking, lobbying and litigating.
"When people in New York think of Washington, they think of museums and stale government," says Eric D. Schaeffer, artistic director of the Signature Theater in Arlington, Va., who will be the artistic director for the Sondheim festival. "The Kennedy Center cannot just offer another touring production of 'Kiss Me Kate.' Michael's trying to change that with programming that's really exciting and challenging."
Tickets for a touring production of "Kiss Me Kate," which opens at the Kennedy Center this month, are now on sale.

How Managing the Arts Can Itself Be an Art
Following are excerpts from "Putting It Together: Reflections of an Arts Manager," a yet-to-be-published book by Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center:

THE KANSAS CITY BALLET
For marketing purposes, we focused on "Sleeping Beauty." We knew that there would be demand for this classic. But we also knew we had never sold more than 60 percent of our seats for any repertory program and that was simply not enough. Through discussion and negotiation we found the group that should be the best friend of every ballet company: the Girl Scouts of America. We brought thousands of young girls at reduced prices to the Winter Program. In fact, we sold over 90 percent of our seats and the final performance, a Sunday matinee, was completely sold out.

PIERPONT MORGAN LIBRARY
The Morgan functioned not unlike a 19th-century club. There was a palpable distaste for popular culture of any sort and, in a way, for the public. When we mounted a very successful exhibition of the drawings and manuscripts of Beatrix Potter, for example, the curators sniffed that there were too many people, especially children, in the galleries.

ALVIN AILEY
While many people knew the name Ailey, they were not really clear about the merits opf the organization and what it stood for. (This fact became extremely clear to me when we received dozens of letters of condolence on the passing of Alex Hailey, the author of "Roots." Many members of the public thought Alex Hailey and Alvin Ailey were one and the same person.)

AMERICAN BALLET THEATER
One vendor, a small shoe manufacturer, camped out in my office and said he would not leave until I paid him. He told me his wife and children were hungry. It made our debts appear so much more personal and dangerous than I had ever experienced before. I wrote him a personal check for our debt to him. A "friend" from a ballet-clothing supplier wrote me a fax to welcome me to A.B.T., and attached her unpaid invoices. We had run out of toe shoes and no manufacturer would give us more on credit. We had no Xerox paper. We took out every second light bulb to save on electricity. Welcome to the glamorous world of the arts.

THE ROYAL OPERA HOUSE
It was difficult to explain my loneliness to my friends in New York when all they could hear was the meetings with royalty and the dinners with celebrities.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael M. Kaiser, president of the Kennedy Center, in its Opera House. He saved American Ballet Theater and the Royal Opera House, among others. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Michael M. Kaiser, president of the Kennedy Center, second from the left, with three of the directors selected to stage new productions of six Stephen Sondheim musicals next summer: Mark Brokaw, far left, Eric Schaeffer and Sean Mathias. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Dame Antoinette Sibley of the Royal Ballet, with Michael M. Kaiser. (Margot I. Schulman)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) CULTURE 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (94%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (82%)

PERSON: KAISER, MICHAEL M; SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



23 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Sublets; 
Sublease Space Surges Onto Market in Manhattan

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
SUBLEASE space is flooding onto the market in Manhattan, as dot-com and telecommunications companies go out of business or greatly shrink their operations. According to a survey by Julien J. Studley Inc., a brokerage that specializes in representing tenants, there is more than 10 million square feet of sublease space currently on the market, compared with slightly less than 2 million square feet a year ago.
 And it is not just empty space. Many of the dot-coms and telecommunications companies were richly financed by venture capitalists during their brief existences, and they equipped their offices with state-of-the art telephone systems, computers and furnishings. 
 Unlike conventional office deals where a tenant leases empty space and negotiates with the landlord for a contribution toward building the interior, the furnished space is an attraction to companies that can save their share of construction costs and move in without waiting. 
The current climate of economic uncertainty is making these finished spaces all the more attractive, said Marc R. Shapses, a senior managing director of the Studley firm, who recently brokered a deal for Chanin Capital Partners, a financial services company, to move into 12,000 square feet of space at 330 Madison Avenue.
"In the climate of 2001, people are saying, 'Let's be conservative and not invest a lot of money fixing up space,' " he said. "In the late 1990's, people lost sight of expenses and invested heavily in space."
The space at 330 Madison, which is at 42nd Street, was given up by Cypress Communications Inc., an Atlanta-based provider of broadband communications services in large office buildings. Earlier this year the company announced it was scaling back its marketing efforts so that it would not need additional rounds of financing, which was becoming increasingly difficult to obtain.
Instead of seeking to wire buildings in 28 cities, the company said it would concentrate on only seven metropolitan areas, and New York is not one of them.
The offices, on the 11th floor of the building, are nicely furnished, with executive offices on the outer rim and cubicles for workers in the interior. They also provide an indication of how fast things can change in the technology business. Some of the telephones are connected, but others are still in boxes on the desks and it appears that the space was never occupied.
Sublets like this are difficult to arrange, Mr. Shapses said, because landlords have to give their approval of the arrangement in most cases. And many prospective users of the abandoned space do not want to become the tenant of a fading or failing dot-com or communications company.
SIMILARLY, most high-tech companies are not eager to get into the real estate business and would prefer to leave the space and their lease obligations behind. "What the previous tenant really wants is to get off the hook," Mr. Shapses said.
The landlord in this case, Vornado Realty Trust, was willing to restructure the deal, Mr. Shapses said, and Cypress was written out of the picture and Chanin reached a deal directly with the landlord.
Another complication is the size of the deposit a new tenant must offer the landlord to get sublease space. Many dot-coms were forced to post letters of credit of two to three years rent to get space because of their lack of experience and credit standing.
"Landlords do not want anything less secure, even if the new tenant has better credit," said Michael J. Monahan, an executive managing director with Insignia/ESG. He said the big letter of credit was something of a tradeoff for being able to move into space built at someone else's expense. In such a case, he added, it is important to negotiate terms that reduce the deposit after four or five years of rental payments.
In many cases, landlords are still collecting rent on space available for sublease, and they are reluctant to jeopardize the rents they are able to charge for space they lease directly to tenants by having the sublets offered as bargains. According to a recent report by Grubb & Ellis, the real estate services company, most leases contain clauses barring tenants from offering sublease space at a rental rate lower that the one stated for direct space in the building. 
Although the sublet space may eventually rent for less than direct space, this does not show up in rent statistics, which are based on published asking rents. 
Much of the sublet space is concentrated downtown, said Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner in Wharton Property Advisors, with trophy buildings in Midtown unaffected because their owners routinely refuse to lease space to any company without well-established credit.
The availability of sublease space means that some buildings that are listing only modest amounts of vacant space really have a lot more empty floors. For example, Ms. Colp-Haber said, the building at 33 Whitehall Street has only 3 percent of its space available for direct leasing, but when sublease space is added the building is 42 percent available.
Other downtown buildings with substantial direct and sublease space availabilities, Ms. Colp-Haber said, include 100 Broadway, with 34 percent; 75 Varick Street, with 43 percent; and 233 Broadway, with 22 percent.
In Midtown, buildings with high combined space availabilities, according to Ms. Colp-Haber, include 330 West 34th Street, with 30 percent; 9 West 57th, at 41 percent; and 111 West 40th Street, at 25 percent.
The flood of sublet space, which has increased by about seven million square feet since the end of last year, is affecting the entire market for office space and increasing the negotiating power of tenants, said James Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, a brokerage that specializes in representing tenants.
"Sublets have increased to 20 percent of total availability as a result of the stock market, the squeeze on corporate earnings and the bursting of the Internet bubble," he said. He noted that the increased availability of these spaces was putting pressure on landlords to offer concession to attract tenants even in the strongest parts of the city.
"Landlords in the Plaza District are offering $35 a square foot for interior work and six months free rent," he said, referring to the general area between Third and Fifth Avenue in the 50's. "Eight months ago it was one month of free rent and nothing for work."
Mr. Meiskin said the office rental market had been "artificially high" in recent years as dot-coms, communications concerns and other start-up companies scrambled for limited space in Manhattan. He said space in marginal locations, like downtown, SoHo and the far west side of Manhattan, will be unable to sustain recent rent levels as more sublease and direct space comes on the market.
"Space in downtown and 12th Avenue was never worth $50 a foot," he said. "Just a few years ago that space was going for $8 to $12 a foot."
Sometimes moving into prebuilt space can be a mixed blessing, Mr. Monahan observed. He said he brokered a deal under which Fulcrum Global Partners, a financial services company, took over space at 535 Madison Avenue at 54th Street that was once occupied by eColony, an Internet company.
Much of the space is usable as is, but Fulcrum had to go the trouble of demolishing some interior offices to set up a securities trading floor. "Usually when you start to demolish a space, it is best to blow it all out and start over," Mr. Mohahan said.
But he said the configuration of the building and the quality of the existing installation made it more economical for Michael Petrycki, the chief executive of Fulcrum, to retain the perimeter offices as they were.
"Mike decided to put his money into the trading floor and some supplemental air-conditioning and kept the rest of the floor intact, taking advantage of what was there," Mr. Monahan said.
He said the cost of building offices for Internet companies ranged from $125 to $200 a square foot, because of the need for intensive wiring and telecommunications connections. By taking advantage of what was already in place, Fulcrum was able to focus its resources on the trading floor and reduce its overall expenditure. "He probably saved $30 to $50 a square foot," Mr. Monahan said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Commercial Property column on July 1, about the sublease market in Manhattan, reported an outdated figure for space available at 9 West 57th Street. The building's owner, Sheldon H. Solow, said the correct figure is 19.5 percent, including both space directly available and sublet space, not 41 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc R. Shapes, senior managing director for Julien J. Studley, in space vacated at 339 Madison Avenue. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (79%); PROPERTY LEASES (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); EQUITY FINANCING (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); BROADBAND (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (69%); CITIES (62%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: JULIEN J STUDLEY INC (91%); CYPRESS COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (91%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (82%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



24 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Who Died? Me, but Fiddle-de-dee, My Chin Is Up 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA 

 BODY:
REMEMBER the scene in "Gone With the Wind" where Scarlett and Melanie huddle in a horse-drawn buggy at the Atlanta train station, frantically scouring the latest list of Civil War dead? Ashley! Ashley! Would his name be there? 
 Well, fiddle-de-dee, I sure can relate. 
 A few months ago, I felt a Southern swoon coming on as the chief executive of the company where I worked unexpectedly asked employees to join him in a conference room. On the table in front of him was the list of casualties. He handed out the list and, like Melanie, I scoured each name: Not me; not me; not me; not me; not me; not me. Me. 
Since that dramatic scene, I've tried to handle my status as a statistic pragmatically. Me: "Do you really think you're not going to find a job for the rest of your life?" Me: "Of course not!" So, because I have nothing better to do, I've been keeping a journal of the good days and bad days. Welcome to it.
Day 1: Who died? It's like I'm in the receiving line at a funeral home. Co-workers are coming up to me, taking my hands in theirs, and looking deep into my eyes. I'm sure they are sincere in their sympathy. But, come on, I know what they're thinking, "Phew, better her than me!"
Day 8: I arrive 10 minutes late for a company-sponsored workshop with a career counselor. I am stressed. So, I take it as a good sign that the first session is, "How to Manage Stress After Being Laid Off." The counselor brings me up to speed: "We're all talking about the things we'll miss about our jobs." I immediately think: money, self-esteem, and health insurance. She has already written on the board the first three things that came to mind for my colleagues: Starbucks coffee, free soda, and long-distance phone calls. Hello? Did our careers not just nose dive? Or did we all lose a really neat baby-sitting gig?
Day 9: A co-worker loans me her copy of "Who Moved My Cheese?" the best-selling parable about two mice, Sniff and Scurry, and two "littlepeople," Hem and Haw, who react differently when their cheese -- a metaphor for whatever you want in life -- is gone. There is no doubt that I am Sniff, the superior mouse who was ready to find new cheese the minute he found out his old cheese was gone. I ask my husband to read the book so we can discuss it. 
Day 10: I have an argument with my husband at the breakfast table. He said he is Sniff because he saw all this coming and tried to warn me. He then melts my cheddar by saying I am so Hem, who is so taken aback when his cheese is gone that he doesn't do anything and almost dies of starvation. I return the book to my friend and buy "What Color is Your Parachute?" the career-counseling book, which I hide from my husband.
Day 15: The first recruiter to call me in for an interview took one look at my resume and said, "Right off the bat, take out this part about having 25 years' experience." Because? I ask. "They'll think you're set in your ways." Because I am set in my ways, I leave it in.
Days 22, 23, 24: The job offers are pouring in! And, I'd be happy with any one of them -- if I were graduating from college. I'm 46 years old. My salary hasn't been $40,000 since 1989, for pity's sake! Does anyone out there still have a nice, fat payroll? Call me.
Day 25: People say I'm not networking enough, so I send e-mail messages to church friends, relatives in foreign countries, even our veterinarian. In the subject line I put: "Will Write for Food." Here's what I get back: "Better days are ahead!" "These things happen for a reason!" "One door closes and another one opens!" And, my personal favorite: "Chin up!" But nowhere in these inspiring words is a job offer.
Day 32: And so it goes. It's been mostly good days so far, as I keep my chin up and search for open doors. As for the bad days: Well, frankly, my dears, I don't give a damn. After all, tomorrow is another day.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (71%); LAYOFFS (58%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: DIGRAZIA, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



25 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Round-Trip Retirement: Back to the Island 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

 BODY:
WHEN Ruth and Albert Ammerman packed their bags and moved to Arizona 15 years ago, they thought they would never see another Long Island winter.
 As a reminder of what they had left behind, the couple framed a photograph of the house of the president of Suffolk County Community College, where they had lived for most of the 22 years that Dr. Ammerman held that title. They hung the picture, snapped in the wake of a 1965 snowstorm, on a wall in their sun-drenched den. 
 Dr. Ammerman, now 86, promised his cars they would never have to endure another shoveling and scraping ordeal, and the couple settled into a new town house in Sun Lakes, a gated complex southeast of Phoenix with five golf courses, six swimming pools and 15,000 residents, most of whom built their lives and careers elsewhere before flocking to sunnier skies. 
But then things changed. As the Ammermans grew older, the sun that had lured them southwestward in the first place became oppressive. The four golf groups that Dr. Ammerman had quickly joined upon arriving began to disintegrate over the years, as his golfing buddies passed away, moved away or simply grew too old to enjoy the game. Before he knew it, only one of the cliques was still intact, and Dr. Ammerman's own skills were diminishing, a development that saddened him.
Most of all, the couple missed their children, three of whom live in New York State, including one son who lives in Port Jefferson. 
So in May, the Ammermans once again packed their possessions -- which by this point included a Navajo rug and a modest collection of Native American pottery -- and moved back to Long Island. In June, they settled into a two-bedroom apartment in Jefferson's Ferry, a new South Setauket development that offers independent living, assisted living and nursing home care but looks more like a five-star hotel, with a winding staircase in the lobby and plush carpeting in the suites. 
On a recent afternoon, the photograph of the snow-draped college president's house leaned against a wall in the Ammermans' new apartment, for future hanging.
"As you get older, I think you want to be back home," said Mrs. Ammerman, 80.
Next door, Martha E. Wright, 82, who lived on Long Island from 1946 until 1989, was still unpacking the boxes full of artwork and sewing supplies that had arrived from Charlottesville, Va., a "delightful place" that she had decided to leave shortly after her second husband died. And in a nearby apartment, also at Jefferson's Ferry, Anita and William Kuhn spent a recent afternoon detailing their exodus from Long Island to North Carolina and back. 
"My mother and dad decided to move to Florida in '71, and they just packed up and moved," said Mr. Kuhn, 76. "They didn't look back." 
Most retirees who head to Florida or Arizona seeking sun, low prices and companions with whom to share hours around a bridge table or on a golf course, do so with the expectation that they will stay there. But for some Long Islanders -- a growing number, some developers believe, although there are no statistics to support the collective hunch -- this is not the case. 
Many retirees are finding the Sun Belt is not necessarily the paradise they had expected. In North Carolina, the gripe is about too many snakes and hurricanes. In Boca Raton, they complain that about uniformity -- too many old people just like them. And some retirees say that the older they get, the more they would rather be playing with grandchildren in the snow than sitting alone on a beach.
Long Island planners and developers say that anecdotal evidence leads them to suspect a trend.
"It was much more of a one-way trip 10 years ago," said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist at the Long Island Association, the regional chamber of commerce. Nowadays, she said, retirees are discovering that Sun Belt retirement communities are not necessarily the paradise they had envisioned. "They miss their families, their children or they miss their friends, or they miss their way of life here," she said. 
"I think there's some dissatisfaction with the public services in some of the Sun Belt communities," Dr. Kamer said. "It's starting to experience some of the problems of urbanization that we experienced earlier."
Peter G. Florey, the vice president of Benjamin Development Company, said that 75 percent of the Garden City company's developments were geared toward the elderly;, 25 years ago, the percentage was 25 percent, he said.
"I definitely think there's been an increase, and I think it's attributable to the availability now," he said. "A lot of the frail elderly who have gone to Florida who now need additional care are also coming back to Long Island because that's where their families are, and that's where they feel the best care is."
Roy A. Fedelem, principal planner for the Long Island Regional Planning Board, estimated that of the 178 Long Island housing developments with age restrictions, usually 55 or over, 60 were built since 1990. Twelve more such developments are under construction, he estimated. 
While the regional planning board does not track assisted living complexes, which vary widely in their offerings, Mr. Fedelem said that they were largely a phenomenon of the last decade. 
Gauging the number of elderly citizens who return to Long Island after initially retiring elsewhere, however, is a tricky task. There are no hard statistics, and it is a phenomenon that even the experts say is difficult to track for a population the size of Long Island's.
Far from being a novel development, "counterstream migration" is a prominent feature of migration in general, said Charles F. Longino, Jr., a gerontologist who in 1984 first documented the phenomenon of retirees moving from Florida to New York, using 1980 census data.
"Counterstream exchanges between states -- that is, migrants moving in two directions between states -- are extremely common among movers in general," said Dr. Longino, who directs the Reynolda Gerontology Program at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. "Apparently it occurs with older people as well."
In fact, Dr. Longino said, while substantially more people moved from New York to Florida between 1985 and 1990 than between 1975 and 1980, the countermigration had "leveled off" between the same two periods.
But demographers have not had the opportunity to study the 2000 census data on migration patterns, which are expected to be released next year at the earliest. Moreover, Dr. Longino's studies have examined New York state in general but not Long Island in particular. 
"The counterstream migration to Long Island may be increasing while it may be decreasing in other places in the state," the gerontologist suggested. But to the developers' suggestion that the building of retirement villages makes countermigration a more attractive option, Dr. Longino said it was more likely that the developments had enabled observers to more easily spot a phenomenon that existed previously.
"Before, they were just scattered out in neighborhoods," Dr. Longino said. "They just weren't noticed as much."
Angela G. Kubicki, 72, had always taken for granted that she would one day retire to Florida. But after five years in a Boynton Beach ranch-style home with a guest house and a pool, Ms. Kubicki and her boyfriend, Ken Doyle, have decided to relocate to the Hamptons.
If the reverse migration is not a trend, well then, in Ms. Kubicki's eyes, it should be. 
"All that glitters is not gold," she warned, talking on the telephone as she waited for one of her sons and his family to come over for ravioli and meatballs. Since Ms. Kubicki returned from Florida in early June, she has been staying at her other son's Smithtown home.
First, there was the frustratingly constant weather. "I decorated the house for Christmas and decorated with pumpkins for Halloween, but we had no seasons," she lamented. 
Then there were the lizards. "You can walk out and they'll be on your head," she reported. "I'm not exaggerating. They come crawling out of the air-conditioning."
She terribly missed her four children, three of whom live on Long Island. Plus, the Florida lifestyle just became too much -- or not enough. 
"How much can you go to the flea market?" Ms. Kubicki asked. "How much can you go to the beach? How much can you go to the shows? In the end you'll say, 'I can always go to Florida, but there's no place like home.' " 
Changes in tax laws, in particular the rolling back of the federal estate tax, may lure more retired Long Island natives back to their home turf, said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. 
"Those who have fled New York because of the tax issue can easily come back again, and I suspect they'll contribute to the reverse migration," he said.
Whatever it is that ultimately pulls a retiree back to Long Island, the unanticipated consequences of the return are often the most striking. 
For Dr. Ammerman, for example, the return to Suffolk County was a return to notoriety. During a recent hospital visit here, most of the nurses and technicians he encountered were Suffolk County Community College graduates, and they knew his name well. 
That sort of thing did not happen out West, Dr. Ammerman said, adding, "I became Al in Arizona."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After 15 years in Arizona, Albert and Ruth Ammerman have returned to the Island. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (85%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); GOLF (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); CHILDREN (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (64%); NURSING HOMES (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%) RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTED LIVING 

PERSON: AMMERMAN, ALBERT; AMMERMAN, RUTH; GOOTMAN, ELISSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) LONG ISLAND (NY); ARIZONA; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



26 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Computer Associates: 2 Widely Diverging Views

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
ERIC R. SKELL recalls the two years he worked as a network systems administrator for Computer Associates as a low point in his career.
 This is his account: He joined Computer Associates' Princeton, N.J., office in September 1998 and worked there until January 2001. During much of his time there, the computer industry was at the height of its Y2K preparations, and Mr. Skell was on call around the clock for most of 1999. He regularly worked evenings, weekends and holidays without additional pay. Yet when he asked to use two weeks of vacation time to return to his native Australia to visit his terminally ill sister in November 1999, he was refused. Postponing the trip, Mr. Skell ended up working required overtime during the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 Mr. Skell finally made the trip last July. "I got a phone call from my sister, and she said she'd rather I came now to see her than come to her funeral," Mr. Skell said. "I told the company I couldn't wait. When I got there she weighed maybe 90 pounds." 
His sister died soon afterward, on July 22. "After she died I told my boss, who said he was sorry to hear about it," Mr. Skell said. "That was it. Otherwise, there was no compassion whatsoever, not even a card, from any other manager."
Mr. Skell, 42, said he was fired a few months later because of an unsatisfactory performance rating, which he disputes. He is currently living on unemployment while searching for a new job. 
Asked about Mr. Skell's account, Jeanne Donovan, a spokeswoman for Computers Associates, which is based in Islandia, refused to comment directly. "C.A. always strives to be a caring and responsible employer," she said, "and many well-respected organizations continue to recognize C.A. as a top workplace for employees."
Bitter accounts like Mr. Skell's have circulated on Long Island and beyond for years, mostly in private conversations. When voiced publicly, they have invariably been denied with vehemence by Charles Wang, Computer Associates' founder and chairman; by Sanjay Kumar, Mr. Wang's protege and the company's president and chief executive; and by other company officials.
Now, a high-profile proxy fight waged by a minority shareholder from Texas has put Computer Associates policies, corporate culture and business reputation at the center of a very public campaign aimed at prying control of the world's fourth-largest software company out of the hands of Mr. Wang and the directors who support him. 
"Employees are abused, and this is widely known on Long Island and elsewhere," said Sam Wyly, a founder of Sterling Software in Dallas who sold his company to Computer Associates in April 2000 in a stock transaction. Two weeks ago, he announced plans to challenge Mr. Wang by nominating an independent slate of candidates for Computer Associates directors, to be elected at the shareholders' meeting on Aug. 29.
What Mr. Wyly called the company's "pervasive culture of fear and intimidation" has "abused and alienated" not only its 18,000 employees worldwide, but customers and shareholders as well, he said in statement. "At the same time," the Wyly statement continued, "management's use of accounting gimmicks and its excessive compensation for lackluster performance have strained its credibility with the financial community."
Mr. Wyly said a survey he commissioned from a polling firm in Manhattan showed that 46 percent of Computer Associates' customers would like to end their relationship with the company and that only a third of its customers believe the company is honest. The survey was conducted by Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates, which interviewed 76 men and women selected at random from a list of Fortune 1000 executives. As it turned out, 52 of the executives work for companies that are current Computer Associates customers, 8 were former customers and 16 of the companies have never brought from Computer Associates. The interviews were conducted by telephone June 11 through 15; the margin of sampling error is plus or minus 10 percentage points.
Computer Associates challenged the results of the survey in a statement issued on Tuesday, calling the research "fundamentally flawed and self-serving." 
Mr. Kumar said in the Tuesday statement that "good enough is never good enough" and that the company had made "significant strides in recent years" in focusing on customer needs.
Mr. Wyly has accused the company's directors of neglecting their responsibilities by approving incentive pay for the company's senior executives while investment returns lagged behind the rest of the industry.
Mr. Wyly's accusations have resonated widely. Most of the Island's power brokers have kept their distance from the battle. Calls to two Computer Associates board members with close ties to Mr. Wang, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Shirley Strum Kenny, the president of the State University at New York at Stony Brook, were unavailing. Mr. D'Amato said through a spokesman last week that he would have no comment, and Dr. Kenny's office said that she was out of town and not available. 
E. Christopher Murray, a partner in the Garden City law firm of Reisman, Peirez & Reisman, said he was forming a coalition to defend Computer Associates from what he described as "strategic damage to the region's economy" if Mr. Wang's directors were ousted. Mr. Murray said last Wednesday that five groups, including the Long Island Association, the Association for a Better Long Island and the Long Island Philharmonic, had joined the coalition.
"Regardless of how you feel about the company or its corporate culture, they are a critical component of Long Island's 21st-century economy," Mr. Murray said.
If Mr. Wyly's candidates are elected to the board, "it would have a profound and negative impact throughout the region equivalent to Grumman's shutting down at the height of the cold war," he added.
Savio Chan, a vice president of Invision, a software and Internet company in Commack, said that Mr. Wang in particular was a motivational leader.
"He is very supportive of Chinese-American entrepreneurs," said Mr. Chan, 37, who recalled that Mr. Wang encouraged him to open his own computer store 12 years ago and even arrived without fanfare one Sunday to see the store for himself. "He inspires many people to take action, to become entrepreneurs and then give back to charity themselves, as he does."
James Citrin, a management consultant who praised Computer Associates in his book, "Lessons From the Top: 50 Most Successful Business Leaders in America" (Doubleday, 2001), described Mr. Wang as a sensitive, likable man concerned with philosophical issues and community service. "There is a real contrast between Charles Wang personally and the organizational culture of Computer Associates," Mr. Citrin said.
Observing that the company's growth has largely come through strategic acquisitions, Mr. Citrin said: "In many cases acquisitions are handled without attention to the emotional and human needs of employees. Often, everybody other than the sales force is let go."
In his book, researched during the late 90's, Mr. Citrin presents Mr. Wang as a visionary leader and exceptional communicator who follows "a moral compass." Now, he said, he saw Mr. Wang in a different light.
"One of the attributes of a great leader and a great company is a complete consistency between what they say and what they do," Mr. Citrin said. "At Computer Associates I see a conflict that can't help but undermine their company."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanjay Kumar, Computer Associates' president, left, and Charles Wang, the company's founder and chairman, are facing a proxy fight being waged by Sam Wyly. (Kevin P. Coughlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); OVERTIME (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); THANKSGIVING (70%); CORPORATE CULTURE (69%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (65%); DISMISSALS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CA INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPUTER ASSOCIATES 

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: WYLY, SAM; WANG, CHARLES; KUMAR, SANJAY; STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



27 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: An Art Show Worth Honking At 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DALEY 

 BODY:
CARS are parked all over Stamford this summer -- on the front lawns of corporate headquarters, on busy intersections and boulevards, tucked under the trees in the city's parks, or parked smack in the middle of pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk.
 Seventy clever little Fiberglas cars, each one original, sponsored by businesses and organizations based in Stamford and designed by local artists with a sense of humor. These are Stamford's Art-O-Mobiles, on display through Aug. 31. 
 The fleet of auto-art is part of Art in Public Places, exhibitions that are dreamed up, executed and maintained by Stamford Downtown Special Services District, a nonprofit corporation whose mission is to revitalize downtown.
"Art is a great money generator," said the district's executive director, Sandy Goldstein, "and outdoor exhibits bring visitors. They walk around, find things to do, shop, have dinner." 
The exhibit is a fund-raising event organized by the Downtown Special Services District and the City of Stamford. To sponsor a car cost $6,500, $2,000 of which goes to the artist. At the end of the summer, the cars will be auctioned off by Sotheby's and the money given to charities of the sponsors' choosing. The Stamford CowParade last year earned nearly $400,000 for local charities.
"When I was on-site doing some finishing touches, dozens of people stopped to stare and ask questions," said Miggs Burroughs, a commercial artist who created one of the cars. "Families, kids, deliverymen, workers, policemen -- they all stopped. Whether they know it or not, the cars are steering people to an appreciation of art and the process, and the whole community benefits."'
Nina Bentley was one of the artists who created a cow for last year's CowParade, and she created two art-o-mobiles. In fact, it was a group of artists who thought up the idea of using a car. "There were about a dozen of us cow artists," Ms. Bentley said. "We considered chairs, dogs, shoes." 
The group settled on cars, and Gordon Micunis, designer of stage sets, costumes, private homes, hotel lobbies, and restaurants, created the prototype. Area artists were invited to submit designs, which were bound in a book from which potential sponsors could choose. There was the "Road Hog," which looks like a pig, "Hanging Carden" with vines and flowers, "Autobiography," Miggs Burroughs' car wrapped in script that tells the story of Henry Ford's life and "Sundae-Driver" with a cherry on top, created by two juniors at Stamford High School, Vitti and Nicole Bushley.
The idea for one of the cars came not from an artist but from Paul Kauffman, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield of Connecticut, which has been headquartered in downtown Stamford for 25 years. It was his idea to have players for the Yankees "auto"-graph a car. James Scinto is the artist who created Cushman & Wakefield's "Hit and Run."
Another crowd favorite is WWF Entertainment's submission, covered with handprints of wrestling superstars like the Undertaker, Stone Cold Steve Austin and Triple H. The car is displayed in a wrestling ring, and the ropes help protect the car from possible vandalism.
"Oh, we don't refer to it as 'vandalism,' " Ms. Bentley said. "People like to touch outdoor exhibits. They can't help themselves, especially children. It's more like tough love."
Tough love will be repaired and the cars refurbished in time for the public auction at the Rich Forum on Oct. 4. For details, call the Downtown Special Services District at (203) 348-5285.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Sundae Driver" (top) and "Carsick" are among 70 cars on view as part of Stamford's Art-O-Mobiles. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) ART; PUBLIC ART 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: DALEY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) STAMFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



28 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 National Edition - Bulldog 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: No Headline 

BYLINE:  By Barbara Crossette

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 28 

 BODY:
A panel of the world's leading financial and development experts called today for a new round of international trade talks devoted primarily to aiding the poor countries too weak to reap any benefits from the growing global economy.
 The panel -- which included Robert Rubin, the former United States treasury secretary, and Ernesto Zedillo, the former president of Mexico - recommended that a ministerial-level World Trade Organization meeting planned for Qatar in November "should set an objective of making trade as free between industrial and developing countries as it already is among the industrial countries." 
 The matter is urgent, the experts said in a report commissioned by Secretary General Kofi Annan and published today, because many poor countries are suffering from a slump in the prices of the basic commodities they produce, and the rich countries are dragging their feet on promises to help open more markets to them.
Mr. Zedillo, the panel's chairman, said at a news conference here today, said that richer nations should see the intractable poverty of so much of the world as an issue of self-interest. 
"In today's global village," he said, "someone else's poverty very soon becomes one's own problem -- a lack of buyers for one's products, illegal immigration, pollution, contagious disease, insecurity, fanaticism and even terrorism."
Mr. Rubin said in an interview after the report's release that it is in the self interest of the rich not only to ease trade but also to increase foreign aid substantially. "And yet, we won't be able to do that unless the public understands the issues," he said. "People aren't focused on these issues. There isn't public awareness." He blames a lack of both political will and media attention for the situation.
"The issues in the developing countries in an ever more integrated globe are going to force themselves on the industrial countries," Mr. Rubin said. "Sooner or later, these issues are going to intrude in our lives to a degree that we are going to be forced to face them and deal with them in a way that we should be dealing with them right now."
Freer trade, the panel said, is crucial to development. "It is notable," the report said, "that at least since the 1960s, every country that has pulled its people out of poverty has made a significant opening to trade a central feature of<0> its economic strategy." The experts said that recently, the commitment to free trade has been growing faster among developing nations than among the wealthier countries that deal with them.
The panel - whose members also include Jacques Delors, former French finance minister and president of the European Commission; Abdulatif Yousef Al-Hammad, president of the Arab Fund for Economic Development; David Bryer, head of the relief agency Oxfam, and Manmohan Singh, who as finance minister of India a decade ago led his country through fundamental economic liberalization - made a series of recommendations for trade reform.
The experts recommended, for example, that tariffs on agricultural products needed more reduction. The report showed that sugar can be produced in developing countries for a third of the cost of producing it in some European countries. But the European Union keeps cheaper sugar out by imposing a tariff of 213 percent.
In a bold move, the report also recommends taking a new look at liberalizing the movement of workers from poor to richer countries, which would be a source of hard currency for developing countries. Some developing nations are pressing the United Nations to hold an international conference on this issue, leading to agreements easing visa rules for employment.
The panel suggests finding ways to control risks in commodity prices, possibly creating an insurance system for poor farmers. It advocates more debt forgiveness, a process that began in richer countries and international lending institutions in 1996, and accepts that a variety of international taxes - on financial transactions, carbon emissions or seabed mining -- might be considered. A meeting to discuss "global taxation" is proposed. The idea has long been anathema to the United States Congress.
On investment in the developing world, the expert panel was critical of many poor nations for contributing to their own problems by failing to strengthen institutions and laws to make themselves more attractive to foreign investors.
"The main responsibility for securing growth and equity, and hence for achieving rapid poverty reduction and human development," the report said, "lies with the countries' policymakers." The experts warned that tax structures must be effective and not subject to corruption, and that a "diverse, well functioning, competitive financial system" was necessary not only to encourage domestic savings but also to give confidence to investors. Accounting and auditing standards had to be raised, the report said. It also endorsed "a competent and corruption-free public service" and "a vibrant and independent press."
Other panel members are Mary Chinery-Hesse, former deputy director general of the International Labor Organization; Rebeca rebeca Grynspan, former vice president of Costa Rica; Alexander Y. Livshits, chairman of the board of the Rossiysky Kredit Bank in Russia; Abdul Magid Osman, a banker who was finance minister of Mozambique, and Masayoshi Son, founder of the Softbank Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (53%); TERRORISM (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2001 



29 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Microsoft Wins A Chance To Focus

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
FOR once, conventional wisdom may have it right. 
 A lot of people assumed that the government's antitrust case against Microsoft would not stand up on appeal, and that a court-ordered breakup of the company would be reversed. 
 A unanimous decision by a federal appeals court last week gave some support to those assumptions.
Still, Microsoft is not out of the legal thicket. And it remains to be seen just how much the decision will help the stock. 
In late February, when the court heard Microsoft's appeal, the stock had already risen by more than 30 percent since the start of the year. In the last three months, it has gained an additional 30 percent. 
Michael E. Stanek, head of West Coast software research at Lehman Brothers, took some time on Thursday to talk about the case and the company. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 

Q. What is your take on the Microsoft ruling?

A. The solicitor general, a Bush appointee, is not likely to take this to the Supreme Court.
The appeals court put some pretty tight guidelines on the judge that might take up the case if it goes back to the lower court. The government is going to have to prove there was harm to the consumer, which they never did in the case they argued before Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson.
I think the odds of this being settled and finished by the end of the year are about 70 percent. But we are dealing with so many complexities when the states are factored into the equation that you just don't know. 

Q. Some have argued that uncertainties about the case have put a damper on the entire technology sector. Do you agree?

A. No, I don't. My view is that this was very much a politically driven case. The Clinton administration got generous contributions from venture capitalists and a lot of people in Silicon Valley who cried crocodile tears to see Microsoft get broken up. Clinton helped out his friends, and it slowed Microsoft down for a couple of years.

Q. The appeals court bounced the issue of bundling Microsoft products to its operating system back to the lower court. The company may try much the same strategy for a variety of products on the Internet. The current case is about the past. Should it apply to what is happening now?

A. I think Microsoft will be very careful. If they aren't, they will get in trouble again with someone powerful, like America Online, who has a lot of friends in Washington.

Q. You had a "strong buy" recommendation before the ruling came down. Why?

A. I have been focusing on the upgrade cycle with Windows and Office XP.
In the past, from the day the product ships, every product upgrade cycle at Microsoft has always led to an increase in the stock of between 15 percent and 40 percent. Now, I am not going to say Microsoft stock is going to go up by 40 percent, but if the market and economy pick up, it clearly is an earnings-acceleration story. 
Now that you have removed most of the litigation risk, the company can focus on business fundamentals exclusively. 

Q. But right now the stock is trading at more than 40 times earnings. Isn't it really expensive at these levels?

A. It is probably about fairly valued. I wouldn't look for further multiple expansion, but for earnings to increase.

Q. What are realistic revenue and earnings growth expectations for a company this size?

A. Ten percent to 12 percent revenue growth and 12 percent to 15 percent earnings growth is about what they can do.

Q. The company is banking $1 billion a month and has more than $30 billion in cash. What do you expect that it will do with the money?

A. I think they are going to be acquisitive. I would expect them to look at the Internet space, the applications and storage space and probably the consulting and service space.
I don't think Mr. Gates will use the money to shrink the share base or to issue dividends. 

Q. Is it likely that any acquisitions, particularly large ones, won't happen until after the antitrust case is finally resolved?

A. It would have been imprudent for Microsoft not to have been mentally accruing for settlement payments of something around $1 billion.

Q. Who loses as a result of this decision and its likely outcome?

A. A defanged Microsoft would have been helpful to a lot of people. But in the short term I don't think there is any de facto loser. Oracle and Sun Microsystems will find it really difficult over the next five to seven years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanek 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); APPEALS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUDGES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STANEK, MICHAEL E; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



30 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
A Day at the Races Offers a Checkup As Another Pit Stop

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
I had my body in line for a free checkup at Pfizer's traveling men's health inspection station last Memorial Day weekend when I started talking to Phil Koon, a 41-year-old tool-and-die maker. This was the day before the Coca Cola 600 in Concord, N.C. Like a lot of Nascar fans, Koon hadn't seen a doctor for preventive maintenance in years. Other men waiting with us said their companies tested their blood annually, but mostly for drug use. 
 Still, Koon had a quibble. He said he would prefer if the Winston Cup car that Pfizer sponsored -- Mark Martin's No. 6 Ford -- bore only the drug company's name and not its $1.3 billion men's drug. Koon is not comfortable giving Viagra hats and T-shirts to the children of friends back home in Erie, Pa. His was a minority opinion; the crowd outside Martin's souvenir trailer that day was far thicker than the one outside the men's health pit stop. 
 Next weekend, when the second half of the Nascar season begins with a new broadcast team and a return to Daytona, the Pfizer Tune-Up for Life mobile unit will be waiting outside the track near a parking lot, an oasis of health in a sport that runs on noxious fumes, beer, paranoia and controlled aggression. At least 60 percent of Nascar fans are men, according to industry statistics, and my own unscientific eyeballing would have at least 60 percent of those men smoking, drinking and defiantly, often shirtlessly, overweight. 
"It's the right population to reach with a health message," said Geoff Cook, a Pfizer spokesman, delicately. "And since we've had a 31 percent jump in the number of people screened since last year, our first year, I think we've made a connection."
This is Pfizer's second year as a Nascar sponsor and medical screening presence, its first year sponsoring Martin, a fanatically fit 42-year-old who shows up routinely to get his finger stuck. Inside the 50-foot, cheery screening trailer, lab techs check blood pressure and take blood for cholesterol and glucose tests. Men are also given a five-question "sexual health inventory" questionnaire that concentrates on erectile function. While waiting in a tent outside the trailer for blood-test results, men can read brochures on various Pfizer pharmaceuticals, including Viagra and Zoloft, an antidepressant that is also marketed as a treatment for panic disorders. 
The dozen men and a few wives and girlfriends I spoke with were all Nascar fans who showed up because Pfizer has been advertising the promotion and because it was conveniently located between the parking lot and the speedway entrance. They were overly casual ("It's free, right?") although the women tended to wink a lot. Nobody wanted to talk about Viagra or Zoloft; in this meaty world, everyone was suddenly cholesterol conscious. 
But then, Nascar is a river town on the banks of denial. Heading into the second half, no one wants to think about NBC losing the ratings Fox built, about the eventual end of the posthumous Dale Earnhardt boom (think Elvis, Princess Di), the economy's effect on sponsorship and the ongoing, nongoing safety issue. 
Hey, I'm not worrying. My glucose, cholesterol and blood pressure stats were fine. But Phil Koon's cholesterol was not as good as he had thought; actually he hadn't been thinking about it. The numbers got him a free chat with Dr. Mark Lenderman, one of the local primary care physicians that Pfizer hires for the day. Drugs like Viagra and Zoloft make the family doctor the go-to guy for pharmaceutical companies; they are the prescribers. The doctors also advise anyone who scores dysfunctionally on the erectile inventory to see a family doctor. Dr. Lenderman gave Koon a mini-lecture on how he could lower and control his cholesterol through exercise and nutrition. 
Koon, who gets to three or four Nascar races a year, had been camping for the past 10 days in a nearby field with 100 other Pennsylvanians. He seemed grateful for the wake-up call. According to John Theriot, the on-site manager of the Pfizer facility, one of nine clients sees a doctor, usually because of high cholesterol. Several times, ambulances have been called. 
Dr. Lenderman said that the Nascar fans reflected his own blue-collar practice. 
"This is the working insured," he said. "They work hard, 40 to 60 hours a week in a sedentary job. Many of them relax by eating and watching TV. In general, they are a lot less preoccupied with healthy living than urban folks." 
Dr. Lenderman, who grew up near the Nascar track in Martinsville, Va., has been in Asheville, N.C., for the past 10 years. A lean, fit 37-year-old, he is philosophical about his role in changing lifetime habits. 
"I just saw a woman whose blood sugar was out of control," he said. "She told me she can't afford her diabetes pills. I thought about how expensive Nascar tickets are. I don't know the answer to the question. When you're extending your life by giving up habits, are you always increasing the quality of your life?"
I wondered what I was missing, so I walked over to the Winston booth and tried to sign up for free cigarettes. But I was rejected. Along with proof of age, you had to prove you were already a smoker by showing an open pack. I hadn't opened a pack in 30 years. So I slunk off to the press box where the Marlboros and Camels are free, no questions asked.

The Series So Far
This is the 14th article in a series following auto racing. Previous articles were about Nascar's appeal to a crossover audience, death on the track, religion under the checkered flag, midget racing, life in the pits and the costs of sponsorship.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company that makes Viagra, sponsors Mark Martin's Ford Taurus and provides a medical screening mobile unit at Nascar events. (Photograph by Jon Ferrey/Allsport; Illustration by The New York Times); Amanda Neel of Charlestown, Md., getting blood work done by Mark Franatovich at the Pfizer trailer. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); MEN (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); SMOKING (73%); CHILDREN (73%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); STATISTICS (64%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (62%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (60%); SPORTS CARS (59%); MACHINE TOOLS (57%) AUTOMOBILE RACING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (94%); COCA-COLA CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN SPORTS CAR RACING ASSN; PFIZER INC 

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFEB (BRU) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%); KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



31 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Land of Monopolies

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
AFTER Thursday's decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, which threw out out District Court Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's order to break up Microsoft, the big question seemed to be: Who won? It's an interesting question, given that the court agreed with Judge Jackson that Microsoft was, after all, a predatory monopoly.
 But whatever the answer in this case, there is a growing realization among economists and technology experts that Microsoft may be only the most visible symptom of a problem afflicting the Internet economy. 
 What troubles some observers of the world of Internet-enabled software and services -- which marches to slogans like "get big fast" and "winner take all" -- is that a number of factors may make it a breeding ground for monopolies.
Not all of those factors are new. There are decidedly old fashioned economies of scale that make it cheaper to manufacture things in bulk. In the world of selling intellectual property like software, the trend is even more pronounced, because it costs a great deal of money to develop the product and almost nothing to put it on disks and sell it again and again. This makes it harder for newcomers to enter the market, because they must spend so much time and money up front just developing a product, before they can try to sell it. 
Inertia also helps, since consumers and businesses alike hate the frustration and delay that learning how to use new systems entails. This "lock-in effect" helps preserve market dominance, said Hal R. Varian, economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley, because it creates a different kind of barrier to entry for newcomers -- not the cost to the company of entering the market, but the cost to consumers of making a switch.
But what is really driving the Internet economy, Mr. Varian says, is a relatively new phenomenon known as "network effect" -- the notion that a technology based on connectedness grows increasingly compelling and valuable as more and more people use it. 
The power of the network effect can be seen in technologies like America Online's Instant Messenger. Once teens realized that they could gab after school online, it became a must-have, Mr. Varian said -- and its use exploded, rapidly bringing AOL a near-lock on a market of more than 100 million people that Microsoft is struggling to break into.
Put all of these together and you get an environment in which the benefits of getting big pay off again and again, and consumers themselves reward the urge to grow. The result is a number of markets thoroughly dominated by the biggest player. 
"As software becomes a bigger part of our lives and it becomes a bigger part of the economy, this is going to become a bigger problem," said Michael Froomkin, a professor at the University of Miami School of Law. 
Nor is this effect limited to software. The dynamics of the new market have helped Intel grab 80 percent of the PC microprocessor market -- a share that will grow even larger after last week's announcement that Compaq Corp. would stop offering customers its own Alpha processors by 2004. Oracle Corp., which dominates the database market, is the second largest software company -- only Microsoft is larger. And ask just about any teenager about America Online's hunk of the market for Instant Messenger software.
In a world that tends toward bigness, what's a policy maker to do? Judge Jackson concluded that consumers were being hurt by Microsoft not because the company raised prices too much, but because it suppressed the creativity and competitiveness that a truly open market allows.
Lawrence I. Lessig, a professor of law at Stanford university and author of "Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace," said that whether the company chooses to fight on or settle, its true intentions will be revealed in the architecture of its future products.
"Are they building code that will level the playing field, or are they building code that will tilt the playing field in their direction?" he asks. 
"Microsoft, more than anybody else, recognizes that architecture matters," said Mr. Lessig.
It has been suggested that the so-called open source technologies -- software like the computer operating system Linux -- might offer real competition to the commercial software giants. These software platforms are designed by volunteers, given away for free. But Linux, like many of these software labors of love, isn't a really consumer product that can be easily installed and run by mere mortals. Although people who run Web sites have flocked to the free, open software, consumers have not.
Some commentators suggest that technology moves too quickly for government to effectively regulate, and that fast moving technology markets should simply be left to regulate themselves. They point to the fact that the technology market is so volatile that today's monopolist is tomorrow's loser -- lessons learned by the makers of such products as Lotus 1-2-3 and Wordstar, which once dominated their worlds.
A RECENT paper by the economists David S. Evans and Richard Schmalensee suggested that classic antitrust law might not be the best tool to deal with these emerging issues. The two economists, who have written papers and legal filings supporting Microsoft's position in its antitrust case, said that government should act to keep companies from abusing their monopoly power to undercut competitors, but that "the application of antitrust principles should take account of the important ways new-economy industries differ from traditional ones."
In particular, they wrote, if a dominant company can prove that there is healthy competition despite its commanding share of a market that has winner-take-all characteristics, that fact "should be a defense to claims of predation."
Mr. Schmalensee, the dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, declined to comment because he anticipates being called as a witness if the Microsoft case goes to a new phase.
Robert Litan, an economist at the Brookings Institution, while admitting that "judicial time doesn't move anywhere near as fast as Internet time," says that the fact that antitrust regulation in the new economy is hard doesn't mean that it should be abandoned. 
Governments fight terrorism even though that task becomes more difficult with each passing day, he said, and although he hesitated at a potential comparison between antitrust and terrorism, he said,"we may not be able to stop it, but we'd be stupid if we didn't try." 
"We do need to watch the winners more closely," he said. That naturally means paying attention to the most powerful players, because "monopolies are in the position to wield their power unfairly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Gates on Thursday, after learning of the appellate court's Microsoft decision. (Larry Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); JUDGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); INSTANT MESSAGING (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (59%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (52%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AOL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



32 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
A Corner Office Has Little Room for Books

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IF the the world of business is defined by flux, one aspect of commerce seems immutable: the torrent of business books that rises from the presses.
 Clearly, someone is buying these books, but most of them probably receive little more than the skimming they deserve. It is easy to deride the ebb and flow of management fashions as reflected in these texts, but the mighty tide of business books needing to be ignored raises a larger question: Does it pay for people in business to read any books at all? The answer, I suggest, is that it depends on how ambitious they are. 
 If they want to stand out among their peers as thoughtful executives, if eggheads of sorts, then by all means they should immerse themselves in books and enjoy careers in middle management. But if they dream bigger dreams and want to rise to the very top, then they shouldn't waste their time. 
While some gluttonous readers do get far (Abe Lincoln and Bill Clinton, to name an unlikely pair), such relative aliterates as Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush are just as likely to be elected president.
Nor is intellectualism much of a vehicle for navigating the road to riches. Dr. Thomas J. Stanley, co-author of "The Millionaire Next Door," (Longstreet Press) reports that "the average millionaire's SAT score will not likely gain him or her admittance to so-called selective or competitive colleges." He added that most millionaires did not attend such schools. 
Voracious reading is probably no more helpful if what you covet is the corner office. In a 1990 survey, Fortune magazine found that 81 percent of the chief executives of major companies did not hold Ivy League degrees. And as Nicholas Lemann, an author and book critic, has observed, "the idea that America is run by a sophisticated, brainy, culturally liberal group" -- in other words, readers -- is a relatively new one. The reality is that the route to business success is not paved with business books or any other printed matter, aside from the usual e-mail, memos and trade journals. 
LITERATURE itself may offer explanations for this. Socrates, for example, suggests that books impede learning by undermining memory; people on the fast track may know that instinctively. Or perhaps they fear that reading will turn them into Al Mannheim, the humane narrator of Budd Schulberg's novel, "What Makes Sammy Run," instead of Sammy Glick, the book's ruthless protagonist, who claws his way to the top in Hollywood. Could it be that readers are more suited to narrating life than wresting it from its channel and redirecting it according to their own energies?
"Much reading is an oppression of the mind and extinguishes the natural candle," said William Penn, who, despite these views, was enough of a leader to found an entire state. This attitude may account for why we spend so little time curled up with good books. As Anthony Burgess, the author, complained, "Americans will listen, but they do not care to read."
In fact, a survey commissioned by the American Booksellers Association found that half of all American households do not buy a single book all year. As someone who writes books as well as reads them, I could make all kinds of claims for what these people are missing, but in economic terms they have an argument. Simply put, they may have concluded that reading is not cost-effective.
All this poses a problem: A culture of literacy is vitally important for both business and society. Only educated workers can produce and pay for the standard of living we now enjoy and the more or less safe and orderly democracy that makes possible the lives we lead. If everyone refrained from reading, the economy would probably collapse, but too few of us perceive a direct personal benefit from reading to actually do much of it. It is the problem of the commons -- individual incentives appear to be at variance with the collective good.
Like every other interest group, authors have the chance to cloak self-interest in altruism. Our elected leaders are always ready to bestow handouts to corporations, so why not a federal program to supply literature? Call it Books for Bigwigs, and pay for it with a modest tax on golf tees. Tax breaks, of course, could be offered to readers to compensate them for the handicap of perspective that reading inevitably develops.
If anyone cheats, well, we'll throw the book at them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); LIBERALISM (62%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (71%); BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) AKST, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANNHEIM, GERMANY (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



33 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Fun and Games at the Fed, But Not for the Chairman

BYLINE:  By Richard W. Stevenson 

 BODY:
Who says monetary policy is dry? Or that Alan Greenspan lacks a sense of humor?
 Mr. Greenspan's appearance on Thursday at the new visitors center of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago belies both questions. 
 The center offers a clear, plastic, 4-foot cube filled with a million dollar bills that literally weigh a ton, an elevator shaft filled with $50,800 worth of coins (plus a few pennies thrown in by Fed employees for good luck) and an interactive computer game that lets visitors look at hypothetical economic conditions and decide whether interest rates should go up or down. But Mr. Greenspan, given the chance to play, begged off. 
"When asked whether I might want to give it a try," he said, "I became very cognizant of the downside risk: flunking the quiz in front of you and the gathered media."
The center will have its grand opening on Saturday -- complete with a musical tribute to money. Richard W. Stevenson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%) SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



34 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Status Quo on Social Security

BYLINE:  By Julie Flaherty 

 BODY:
President Bush has talked a lot about giving working Americans more control over their Social Security contributions, perhaps by letting them invest some of that money in stocks. He has even appointed a commission to study the issue. 
But it seems that a large number of people like things just the way they are.
 While surveys in the past have shown some support for at least partial privatization, about half the 1,005 people questioned by telephone in May said they did not believe that Social Security should be privatized and that the government should continue to manage their money. Only 38 percent favored privatization. 
 Older people expressed the most opposition, with 63 percent against privatization, which could bring losses as well as gains. "They can't imagine that it may not be there for the future," said Phil Wiseman, a vice president of Maritz Marketing Research in Fenton, Mo., which conducted the survey released in June.
The volatile stock market, along with a weaker economy, may be the cause for hesitation. In fact, about half the people surveyed believed the country was in a recession. Julie Flaherty


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%) PRIVATIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: MARITZ MARKETING RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MARITZ MARKETING RESEARCH 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



35 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Federal Money Is Following Rebuilt Beaches Out to Sea 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: ST. AUGUSTINE BEACH, Fla., June 28 

 BODY:
Even the Army Corps of Engineers concedes that its costly and monumental projects along coastlines like this one are ultimately fruitless. 
 Sooner or later (usually sooner), the sand transplanted in vast quantities to eroded beaches disappears again with the waves and must be replaced again and again, at staggering cost. For the dozens of projects already approved, the bill to taxpayers from now to 2050 is expected to exceed $6 billion. 
 Yet Congress, long a supporter of the corps's dam and dike projects, is ignoring a call by President Bush to put the brakes on the beach work. To the dismay of conservation and taxpayer groups alike, a spending measure approved by the Republican-led House today would nearly double the budget proposed by the White House for the projects, setting aside about $150 million for beach repairs, more than ever before. 
The measure restores this year's financing for dozens of programs the White House wanted cut, like a $220 million project for 2.5 miles of beach here. It also retains a cost-share formula that Mr. Bush had tried to scrap, in which the federal government agrees to pay for a two-thirds share of the work.
The White House has urged Congress to reconsider the plan, warning that the high long-term costs of such projects could ultimately crowd out other spending priorities. But under Representative C. W. Bill Young, the Republican who heads the Appropriations Committee, an appeal for help from coastal towns has won out over such budget concerns, and nowhere more than in Florida, Mr. Young's home state, where the House increased the $8.9 million budget proposed by Mr. Bush to more than $42 million. The beneficiaries include the residents of St. Augustine Beach, population 4,800, where the annual cost of repairs for the next 50 years is expected to average about $1.5 million a mile.
"The money follows the sand; you put the sand on the beach, and the money goes away," said Tim Eichenberg, a lawyer for the Ocean Conservancy, a conservation group. 
But so far Congress seems impervious to such complaints, in part because of the proven way corps projects deliver economic benefits to home districts, and perhaps also because of people like Max Royle, the city manager of St. Augustine Beach. 
"If my federal taxes are going to go to build levees on the Mississippi River, for dams, for flood control and for dredging of rivers, then I think it's a fair exchange for others to pay for beaches here," Mr. Royle said today in his office, near a beach so badly eroded that it all but disappears at high tide. 
Beach restoration projects, at one stage or another, are under way in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, California and a handful of other states. Among the larger projects under way is one in Virginia Beach, Va., where $9 million is to be spent next year alone on spewing sand sucked up from an undersea site onto a beach that federal officials say needs increased hurricane protection. The projects are often justified as providing coastal communities with protection from storms and from further erosion, but the most immediate benefits tend to be economic, through tourist spending and tax revenue.
Mr. Bush is not the first president to try to cut money for the corps's beach programs; President Bill Clinton would have all but eliminated the federal role. But with Congress's blessing, the spending keeps climbing, to about $150 million in the measure the House passed today. 
In defending the Bush plan, administration officials said every dollar spent on shore restoration was a dollar less spent on something else. "The funding formula should reflect to whom the benefits flow, and we believe that local beachgoers are the primary beneficiaries of healthy beaches," said Chris Ullman, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget. 
But members of Congress who represent coastal states have responded with enough fury and alarm to torpedo the White House proposal in the House, and to render its prospects slim at best when it reaches the Senate. Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, has said the White House plan would have "a catastrophic effect on beach communities" and on his state's tourist-driven economy.
Over all, the House measure has added $568 million, or 16 percent, to the Corps of Engineers' budget beyond what was proposed by the White House, with the additional money going to pay for flood-control programs, sewer projects and other plans that did not survive White House scrutiny.
Jeff Stein, a water resources expert at Taxpayers for Common Sense, a group that advocates fiscal conservatism, criticized the record levels of financing for beach repair, which he described as "pumping sand on beaches so it can wash away into the sea."
Defending the beach-replenishing efforts, Rick McMillen, the Corps of Engineers' project manager for St. Augustine Beach, offered a different view. "As long as you're going to allow people to buy property along the shoreline, the government's going to have to take some responsibility, because eventually that shoreline is going to be in jeopardy," Mr. McMillen said.
Since the 1920's, the government has spent more than $1 billion on beach repairs, said Owen H. Pilkey Jr., a professor emeritus of geology at Duke University who is a critic of the beach renourishment efforts. But with dozens of 50-year projects under way, and the government obligated by contract to help pay for periodic replenishment, which involves millions of tons of sand, that figure is increasing rapidly.
Mr. Stein, the taxpayer advocate, said his own calculations put taxpayers' total obligation over the next 50 years at more than $10 billion just for projects that have already been approved. He said that could be reduced by $3 billion if Mr. Bush ultimately prevails in persuading Congress to reduce the federal share of future beach repairs from the current two-thirds to 35 percent.
But beach restoration has many advocates, including Robert Dean, a coastal engineering specialist at the University of Florida. They argue that the benefits of repairing beaches often exceed its costs, even as measured purely in terms of storm damage averted by the new sand. In Ocean City, Md., where about $50 million has been spent over the past decade to repair a six-mile stretch of beach, a recent study by the Army Corps of Engineers estimated savings at $230 million in the damage that would have been inflicted by hurricanes and other storms.
In St. Augustine Beach, the part-time mayor, Emmett Pacetti, made the case another way. 
"Probably the congressmen that don't have any beach might see all of this as a waste of money," Mr. Pacetti said. "But when you see your beach destroyed and houses ready to fall in, I don't think it's right when people say we should just let nature take its course."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about federal money spent to repair eroded beaches misstated the given name of a Duke University geologist who is critical of beach replenishment. He is Orrin H. Pilkey Jr., not Owen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the federal beach restoration projects under way is this one in Virginia Beach, Va., where sand is being extracted from an undersea site. (Gary C. Knapp for The New York Times) Chart: "New Sand, New Lines Drawn"Congress is allocating more money than ever before for Army Corps of Engineers beach restoration projects, and nearly twice what the Bush administration requested. Florida's shore protection projectsIn thousands of dollars, 2002 fiscal year SITE: Duval CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: APPROVED$0 BY THE HOUSE: $3,000 SITE: St. Johns CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 300APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 4,000 SITE: Brevard CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 200APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 8,500 SITE: Pinellas CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 0APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 2,000 SITE: Egmont KeyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 0APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 500 SITE: Fort Pierce BeachWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 0APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 500 SITE: Martin CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 0APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 3,000 SITE: Palm Beach CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 200APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 4,500 SITE: Broward CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 200APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 2,500 SITE: Dade CountyWHITE HOUSE PROPOSAL: 8,000APPROVED BY THE HOUSE: 14,860 WHITE HOUSE PROPOSALTOTAL: 8,900 WHITE HOUSE PROPOSALU.S. TOTAL: 82,535 APPROVED BY THE HOUSETOTAL: 43,360U.S. TOTAL: 150,800(Source: Taxpayers for Common Sense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EROSION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); RIVERS (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FLOOD CONTROL (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%) BEACHES; COAST EROSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (94%) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); C W BILL YOUNG (55%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; DELAWARE; MARYLAND; NORTH CAROLINA; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



36 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Q & A 

 BODY:
 Sunday Q & A appears in this section weekly. Readers are invited to send in questions about national or international affairs; those selected will be answered by Times correspondents who specialize in those issues. Information about submitting questions appears below.

Speaking Ingliski

Q. Does the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, speak English?

A. Patrick E. Tyler, the Moscow bureau chief, responds:
 During their summit conference in Slovenia, Presidents George W. Bush and Vladimir V. Putin were shown walking down a garden path without interpreters. The two men appeared to be talking to each other. As they passed by a line of reporters and photographers, a Russian reporter shouted to Mr. Putin, "What language are you speaking?" Mr. Putin cupped his hand and replied with a smile, in Russian, "Ingliski." 
Kremlin officials said that Mr. Putin had been studying English for months, in anticipation of his first meeting with Mr. Bush and out of a broader interest in the language. As a K.G.B. officer, Mr. Putin learned and spoke German fluently. After the Slovenia summit conference, Mr. Putin met with a group of American reporters in the Kremlin and was asked whether he was going to respond to their questions in English. But he demurred and carried on in Russian for nearly three hours. He said that Mr. Bush had been very polite during their walk in the garden in Slovenia by pretending to understand what Mr. Putin was saying, but the Russian leader, showing statesmanlike modesty, said he doubted that he had made himself understood. 
But he has two more summit meetings with Mr. Bush this year in which to practice. They will be in Genoa, Italy, this month, and in Shanghai in October.

Sizing Up the Federal Debt

Q. With all the talk about a federal surplus, what is happening to the federal debt?

A. John H. Cushman Jr., an editor in Washington, responds:
Shortly before noon each morning, about 50 federal offices report to the Treasury Department's Bureau of the Public Debt, telling how many government bonds, notes and bills they are holding and how many they have sold to the public or redeemed. By the next day, the bureau has calculated down to the penny how much money the federal government owes. The number is posted on the bureau's Web page at www.publicdebt .treas.gov.
As of Friday, the total debt for Thursday was $5,663,970,068,775.88. (That's $5 trillion and change.) 
But who knows when, if ever, the debt will be paid off? It's impossible, at this stage, to predict how long it will be before the recently enacted $1.35 trillion tax cut is adjusted, or how much federal spending will increase, or how much interest rates will change, in the coming decade. All these factors will affect the rate of debt reduction, for better or worse.
In any event, the debt bureau's Web page also contains information for people who want to take a personal stake in these mind-boggling numbers.
It is a simple matter, for example, to buy savings bonds over the World Wide Web, as well as other Treasury securities. The debt bureau's page explains how to do it, and what different debt instruments are available. As long as a big chunk of your taxes is going to pay the interest on those trillions of borrowed dollars, you may want to own some of the debt and collect a bit of the interest yourself.
Among the frequently asked questions on the bureau's Web site is: "How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?" It's easy. Write a check to the Bureau of the Public Debt. Be sure to mark it "gift to reduce the debt held by the public." And mail it to: Attn. Dept. G, Bureau of the Public Debt, P.O. Box 2188, Parkersburg, W.Va. 26106-2188.

Fewer Flight Delays?

Q. Last summer, air travelers faced many delays and cancellations because of labor problems, bad weather and overscheduling of flights. What is the prognosis for this summer?

A. Laurence Zuckerman, a business reporter who covers aviation, responds:
Officials at the Federal Aviation Administration, the Transportation Department and the airlines predict that travel this summer will be slightly better than last year, which was plagued by a record number of delays and cancellations. But they are crossing their fingers because much will depend on the weather. 
About 65 to 70 percent of all delays are caused by the elements, according to the F.A.A. Last summer, thunderstorms were significantly more prevalent than normal in many cities, snarling air traffic across the country as delays at one airport cascaded through the air traffic system. 
The F.A.A. statistics for the first 28 days of June indicated that delays were down 14 percent compared with the period last year, which was one of the worst months on record. But officials warn that the peak summer travel and thunderstorm season is just beginning. There is plenty of opportunity for delays and cancellations to rise. 
The F.A.A. and the airlines have made some changes that, if not always significantly cutting the number of delays, have at least reduced their duration. Officials pointed out that the average length of a delay in May fell to 37 minutes, from 56 minutes last year. In addition, the total number of minutes that airplanes were held on the ground awaiting clearance from air traffic control plunged 70 percent during the month compared with May 2000. 
Some of the major airlines have reorganized their schedules at their busiest hub airports to reduce peak congestion and added more spare planes. The F.A.A. now plays host to a conference call every two hours during the day to coordinate air traffic flows across the country. It has also opened air space at lower altitudes and gained access to military air space that was previously restricted. 
Labor unrest has also declined sharply from last summer, when pilots at United Airlines were in the midst of tense contract negotiations.
But what may be helping more than anything is the weaker economy. Business travel is way down compared with last year, though the number of vacationers has remained strong.
Send questions by e-mail to
sundayq&a@nytimes.com, or by mail to Sunday Q & A, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Those of widest interest will be selected, but unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Previous Sunday Q & A's are available at www.nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "Two Ways of Seeing One Big Number"At the end of the 2000 fiscal year, the national debt stood at a whopping $5.629 trillion, having risen sharply since the early 1980's. But when the debt is seen as a share of the whole economy, a different picture emerges. DEBT HELD BY: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTS -- Mostly securities held by various government trust funds, like the Social Security trust fund or the federal highway trust fund. THE PUBLIC -- Includes Treasury bills, notes and bonds, and government savings bonds. Charts track debts in unadjusted dollar terms and as a percentage of G.D.P. from 1940 to 2000 with estimates for 2001.(Sources: Office of Management and Budget; Bureau of the Public Debt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BONDS (72%); TAX RELIEF (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); BUREAU OF THE PUBLIC DEBT (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (68%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SLOVENIA (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



37 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Bush Backs Japan's Economic Plans, Sidestepping 2 Disputes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 30 

 BODY:
Meeting in the relaxed setting of Camp David, President Bush and Japan's new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, jointly embraced a rapid reform of Japan's recession-plagued economy but carefully sidestepped major differences on global warming and missile defense.
 The meeting today was stage-managed to emphasize the United States-Japan partnership and to subject the two leaders to relatively few questions about the implications of Japan's economic strategy or their differences on the Kyoto Protocol, the global warming accord that Mr. Bush has rejected as "dead." 
 They agreed today that the two governments would explore restarting negotiations on the accord. But in a joint statement Mr. Koizumi emphasized the importance of the 1997 agreement, and Mr. Bush simply acknowledged that global warming was a problem both nations needed to address. 
The meeting took place as Japan sinks deeper into recession, after a decade of slow growth and a deepening banking crisis. Mr. Bush, aware that his guest faces a crucial parliamentary election next month, heartily endorsed Mr. Koizumi's reform plans.
"I have no reservations about the economic reform package the prime minister is advancing," he said as the two men talked to a small group of reporters on the grounds of the presidential retreat in Maryland. "He talks about tackling some difficult issues that some leaders in the past refused to address."
A senior aide to Mr. Bush said the meeting, in a small cabin at Camp David, "was energetic, with really good chemistry." 
The two men spent a considerable amount of time in the "Maple" cabin talking about the bad debts that are weighing down the Japanese economy, and which are increasing in size as the recession worsens. But Mr. Bush did not press for details about whether or how Mr. Koizumi's government would finally close failing banks, or pump more money into the banking system -- something Japan can ill afford to do now. 
Speaking to reporters with Mr. Koizumi, Mr. Bush talked about the experience of banks in Texas in the 1980's, when, he said, "we acted to remedy a situation in which we had bad loans, nonperforming assets, and there was some pain." He said the Texas economy had come back "stronger than before," although economists note a huge difference in scale between the savings and loan problem in Mr. Bush's home state and the troubles of banks in the world's second-largest economy. 
Mr. Bush did not mention the concerns that some of his economic aides and many Japanese officials have about the short-term costs of Mr. Koizumi's reforms. Japanese officials warn that fixing the banking system, which is sinking under $1 trillion in bad debts, and deregulating the economy could set off unemployment and further deflation. That, in turn, could worsen slowdowns in the United States and Europe. 
Much as Mr. Bush said two weeks ago that he had searched the eyes of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and found a man he could trust, Mr. Koizumi said he was pleasantly surprised by his first meeting with Mr. Bush. "I didn't feel at the outset I would be able to establish such a strong relationship of trust with the president," he volunteered.
In public at least, the two men kept the conversation and the atmosphere light. Mr. Bush and Mr. Koizumi tossed a baseball in front of reporters.
But the easy tone could not conceal the magnitude of the problem that Japan and its trading partners face.
"On the economic side, everyone is reduced to praying, and hoping that some of the economic reforms can be put in place," said Kenneth Courtis, vice chairman for Asia at Goldman, Sachs in Tokyo. "But the fact is that unwinding the banking crisis will be very difficult, at a time that we remember that unwinding a much smaller crisis in Thailand in 1997 had vast global implications."
At a news conference in Washington this evening, Mr. Koizumi insisted that "a Japan-initiated global recession will not occur," and he said that reviving the Japanese economy was "the greatest mission" for his governemnt.
But he was not specific in response to questions about how he planned to accomplish that goal. He also said that pressure for reform from the United States did not bother him. "I will accept it all as advice," he said, "even though at times we may feel displeased.
Just as Mr. Bush praised Mr. Koizumi's reform plans, the prime minister was careful not to publicly cross the president on the global warming pact. "I am not disappointed in the president's position," Mr. Koizumi said, although a week ago he said Mr. Bush's stance was deplorable. Today he said that if Washington and Tokyo could cooperate, "we will be able to create means which will be more effective in dealing with the global warming issue," and he said he would not proceed without the United States. 
Japan is caught between its desire to win passage of the treaty -- which requires industrial nations to reduce to pre-1990 levels emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that cause global warming -- and the strong opposition of its largest trading partner and military ally. 
As Mr. Koizumi arrived, an American Air Force sergeant was questioned in the rape of a Japanese woman on the island of Okinawa, where tens of thousands of American military personnel are based. The incident was not discussed, the senior aide said, and Mr. Koizumi "said he understood how important the American presence was for Japanese and Asian security."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Koizumi also announced a bilateral economic initiative, aimed at promoting growth and discussing economic and regulatory reform, foreign direct investment, and market openings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan embraced reform of Japan's economy at Camp David yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); RECESSION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (88%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



38 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Got Good English? Got! But Singapore Has Doubts
Singapore's leaders have launched the Speak Good English Movement, a campaign to eliminate a rough-and-ready patois known as Singlish, one of many offspring of the English language known to linguists as Englishes. 1

Bush Meets Koizumi of Japan
President Bush and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi met for the first time and agreed that their governments would "explore" restarting negotiations over global warming, months after Mr. Bush declared the previous accord "dead." 12

A United States Air Force sergeant who has become the main suspect in the rape of a Japanese woman in Okinawa last week was released without being charged after a second day of questioning, the police said. 3

Security Push in Japan Schools
After a man killed eight children at an elementary school last month, schools have adopted security measures that until the attack would have been unthinkable. 3

Serb Leader's Transfer Account
Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said that he feared the army would try to stop the transfer of Slobodan Milosevic to an international tribunal this week and that he had set up an elaborate series of ruses and decoys to spirit the former president out of the country. 8

Turkey's Education Deficit
Two-thirds of Turkey's 66 million people are under age 35 -- a huge potential resource for a developing economy -- but deficiencies in the centralized national education system have left many without skills. 6

NATIONAL 14-19

Heart Regulator Implanted In Vice President's Chest
Vice President Dick Cheney left the hospital after doctors implanted a sophisticated defibrillator device in his chest, the third cardiac procedure Mr. Cheney has undergone since the election in November. 1

Eco-Sabotage Is Rising
Federal authorities report a growing pattern of eco-sabotage, with anonymous break-ins at genetic-engineering laboratories or arson at logging sites. Companies large and small are increasing security against the perpetrators, who say they are acting in defense of the environment. 1

Blacks a New Power in Suburb
Washington, D.C., has been steadily losing tens of thousands of blacks as they pursue the suburban dream. In their exodus, they have built a new black majority in nearby Prince George's County, Md. 14

Work on Beaches Faulted
Congress is ignoring a call by President Bush to put the brakes on transplanting sand to eroded beaches, work that costs billions and that even the Army Corps of Engineers concedes is fruitless. 14

Tentative Airline Settlement
Negotiators for American Airlines and its flight attendants agreed on a tentative contract, federal mediators said. Flight attendants had rejected a tentative agreement in 1999 and have been without a contract ever since. 15

Smithsonian Plan Reversed
A Senate committee has voted to keep open a Smithsonian Institution center that researches the conservation of art, reversing a decision by the secretary of the institution. 18

NEW YORK/REGION 21-26

Bloomberg, in an Interview, Seems More Like a Democrat
Michael R. Bloomberg is seeking the Republican nomination for mayor of New York, but the candidate on display during a 70-minute interview at his sleek and spotless campaign headquarters appeared far closer on the issues to his Democratic rivals than to any Republican, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 21

Seeking Officers to Be Nurses
A New York health care company has turned to an unlikely talent pool as a way of ending the local shortage of nurses. The Visiting Nurse Service of New York is recruiting police officers and firefighters, many of whom retire young and seek second careers. 22

Albany Gives Help to Poor
In a year notable mostly for stalemate, the New York State Legislature has quietly passed a flurry of bills to aid the poor. Advocates for the poor say that the bills represent the greatest step the Legislature has taken in years. 24

Fresh Air Fund 23

OBITUARIES 27-28

Chet Atkins
A versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the force that transformed country music, he was 77. 27

Rabbi Ira Eisenstein
A key figure in the creation of the Reconstructionist movement in American Judaism, he was 94. 28

James T. Ellis
A computer scientist who was one of the creators of an electronic discussion network that helped spur the growth of the Internet, he was 45. 28

Chess 26
Sunday Q & A 19
Cong. Vote 26
Weather 29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECOTERRORISM (89%); ARMIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (82%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ARSON (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (69%); ENGINEERING (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BEACHES (64%); AIRLINES (62%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (62%); EROSION (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



39 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2895 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Bias Agency Is Short Of Will And Cash 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WITH headquarters in an unimpressive modern building in the middle of the northwest quadrant of the capital, where it is surrounded by small businesses and lobbyists' offices, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission seems far removed from the marble columns and sway of the White House and Capitol just a few miles away.
 Although the agency's mission of fighting discrimination in the workplace is central to a nation founded on the principle of equality, the E.E.O.C. has spent most of its 37-year history out of sight and of mind, and typifying the worst of government bureaucracy. 
 While it has become a much better-managed organization in the last eight years, the E.E.O.C. has many critics. They say it lacks the political will and the wherewithal to aggressively pursue all companies guilty of blatant discrimination and harassment.
Within weeks, a new commission chairman is expected to be confirmed by the Senate for a five-year term. President Bush has nominated Cari M. Dominguez, a workplace consultant who served in the Labor Department during the administration of Mr. Bush's father. Ms. Dominguez will replace Ida L. Castro, the chairwoman appointed by President Bill Clinton in 1998. 
But President Bush's commitment to the agency is unclear, and most people who follow the agency expect the new administration to continue the pattern of previous ones, Democratic and Republican alike, in considering it a low priority. Without larger budgets and greater political influence, the new chairwoman may have as much trouble as her predecessors in transforming the agency into a powerful force.
Although it does manage to process the tens of thousands of complaints it receives each year, the agency seems passive, unable to develop a dynamic master plan to root out the worst cases of discrimination. Its enforcement efforts often seem haphazard and uncoordinated, critics say, and it is noticeably absent in many lawsuits accusing the nation's most powerful companies of widespread discrimination.
It did not join a lawsuit filed in mid-June, for example, by six female employees against Wal-Mart Stores, accusing the company of engaging in widespread discrimination against women. The suit seeks class-action status for an estimated 700,000 women -- former and current employees -- in what could be the largest discrimination lawsuit ever brought against a private employer in the United States. The company denies the allegations.
THROUGHOUT corporate America, complaints of discrimination and harassment remain stubbornly high, despite the decade-long economic boom that forced many employers to scramble for workers. Some 80,000 individual complaints are made annually to the commission, a number that has held steady in recent years. A growing proportion are accusations of harassment of women and minorities: factory floors where some men feel free to expose themselves and work places where supervisors don Ku Klux Klan hoods or fellow employees hang nooses. Claims of retaliation by employers against workers who have complained of discrimination have nearly tripled in the last decade, to about 22,000 a year.
"There are thousands of establishments that appear to be discriminating," said Alfred W. Blumrosen, a professor at the Rutgers School of Law in Newark, who was an official at the agency in its early years and has maintained ties there. With a Ford Foundation grant, Mr. Blumrosen is analyzing the agency's own data, without identifying specific companies, to determine the breadth of discrimination in the United States. He plans to release his results this fall.
Through much of its history, the E.E.O.C. has been plagued by a lack of resources and a combination of internal politics and inefficiencies that have prevented it from accomplishing much more than isolated victories. While it has recently taken stands on some controversial issues -- it has sought to prohibit employers from using genetic testing on employees and to force companies to cover the cost of prescription contraceptives -- its critics say it is too cognizant of how the political winds are blowing to pursue its mission aggressively.
"There is not a huge national will to have the agency be more effective," said John Rowe, a district office director in Chicago who has worked for the E.E.O.C. for nearly 30 years. "It shows itself not only in the want of resources and want of political appetite for radical change but also down in the trenches. It's unwise to upset anybody too much."
Since the agency gets little respect, morale has chronically suffered. Without the money to hire more lawyers and investigators or to buy computers, the agency fell further and further behind in the 1980's into much of the 1990's.
Some people hope that the new leadership can reinvigorate the agency, not least because they have better relations with corporate America. "I still want the E.E.O.C. to be a powerful player," able to work with companies and take vigorous enforcement action when necessary, said Lynn Martin, a labor secretary in the first Bush administration. But she added that now would be time for "a good look-see" at the agency.
While civil rights advocates generally praise the commitment of the new nominee, Ms. Dominguez, to ending discrimination, much of her ability to make a difference will depend on support from the White House. "Unless you have a direct line in there, you are not going to get much accomplished," said Gilbert F. Casellas, who was chairman of the agency for three years during the Clinton administration.
There is a danger that the president will not support Ms. Dominguez if she stakes out positions that are too assertive. Mr. Bush has already undercut the positions of some members of his cabinet, notably Christie Whitman, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who had to back down on her support for cutting power-plant emissions.
There also appears to be little hope that the commission will receive larger budgets under Mr. Bush. The slight increase requested for the coming year translates into a de facto cut because so much of the agency's budget represents salaries for its 2,800 employees and payments for the space it occupies in 50 field offices and 24 district offices across the country. Those costs are rising faster than the size of the budget.
ALTHOUGH it still has miles to go, the agency is more efficient than it used to be. Chronically short of staff and laboring under a policy of Clarence Thomas, its chairman from 1982 to 1990, to fully investigate each and every complaint, the agency was drowning in a backlog through the early 1990's.
Under Mr. Casellas and Ms. Castro, it extricated itself from the piles of complaints clogging its system.
"This agency is a viable enforcement agency," said Nancy Kreiter, the director of research at Women Employed, a nonprofit group in Chicago that evaluates the commission and, in recent years, has been chosen by the agency to monitor its settlements. "It was not eight years ago."
The agency has begun to prioritize complaints and now tosses out as many as one-fifth as having little merit. "The gunshot wound and the paper cut should never be treated the same," Mr. Casellas said. The number of unresolved claims has been slashed to 41,000 from a peak of 111,000 in 1995. The average filing is now resolved within six months.
The agency, whose responsibilities expanded significantly under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, was also able to free resources by better managing its operations. "When we came in," said Paul M. Igasaki, the vice chairman, referring to his arrival with Mr. Casellas and another commissioner in 1994, "there were enough inefficiencies to wring out."
An influx of about $60 million, in addition to its usual budget, in the last three years of the Clinton administration allowed the agency to play some desperately needed catch-up. Ms. Castro hired more lawyers and investigators and made investments to upgrade the computer system. When she arrived, some offices around the country had no e-mail or access to the Internet. She was also able to spend money on formal, in-house job training for employees.
The agency also came up with some creative ways to stretch its resources. One initiative, in particular, has won universal praise: a voluntary mediation program overseen by the agency. Some 23,000 employment discrimination cases have gone through such mediation in the last two and a half years, and, for the most part, employers and employees alike have been extremely satisfied with the process.
"We think the program ought to be expanded," said Jeffrey A. Norris, the president of the Equal Employment Advisory Council, a nonprofit group in Washington with 350 member companies that seeks to influence employment law and policy through courts and regulators.
The agency also brought some lawsuits that garnered headlines and won applause from civil rights advocates. In June 1998, the Mitsubishi Motor Manufacturing Company of America agreed to pay $34 million to hundreds of women to settle a suit over accusations of sexual harassment at its plant in Normal, Ill. The previous year, the E.E.O.C. reached a $63.5 million agreement with Publix Super Markets in a sex-discrimination suit and a $13 million settlement with Martin Marietta over allegations of age discrimination.
The agency says it has won more money for aggrieved employees in recent years from settlements and other agreements with employers. That reached a peak of about $250 million in the latest fiscal year -- not including $50 million awarded by courts.
"The results have been pretty much, if I may say so, astonishing," said Ms. Castro. Many would agree.
BUT money remains crucial to the E.E.O.C.'s ability to keep functioning at such a level, especially in maintaining its computer systems and developing innovative programs. "Without the resources, I would not have been able to accomplish half of what was done," Ms. Castro said.
A few years ago, for example, when Congress refused to provide additional money, the agency had to cut back on the mediation program. It still has not fully taken off. And when the agency began experimenting to check employers' hiring processes by sending out test applicants, Congress reacted by refusing to allocate any money for such a tool.
The agency also faces challenges quite distinct from its level of resources. One is internal politics. It is a bipartisan agency, and the chairman, who is appointed by the president, serves with four other commissioners, Republicans and Democrats, in staggered terms. When Ms. Castro leaves -- her term expires in 2002 -- the new agency head will inherit two Democratic commissioners, Mr. Igasaki and Paul Steven Miller; the other two seats are now empty. The president also appoints a general counsel, who is in charge of litigation efforts and who has sometimes viewed his or her position as independent of the other commissioners. (That position has been vacant since December.) Regional offices, meanwhile, have had varying degrees of autonomy.
There is "a history of quiet warfare between the general counsel and the chair and the field offices that continues to this day," said Mr. Rowe of the Chicago office.
Critics say field offices vary in quality. Some, like New York and Chicago, have a strong litigation effort, while others seem less active in bringing lawsuits. Some may have other strengths, like Baltimore with its mediation program. But the consensus is that there is a decidedly mixed enforcement effort that lets many employers escape close scrutiny.
"It certainly seems that Silicon Valley, the high-technology industry, has gotten a pass," said Michael Selmi, a law professor at George Washington University and a frequent critic of the agency.
The E.E.O.C. has gotten "very, very few charges" from employees in the technology industry, said Mr. Igasaki, the vice chairman. But the agency is concerned about the possibility of discrimination in that area, he said.
The decision by Mr. Casellas to delegate more authority to the local level has also led to a wide variety of interpretations of the agency's mission. The offices "have had a free hand in setting their own agendas and courses," said Reginald E. Jones, a commissioner from 1996 to 2000 and now a lawyer at Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart in Washington. In some cases, he said, one office will pursue a different strategy than another on the same issue.
Mr. Igasaki agreed that this was a problem. "We need to be clear with the field on what is delegated and what is not," he said.
Coordination among regions also remains weak. The Chicago office, for instance, reached an agreement with the Ford Motor Company over complaints of sexual harassment at two area plants; in the deal, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to the employees who said they were harassed. But several similar complaints about some of the company's Michigan plants have not been litigated by the Detroit office, which has taken action against Ford in other matters.
Yet the Norfolk, Va., office did sue Ford earlier this year over similar accusations at a truck assembly plant there. In that case, which is still pending, Ford said its investigation of the complaints could not find anyone who might have been responsible for any harassment. The company has said it takes complaints of sexual harassment very seriously and is aggressively educating its employees on the issue.
In its defense, the agency points to a few examples of different offices working closely together on cases, including a 1997 disability discrimination suit brought by the San Francisco and Cleveland offices against the United Parcel Service. That case, which involves drivers with vision in one eye, is still pending. U.P.S. says it does not believe that this is a matter of discrimination, but of the safety of the driving public.
The commissioners acknowledge that more needs to be done to coordinate efforts. "These are very, very hard institutional issues to work through," said Mr. Miller, the commissioner.
EVEN when an issue is a clear priority, like protecting disabled employees, enforcement efforts often appear piecemeal.
The commission has sued Wal-Mart 16 times, most recently in June, because of complaints that the company was violating the rights of disabled employees. Only a handful of those cases have been resolved. The E.E.O.C. says it does not know at this point if the claims of discrimination at different stores reflect some companywide policy.
Wal-Mart says it has a strict policy against discrimination of any kind. Critics also say the agency has often failed to use its full power to attack the most systemic cases of discrimination. While the agency collects information from employers that can show discrimination patterns, it does not often use the data to file suits or to warn companies that they may be discriminating. The political sensitivity over quotas has made the E.E.O.C. and other agencies "cautious about numerical guides and standards," said Professor Blumrosen, despite what he believes is their legal authority to pursue cases on that basis.
The agency also remains backward in its use of technology to look at data. While it expects to upgrade its computer system soon, for now most people outside of headquarters cannot easily look up a specific company and see all the different discrimination complaints brought against it. "We use the data we have," Ms. Castro said. "We don't use it to the maximum extent."
WHILE the E.E.O.C. has been aggressive in bringing lawsuits on behalf of some people who might not bring them, like mentally retarded employees and illegal immigrants, it has been hesitant to use its resources to go after what may be the very worst offenders, critics say. When accusations surfaced of sex discrimination at Wal-Mart, for example, three private law firms joined forces with three nonprofit legal groups to come up with the resources to pursue the case and spent more than a year gathering evidence. 
The E.E.O.C. has also stayed on the sidelines of other high-profile cases, like a lawsuit against Xerox contending racial discrimination or the recent suit accusing Microsoft of racial and sexual bias. The agency says it may at times defer to private lawyers or work with them on cases involving the public interest.
The companies involved in these lawsuits deny the accusations.
The agency says it tries to represent individuals as well as pursue suits that may have larger impact. About a third of the cases it is choosing involve groups of people or accusations of systemic discrimination.
Critics also say the agency does not adequately follow up on remedies for discrimination once it has reached an agreement with an employer to do so. While the agency monitors repeated complaints, it typically does not initiate reviews. It did take Wal-Mart to court recently, accusing it of violating a settlement; Wal-Mart said it has made a good-faith effort to comply. 
With limited resources, some people at the agency say choices must be made. "There is a point at which you have to say 'next case,' " Mr. Rowe said.
Without greater support from both Republicans and Democrats, the E.E.O.C. may be destined to struggle along in this state. In many eyes, that appears likely.
"It seems that continual neglect is the preferred policy," said Professor Selmi of George Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush has nominated Cari M. Dominguez, a workplace consultant, as the next chairwoman of the oft-criticized Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); Signing the Civil Rights Act of 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson shook hands with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (United Press International); In 1983, the commission's chairman, Clarence Thomas, second from right, and other principals signed an agreement by General Motors to settle a complaint contending race and sex discrimination. (Associated Press); President George Bush signs the Civil Rights Act of 1991. (Paul Hoefros/The New York Times); Eleanor Holmes Norton became the first black woman appointed to head the commission, in 1977. She was chosen by President Jimmy Carter. (pg. 1); Ida L. Castro, appointed E.E.O.C. chairwoman by President Clinton in 1998, hired more investigators. (Susana Raab for The New York Times); "I still want the E.E.O.C. to be a powerful player," one that can take vigorous enforcement action, said Lynn Martin, former labor secretary.; Mitsubishi Motors executives conferred with their lawyer in 1998 at a news conference announcing settlement of a sexual harassment suit. (Associated Press)(pg. 12) Chart: "Watching the Workplace Over the Decades" 1964 -- The Civil Rights Act of 1964 createsthe Equal Employment OpportunityCommission. 1965 -- Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. serves asthe agency's first chairman. 1973 -- The E.E.O.C., the Justice and LaborDepartments and AT&T sign a consentdecree banning discriminatory practicesagainst women and minorities. Thesettlement gives $15 million to employeesand provides $30 million in immediate payincreases. 1974 -- In a second settlement, AT&Tprovides an additional $30 million in backpay and wage increases to minority andfemale employees. 1977 -- Eleanor Holmes Norton is the firstblack woman appointed to head thecommission. 1980 -- Ford Motor and the commission signan agreement in which Ford provideswomen and minorities $23 million tocompensate for refusing to hire or promotethem. 1983 -- General Motors and the United AutoWorkers agree to pay $42 million to resolvea claim by the commission of race and sexdiscrimination. 1990 -- President George Bush signs intolaw the Americans with Disabilities Act. 1991 -- The Civil Rights Act of 1991 allowsplaintiffs to recover compensatory andpunitive damages in intentionalemployment discrimination cases. 1991 -- AT&T Technologies agrees to pay$66 million to compensate employeesdiscriminated against during pregnancy. Itis the largest recovery in the commission'shistory. 1998 -- Mitsubishi Motor Manufacturing ofAmerica agrees to pay $34 million to settlean E.E.O.C. lawsuit contending thathundreds of women were sexuallyharassed. Astra USA agrees to pay nearly$10 million to resolve another commissionlawsuit contending that female employeeswere sexually harassed. 2000 -- CBS Broadcasting agrees to pay $8million to settle a sex discrimination lawsuitby the E.E.O.C. on behalf of 200 women. 2001 -- The commission seeks an injunctionto end genetic testing of employees byBurlington Northern Sante Fe Railroad.(pg. 1) Chart: "Mission Not Accomplished"Although financing for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has increased steadily, its staff has gradually shrunk and the agency has had a mixed record of achievement. Graphs shows figures for FUNDING RECEIVED; COMPLAINTS RECEIVED; MONETARY BENEFITS; and NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (Figures are not adjusted for inflation) from 1990-2000. (Source: U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WOMEN (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); INDECENT EXPOSURE (63%) LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; MINORITIES (US) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (94%) EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (72%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) ABELSON, REED; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



40 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: June 24-30; 
The Driving Force

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
Remember the energy crisis?
 Last month those words rolled off George W. Bush's lips daily as he toured the country pushing his plan to drill, deregulate, open up national forests to exploration and build power plants. 
 But that was before gasoline inventories surged to one of the highest levels in years, the result of a spring refining blitz and an economic slowdown that, in the last month, has driven American demand for petroleum down 4 percent compared with the same period last year. 
In the end, it is the economy that drives energy supplies and prices, not the other way around. Some of the roots of the "crisis" lie in Asia's economic troubles in 1997 and 1998: when demand in the fastest growing corners of the world collapsed, exploration and investment in new refineries faltered. When demand came back, the projects were revived, just as higher prices led power companies to start building more plants in California. 
The White House says none of this undercuts Mr. Bush's core message that over the long term America needs new energy supplies and electricity transmission capability. But after a series of polls showed that the public believes Mr. Bush is too enamored of drilling and not interested enough in conservation, the president who likes to say he never reads the polls became greener. He started a campaign against "energy vampires" -- appliances, like copiers and cell phone chargers, that use electricity even when idle. 
The White House announced, with great pride, that it had installed new, more efficient air conditioning equipment -- a project started in the first Bush administration, contracted out in the Clinton years and now completed. DAVID E. SANGER

GRAPHIC: Photo (C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); GASOLINE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVENTORIES (72%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



41 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Starts Filling In the Gaps in His Public Portrait 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg says he supports the posting of surveillance cameras in New York City parks to fight crime, but thinks that another of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's more distinctive initiatives -- erecting pedestrian barriers to control jaywalking -- has not worked.
 The Republican mayoral candidate says that he would push for salary increases for teachers, police officers and some other public workers, and that layoffs will be among the last things he will consider should the city encounter tough economic times. Drawing a distinct if unstated contrast with the Republican mayor he is seeking to succeed, Mr. Bloomberg makes it clear that cutting taxes will not be a priority if he is in the corner office at City Hall. He declines, though, to rule out raising any taxes. 
 Notwithstanding the fact that Mr. Bloomberg is seeking the Republican nomination for mayor, the candidate on display during a 70-minute interview at his sleek and spotless campaign headquarters last week appeared far closer to his Democratic rivals than to any Republican, including Mr. Giuliani himself. 
"I have little in common with them on a lot of the national issues," he said of the party he joined in anticipation of his first campaign for public office. "But a lot of the local issues, you know, last I checked, most Republicans believe in taking care of others and being fiscally responsible." 
Besides showing little appetite for building on Mr. Giuliani's tax cut plans (and saying that he, unlike Mr. Giuliani, would gladly meet with the Rev. Al Sharpton at City Hall), Mr. Bloomberg stressed his support for abortion rights, gay rights and gun control, as well as his opposition to the death penalty. And he said he disagreed with President Bush's push to drill for oil in the Arctic Circle and did not support Mr. Bush's decision to withdraw from the Kyoto treaty on global warming. 
At one point, Mr. Bloomberg even referred to himself as a liberal, as he said he disapproved of the suggestion by Alan G. Hevesi, a candidate for the Democratic nomination, that the city consider raising taxes to pay for improvements in the city's school system, should the economy go bad. "I have a right to be a liberal; I pay a lot of taxes, and it's my money, and I'm happy to do so," he said.
Through it all, Mr. Bloomberg dismissed suggestions that voters should choose a mayor based on ideology or political beliefs, pointing instead to his business experience. "You either think that my background and my skills are what the city needs now, or you don't," he said.
He spoke in a free-ranging discussion in a conference room at his expansive headquarters off Park Avenue, the latest in a series of interviews he has granted about his candidacy in recent days. The round of interviews is part of what his advisers say is a new phase in his campaign: an attempt by Mr. Bloomberg to fill in details about his political views and positions, many of which are unknown even to them. It is also part of an effort to present Mr. Bloomberg, who has had a very unsteady jump out of the gate these last few weeks, as being in command of issues that he will talk about again and again in the months ahead.
All of his opponents are public fixtures in New York, and their views and records in office are comparatively better known. Alone among the six major candidates in the two parties, including his rival for the Republican nomination, Herman Badillo, Mr. Bloomberg decided against making the traditional announcement speech in which candidates typically lay out their campaign themes.
He sipped coffee during the interview, attended by a single aide. He kept his jacket button fastened throughout the discussion. He was expansive, though he spoke at a pace that was rapid even by New York standards. He grew animated at one point when the subject turned to criticism of his decision to forgo the city's campaign finance system and use his own money to pay for his campaign.
Mr. Bloomberg, the former executive director of Bloomberg L.P., the giant financial information and media company, said he was prepared to spend a large amount of money, but he would not give a figure. His rivals say he has been spending close to $1 million a week on television advertisements. Yet he said he did not think it was possible to win with television advertisements alone.
"You cannot buy an election," he declared. "The statistics of self-financed candidates say three out of four lose. And the public is not that stupid." He added, "What money does is buy you media access to get your message out." 
Even with that, he continued, "You have to be out there, talking to people, shaking hands, giving speeches, debating eventually." 
In the course of the interview, he took pains not to criticize Mr. Giuliani, whose endorsement he is actively seeking, even as he suggested ways that he would be a different mayor. 
"I have a very different style," Mr. Bloomberg said. "Look, I don't want to knock Rudy. Rudy is very good in a crowd. If I were him, what I would have done -- or what I will do -- is to focus an awful lot more on building bridges, if you will."
He did distinguish himself from the Democratic candidates in one area, saying he did not believe that police used racial profiling to identify suspects, though he acknowledged that many residents say such police abuses are widespread. 
"There is no question that they fear them, but as Rudy would say, the numbers show that they have no reason to fear them," he said. "Rudy can make the case that not only have the police delivered lower crime, but they are under control. Having said that, it is also true that a vast, that a large percentage of the population does not feel as safe with the police, thinks that the police are too aggressive."
He said he was enjoying his first run for public office. "The other night," he said, "I was out there on Staten Island, and I thought, it will be really sad if you lose, because I love every minute of it." 
But he expressed frustration with some aspects of New York politics, like candidates' tendency to talk about national and international matters.
"Mayoral candidates should talk about what they can do in the city, with the money that is available, with the political clout, or the power given them by the City Charter," he said. "And if they spent their time on that and let those we elected to the federal government focus on national issues, we'd all be better off.
"I'm sure that Chuck and Hillary have opinions on traffic in New York City, but they should focus on immigration," he went on, referring to Senator Charles E. Schumer and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. "If you want to focus on immigration, run for federal office. If you want to focus on traffic, run for city office. Come on! It's easy to talk about somebody else's problem. That's why things don't get done."
Asked why, if those were his views, he visited with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel here last week in a meeting that was announced on his daily campaign schedule, Mr. Bloomberg responded: "He's a world leader, he's interesting. Why not go? Did I tell him how to run Israel's government? No."
His remarks reflected one major challenge he faces: to emphasize his Democratic views in a city that is overwhelmingly Democratic, without losing sight of the fact that he has to win an unpredictable Republican primary that involves a far smaller and more conservative segment of New York's electorate. Indeed, the state Conservative Party is about to begin broadcasting a 10-second television advertisement that mocks Mr. Bloomberg for suggesting last week that the job of a sanitation worker was more hazardous than that of a police officer.
He left little doubt that his decision to switch party registration was born of pragmatism rather than philosophy, after he considered the chances of winning the nomination of the party he had belonged to for most of his life. "I certainly looked at it very carefully," he said. "An outsider would have no chance of getting through."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg in his spacious campaign headquarters off Park Avenue. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); ABORTION (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



42 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Nathan's Famous Inc. Posts Record Revenues
 Nathan's Famous Inc. (Nasdaq: NATH) of Westbury has reported that total revenues increased by 24.5 percent to a record $47.2 million for the fiscal year ending March 25, compared with $37.9 for the previous year. 
 Part of the increase came from the Miami Subs corporation and Kenny Rogers Roasters, which Nathan's Famous acquired during the year. The company incurred charges of $2.3 million relating to the acquisitions. 
Pretax earnings were $3 million, compared with a pretax loss of $1.5 million for the prior year. Net earnings were $1.6 million, or 23 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $1.27 million. 
Wayne Norbitz, the president and chief operating officer, said: "We have completed integrating Miami Subs and Kenny Rogers Roasters into our company and continue to improve our entire system's performance by capitalizing on our new economies of scale and co-branding strategy. Currently, over 100 of our restaurants, systemwide, have taken advantage of our co-branding strategy by introducing one or more of our additional brands."
Mr. Norbitz said that during the last fiscal year the company ended 15 leases at unprofitable locations in connection with the Miami Subs acquisition. The company also sold franchises for eight company-owned locations and closed six other outlets. 
Nathan's Famous now has 25 company-owned outlets and 386 franchised or licensed operations. Its products are sold in 1,200 stores, ballparks and other locations in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 16 foreign countries.

Around the Island
 Shareholders of New York Community Bancorp Inc. (Nasdaq: NYCB) of Westbury and the Richmond County Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: RCBK) of Staten Island approved the merger of the two companies on June 20. If regulatory approvals are forthcoming, the merger is expected to be completed in the third quarter. . . . Allou Health & Beauty Care Inc. (Amex: ALU) of Brentwood has reported revenues increased to $545 million in the last fiscal year, ending in March, from $421 million the prior year. The company also announced that it has appointed Arthur Andersen as its accounting firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BRANDING (72%); FRANCHISORS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (96%); MIAMI SUBS CORP (84%); NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (66%); RICHMOND COUNTY FINANCIAL CORP (65%); ALLOU HEALTHCARE INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC 

TICKER: NATH (NASDAQ) (96%); NYCB (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (66%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (64%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001 



43 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Selling a Vision Of the Future Beyond Folders

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
The fawning introducers burbled. The rock music blared. And out of the wings of the vast auditorium at PC Expo, New York's glitziest high-technology trade show, walked the computer scientist David Gelernter.
 His stocky frame, mop of curly hair and look of distracted intensity made him seem a little like a lost graduate student, someone who might have wandered onto the stage while looking for the pretzel stand. But by the standards of the computing world, Mr. Gelernter is a rock star. 
 One of the truly certified Smart Guys, he pioneered technologies in the 1980's at Yale University that allow computers to collaborate -- what is now known by the buzz phrase peer-to-peer computing. He is also an accomplished painter and a writer of fiery social criticism, whose essays and fiction appear in such publications as The Weekly Standard and Commentary. 
Last Thursday on the stage at PC Expo, he was trying to show that he can also be an entrepreneur. Professor Gelernter, 46, founder and chief scientist at Mirror Worlds Technologies, wore a black suit, striped shirt and a tie the color of ancient parchment. He also wore a brown leather glove covering the remnants of his right hand -- the most visible of the critical injuries he sustained in 1993 after opening a package sent by Theodore Kaczynski, the terrorist known as the Unabomber.
Mr. Kaczynski thought of himself as a revolutionary; but David Gelernter is the real thing. Though he rarely gives speeches, Professor Gelernter captivated the crowd with an hourlong performance that was deliberately provocative and salted with laugh lines. 
The time has come, he said, to fix a problem that has not been addressed in some 15 years: Computers are lousy at organizing our information; the antiquated system of sorting documents into folders and trying to maintain order has fallen apart. 
"Working together, named files and hierarchical folders have turned modern desktop computers into electronic versions of a 1940 Steelcase file cabinet," he said. "We do the filing; we do the organizing; we do the retrieving. Why do we put up with it? How many of us wanted to grow up to be file clerks?"
Fixing the file folder system might seem like an awfully small target for one of the most respected figures in computer science. But the issue and the design decisions that led to this current state of affairs are as fundamental to computing as they are intractable. 
And now Mr. Gelernter wants to sell us all a solution: Scopeware, a set of computing tools for helping information organize itself in ways that users can readily understand. The system, which made its debut in March, takes all the documents of a business (or, in a version still to come, of a single user) and works quietly alongside current software to organize every new document into a "stream" in the order the documents are created. 
Onscreen, the stream looks like a long row of icons receding into the past: word processing, e-mail, presentations, spreadsheets and more, identified by little symbols and a few words. Move the cursor over any document and a representation of it shows up in the lower right corner of the screen; a mouse click brings the full document up in its original form. The stream can be dipped into, and the documents sorted in a number of ways through powerful search tools.
The Mirror Worlds team has designed the system to accommodate business computer networks, mobile laptops and hand-held devices, diverting the stream wherever it is needed. The effect of having everything in one place, Professor Gelernter says, is a new ease in finding individual documents that are now scattered among many applications. More important, he says, the stream forms a kind of narrative: it tells a story.
"We sometimes forget that the basics of information management don't change," he said. "We think and talk and listen; we read and write and look at pictures. That was the essence of information management in the 13th century, and it still is today. Computers can put us in touch with the world and, more important, with ourselves." 
Professor Gelernter says he is not selling his wares so much as a new vision of the future. "It would be crazy to predict that Scopeware will emerge as the winner in the changing world of information management," he told the audience. "But I will predict this: Scopeware's properties are the properties that a winning system will need, and the direction Scopeware points is the right direction." 
In fact, little of Professor Gelernter's critique is new. And many companies have worked to solve the problem. Many companies are scrambling to offer products in the technology niche known as knowledge management. But something about Scopeware grabs people. 
The author and technology commentator George Gilder grew even more hyperbolic than usual after getting a look. "To try the Gelernter system is to fall in love with it," he wrote in the May issue of the Gilder Technology Report newsletter. "It is elegant, easy, natural and beautiful. It will prevail." 
Is it crazy to try to start a revolution in computing at a time when everyone else appears to be hunkering down, and when Microsoft, coming off last week's appeals court ruling, seems as dominant as ever?
There was precious little in the glittering booths at PC Expo that claimed to break with the past; most of the products on display were designed to do what people already do, but a little more efficiently or powerfully. But, as Michael Satow, the chief executive of Mirror Worlds, says, "That's the best time to go on the offensive -- when everyone else is on the defensive." 
For his part, Professor Gelernter has come a long way since that terrible day in 1993 when he opened a mysterious package delivered to his Yale office. The explosion left him scarred, partly blinded and deaf in one ear. In an e-mail response to a few personal questions, he wrote: "I can do what I need to do (be with my family, help educate my boys, paint, write, make a living). My hand hurts continuously but not acutely. Mainly this sort of thing just runs your energy down & down & down. By early evening I'm more or less dead on my feet." 
He doesn't let the past burden him; Mr. Kaczynski is "still a topic of no interest to me," he wrote.
"Victimhood is a state you accept or reject, and I'm still the farthest thing on earth from a victim." 
If anything, he continued, the attack has left him with a renewed sense of purpose -- an urge to wrestle everything there is out of every day, whether the time is spent with a canvas, with family or on Scopeware. 
But he said he also knew that he was not the only driven person in the technology business. "There are lots of devoted fanatics out there, and it doesn't take getting blown up by a bomb to make you believe intensely that what you have is important, is coming, is exactly right." 
He craves success for Scopeware, and "the inevitable clarifying intensity that follows coming to work one morning & almost dying DOES have something to do with it." 
Despite everything, Professor Gelernter wrote, he is one of the fortunate ones. "I can't claim that everything's turned out exactly as I'd hoped; far from it." 
Still, "as Fred Astaire tells Joan Leslie in 'The Sky's the Limit,' 'I couldn't be luckier than I am tonight.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Galernter says computers organize information very poorly. (Krista Niles/The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); WRITERS (68%); TERRORISM (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PC EXPO (TRADE SHOW); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: STEELCASE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%) MIRROR WORLDS TECHNOLOGIES 

TICKER: SCS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; GELERNTER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



44 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Advertising; 
The upfront market for TV time gets curiouser and curiouser with CBS's claims on performance.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS the broadcast television networks suffer a substantial decline in the amount of money coming in as they finish selling commercials ahead of the fall prime-time season, a vituperative dispute has erupted over the success or failure of the risky strategy that one network, CBS, pursued in negotiating with the media agencies that make the buying decisions.
 All participants in the high-stakes talks, known as the upfront market, agree that it is concluding with an estimated $6.9 billion to $7 billion worth of commercial time sold ahead of the 2001-2002 season, down more than 13.5 percent from the $8 billion to $8.1 billion sold last year. The economic slowdown is the reason given for the shortfall, the most significant since the upfront market for the 1993-1994 season. 
 But what makes this market the most bizarre bazaar in many years are the loud challenges to the veracity of CBS's assertions that it successfully stuck to a strategy to sell only at higher rates than last season, while its principal competitors -- ABC, Fox Broadcasting and NBC -- cut rates to make sales.
The disagreements go well beyond the typical spirited debate that takes place as buyers and sellers seek to burnish the perception of their performances in the upfront market. 
Executives at many media agencies along with executives at ABC, Fox and NBC, who acknowledge they sold commercial time at lower rates than they charged last season, are saying that CBS made deals, too, despite insisting it would not.
"It was a buyer's market," said William Cella, executive vice president for broadcast and programming at Universal McCann in New York, and CBS "was as affordable as everyone else out there." Universal McCann is the media services division of the McCann-Erickson World Group, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"It's somewhat illogical to think" one network "could have such an out-of-market experience" from the others, said Jon Mandel, co-managing director at MediaCom in New York, owned by the Grey Global Group. 
Leslie Moonves, chief executive of CBS Television in Los Angeles, owned by Viacom, said: "We're very pleased with how we came out this year. We could have sold more, but not at the prices we wanted."
As for the attacks, "I think people are underestimating the amount of money that's shifting to CBS this year," he added.
To be sure, there is no law prohibiting a network from boasting that it outmaneuvered the agencies and its rivals when it did not, just as nothing prevents an agency from bragging about a negotiating acumen it did not possess. After all, the numbers involved are mostly estimated, subject to change once the season gets under way; for instance, there are escape clauses enabling agencies to relinquish commercial time they bought in the upfront market if clients change their minds about needing the spots during the season.
"Unlike Wall Street, which is a regulated business where you can't tout, here spin is a part of shaping perceptions," said Joe Mandese, editor of Media Buyer's Daily, a newsletter being introduced by Brill Media Holdings in New York.
"You won't find PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young" certifying the figures, he added. "The upfront is a moving target, subject to interpretation, and the numbers are revised and adjusted many, many times before they are reported" months from now to the services that track ad spending.
But in the tight-knit community in which the upfront market takes place, most participants honor a longtime, unwritten agreement against spinning your achievements to hyperbolically unrealistic levels.
"If buyers and sellers are saying" they dispute CBS's account that the network was getting rate increases, "it's hard to argue," said Jack Myers, chief economist at Myers Reports in New York, which publishes media and research newsletters.
"It's going to be interesting to see what comes out of the woodwork after the Fourth of July," he added. "This upfront is the strangest any of us have been through."
CBS executives said the network was gaining slight increases of 1 percent to 2 percent in the rates charged for every 1,000 viewers, known as cpm's, compared with the rates charged during the upfront market last season.
Several media directors, however, said the buys they made on CBS were negotiated at rates that decreased from around 3 percent to 6 percent. That discrepancy may be because CBS, when pressed by customers with particularly large ad budgets, agreed to deals at lower rates.
By comparison, media directors and network executives said, ABC, owned by the Walt Disney Company, sold commercials at cpm's that fell an estimated 7 percent to 8 percent; Fox, part of the News Corporation, at rates down an about 3 percent to 4 percent; and NBC, a division of General Electric, at rates down around 5 percent to 6 percent.
When the upfront market began in mid-May, all the big networks insisted they would hold firm and not cut rates. That produced a buyers' strike, which froze the market until last week when NBC reversed course and started making deals at lower rates, followed by ABC, then Fox.
NBC led the four large networks in total sales with an estimated $1.9 billion to $2 billion, compared with $2.2 billion last season. ABC, which led last season with $2.3 billion, ended up with an estimated $1.6 billion. Fox was flat compared with last season at an estimated $1.3 billion.
And CBS? Good question. The network's own estimates of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion were also challenged by the other networks and the media executives, though nowhere near as vociferously as CBS's declaration of making deals at higher rates.
Some estimates for CBS were as low as $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion, though others touched $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion if sponsorships of the hit series "Survivor" were included.
Even if CBS did that well, the total would still be lower than the estimated $1.6 billion the network sold in the upfront market last season.
"CBS airtime has always had a much lower value in the market place" because the network's older viewership is less desirable to many marketers, Mr. Mandese said, so the popularity of its new Thursday lineup, including "Survivor" and "C.S.I.," led network executives to hope "it would be time for payback."
"They said, 'We deserve merit pay,' but unfortunately it's a buyer's market," he added. "So they had to take a marginal discount" in cpm's.
(As for the two smaller broadcast networks, WB, owned by AOL-Time Warner and the Tribune Company, sold an estimated $475 million, compared with $425 million, at rate increases estimated at 4 percent to 5 percent. UPN, also owned by Viacom, is still selling, because it too had insisted on selling only at higher rates; some estimates are that UPN, which sold $150 million last season, had sold only $30 million to $50 million so far, at slight rate increases.)
Another point of divergence between CBS and its large counterparts is its decision to sell less commercial time in the upfront market and more during the season, in what is known as the scatter market. ABC, Fox and NBC, by contrast, are doing the opposite because they would rather make deals now than gamble that the economy will improve later this year and early next year.
"We have confidence the advertising market is going to get better," Mr. Moonves said, "and we expect to do well in scatter."
CBS sold an estimated 65 percent of its inventory, compared with 70 percent to 75 percent at the other large networks.
"The big question now is how much money has been earmarked for scatter," said Dan Rank, managing partner at OMD in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, because if it turns out that advertisers preferred to spend more in the upfront market, CBS will lag behind as the season goes on.
"People have made some smart buys because ultimately the networks acknowledged that supply did outstrip demand and responded appropriately," he added. "Still, it's gone from the most fascinating upfront I've seen to the weirdest upfront I've seen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (65%); MANDEL CO (63%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); VIACOM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CBS CORP; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; ABC INC; FOX NETWORK 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (63%); SIC2796 PLATEMAKING & RELATED SERVICES (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (58%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (87%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



45 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: The Military Spending Crunch 

 BODY:
Last week the Bush administration added a further $18 billion to its Pentagon budget request for next year, bringing the total to $329 billion. That is a lot to be spending on defense programs in a world where America confronts no superpower rivals. Yet most of the latest additions are reasonable, with the bulk of the $18 billion going for improvements in military pay, housing and health care, training and spare parts. There is also new money for additional research and testing of missile defenses. 
 Still, this increase builds upon an earlier one, and if Congress approves the full request, as seems likely, next year's military spending will be $33 billion more than this year's, the biggest one-year increase since the Reagan buildup in the early 1980's. Even bigger spending jumps are anticipated in the following year's defense budget, which will be drawn up after completion of the ambitious reviews of strategy and weapons requirements ordered by President Bush this spring. Those are likely to call for expensive and futuristic new weapons programs. With the recently enacted tax cut and a weakening economy eroding future budget surpluses, Washington cannot afford repeated big increases in defense spending. 
 Although the United States already has the world's most advanced weapons, continued investment in modernization is needed to keep the armed forces prepared for the rapidly changing military needs of the future. The Navy needs lighter and faster ships. The Army needs lighter artillery pieces and smaller tanks. The Air Force needs more pilotless drones. 
To pay for these needs, the Pentagon will have to eliminate obsolete weapons systems designed for cold war needs, including some just now entering into production. There is also a strong case for trimming the overall size of the armed forces to fit their likely new missions. One purpose of the current Pentagon reviews is to target appropriate areas for such savings.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's recent calls for retiring a third of the Air Force's obsolete B-1 bombers, dismantling 50 MX multiple warhead missiles and closing scores of unneeded military bases are a good start. But more aggressive cutting will be needed, much of it likely to arouse fierce Congressional opposition from affected districts. Military modernization will be affordable only if the Bush administration proposes and then fights for deep cuts in Pentagon programs that have outlived their usefulness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (96%); BUDGETS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (76%); APPROVALS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (54%); US NAVY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



46 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
The New Patriotism

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

 BODY:
My compatriots:
At a poolside gathering on the Fourth of July some years ago, the then-Librarian of Congress Daniel Boorstin asked Chief Justice William Rehnquist to read aloud the Declaration of Independence.
 Rehnquist rose, buttoned his loud sport shirt to add a semblance of formality, and began. Halfway though the angry enumeration of wrongs done the colonists by King George III, he interrupted his reading to observe: "This is quite an indictment." 
 This week we will be celebrating a holiday that has come to be known as "the Fourth of July." Why do we celebrate only the day and not the idea behind its real name? "Independence Day" commemorates the treasonous gamble our forefathers took in issuing the inflammatory indictment justifying their separation. 
As the Fourth became mainly barbecues and fireworks, the idea of national sovereignty -- independence -- has become controversial, no longer such an unalloyed virtue. 
We are taught that pride in independence is arrogant except in the case of the weak. Its opposite, interdependence, is now the passion of the elites: As "travelers on the Earth together," we are members of one world, one planetary family, transfixed by the notion that national aspirations and powers should defer to a loose, global government driven by the power of world opinion. 
The gutsy nationalists of 1776 were well aware of that power, even citing "a decent respect for the opinions of mankind" in their declaration. But our framers enlisted it on the side of independence, of one people's expression of freedom from oppression. The creation of the United States was modern history's greatest act of disunion. 
The breakaway act spawned American patriotism. That word is rooted in the Greek pater, "father." Our patrimony is the legacy of our ancestors; our patriotism is our love of fatherland or motherland. Patriotism is a devotion to the culture, tradition and way of life unique to our nation. 
In Europe today, we see the systematic breakdown of patriotism. On that continent, where an excess of nationalist fervor and misguided patriotism led to devastating wars, the trend is toward amalgamation of nations. An economic Euro-patriotism that supersedes all national interests may ultimately homogenize what are now distinctive cultures and disparate interests. 
That's Europe's choice; thanks partly to the colonies that broke away 225 years ago to become independent, it's a free continent, free to establish a continent-state. But Europe's march toward interdependence, combined with the needful embrace of interdependence by dependent nations elsewhere, has led to a distrust of America's national independence.
That accounts for the eager espousal of "multilateralism," the consensus of the lowest and slowest common denominator. The fall from fashion of independence also accounts for the condemnation of "unilateralism" by those envious of American success or worried about U.S. free competition -- or by Americans uneasy about sole-superpower status who find surcease from shame in self-flagellation.
Here we are, then, on Independence Day, all too often feeling the need to salve our conscience for any assertion of our sovereignty and to justify our glorious independence. 
Is the word "glorious" troubling? A touch too triumphalist? It is a staple of Fourth of July oratory, associated with the nickname of the flag, "Old Glory," and of the lyric to "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." But applied to our breakthrough in the consent of the governed, glorious is immodest, un-humble and (only whisper this) 100 percent apt. 
Time for a new patriotism with less bombast but profound pride.
America's independence and our power give us the right to decide what is best for our national security; many of us believe that is also best for international security. 
Our independence and our prosperity give us the opportunity to lead the world by our example: free enterprise bounded by the rule of law produces the most for the many.
Our independence and our historic moral concern give us the freedom to support human rights anywhere.
When Rufus Choate derided such Fourth of July oratory evoking the Declaration's "glittering generalities," Ralph Waldo Emerson shot back: "Glittering generalities? They are blazing ubiquities!" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4) 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



47 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: After Patients' Rights: Vast Needs, Higher Hurdles 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1 

 BODY:
The patients' rights legislation that cleared the Senate last week is the product of five years of struggle to overcome intense industry opposition and brutal partisan maneuvering. But in the world of health policy, this was supposed to be the easy one.
 Ahead lies the more complicated -- and more costly -- challenge of providing prescription drug benefits to the 39 million elderly and disabled people in the Medicare program. And there is the even more fundamental issue of the 43 million Americans who have no health insurance. 
 So vast are these needs that some health experts question why so much time and energy have been devoted to the patients' rights legislation, which has yet to be voted on by the House. "I think it was a ridiculous diversion of political energy that distracts from the truly shocking problems of the American health care system -- the uninsured, the elderly without drugs and the medical error problem," said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton. Stuart Butler, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation, described the bill as "almost completely irrelevant."
But since the collapse of the Clinton plan for universal health insurance in 1994, few politicians have the stomach for tackling more than one health care problem at a time. And there was a broad consensus among elected officials, consumers and health care professionals that a patients' rights bill was a necessary corrective to 10 years of change in the marketplace, which pushed most Americans, like it or not, into some form of managed care.
By the late 1990's, there was a clear and rising anger among the public, an unmistakable backlash against the "H.M.O. bureaucrats" who were suddenly making so many decisions on medical care, from the choice of a specialist to the appropriate length of a hospital stay.
Even before the bill becomes law -- it still faces many hurdles, including resistance among House Republican leaders and a presidential veto threat -- the public debate has had consequences. Forty-five states have passed some version of a patients' bill of rights in the last decade, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. And the industry began to react to consumer demands for more choices and flexibility.
"The national debate has accomplished a great deal, and the passage of the bill will as well," said Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, an influential voice on health issues. "It will raise the bar on acceptable practices by insurance companies. Does that improve quality? Absolutely. If I am not intimidated by my health plan from getting necessary care, that will improve the quality."
In the incremental politics of health care, in fact, the current bill ranks as one of two major accomplishments of recent years, the other being the Children's Health Insurance Program, argued Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. "It's not an insignificant thing to formalize in federal law these protections," Dr. Altman said, "so that the protections don't depend on the H.M.O. or the state they're in." 
Still, the difficulty in getting this far with this bill is cautionary for the rest of the health care agenda, particularly for the coming debate on prescription drug benefits. And the legislative course of patients rights is still murky, with House Republican leaders arguing on Sunday that their version of the bill has a better chance of becoming law.
While prescription drugs have become increasingly important in medicine, and increasingly used by the elderly, the 36-year-old Medicare program provides no coverage for outpatient prescription drugs. Many of the elderly have supplemental coverage for drug benefits, through their former employers or through a health maintenance organization, but those benefits are often limited. And more than a quarter of the elderly have no drug coverage at all.
Like patients' rights, the prescription drug issue has been bubbling at the grass roots for years, and has proven political power in Congressional elections. But creating a drug benefit is, potentially, far more of a drain on the federal budget. And it touches on some of the deepest divisions between the parties. "Prescription drugs is much harder than the patient bill of rights," said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a consumer advocacy group.
Among the questions: Should the benefit be available to all Medicare beneficiaries, or reserved for those with the lowest incomes and the greatest needs? Should the benefit be added to Medicare, or be available through private insurance companies, encouraged by subsidies? How generous should the benefit be? Most benefits under consideration fall far short of what working Americans receive. And, perhaps most divisive of all, should the benefit be linked to structural changes in Medicare? 
Many Republicans believe that Medicare needs an overhaul to become more of a marketplace, in which the traditional program is one of many health plans competing for the elderly's business. Many Democrats are suspicious of any moves toward privatizing a popular government program. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Friday that it would become "increasingly apparent" that such structural changes in Medicare "will not take place."
Democrats, emboldened by their success on the patients' bill of rights, are expected to push on prescription drugs in the coming months. The Bush administration is expected to offer its Medicare proposal -- with structural changes in the broader program -- this summer.
The partisan struggle will be rough enough, but several analysts note that the industry interests are as formidable as those that were brought to bear on the patients' rights legislation -- namely, the pharmaceutical lobby, which fears that a benefit directly in the Medicare program will lead inexorably to government controls and pressures on prices. Asked why it took so long to get the patients' rights bill this far, Senator John McCain, the leading Republican supporter, answered, "Special interests, special interests, special interests -- and big money."
Then there is the question of the uninsured. Senate Democrats vowed Friday to move forward on this issue, through such means as an expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program, perhaps to cover the parents of low-income children already enrolled. President Bush is proposing tax cuts to help families buy insurance. A package combining those approaches is a possibility this year, many say.
But Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, acknowledged that these would be incremental approaches. "We're relegated to that for now," he said.
In health care, post-1994, nothing comes easily -- not even the supposedly easy ones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); VETO (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INSURANCE (75%); HOSPITALS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); LITIGATION (63%); CHILDREN (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AGED; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; PRIVACY; HANDICAPPED; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: BEN CARDIN (58%) TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



48 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: China's Leader Urges Opening Communist Party to Capitalists 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 1 

 BODY:
China's president and Communist Party general secretary, Jiang Zemin, marked the 80th birthday of the party today by declaring that private business owners and other members of China's increasingly diverse society ought to be allowed to join.
 Mr. Jiang's statement, delivered in a two-hour speech from Beijing's Great Hall of the People on Tiananmen Square, throws weight behind one side of an intense debate within the party over its future. 
 With the country's small private sector growing faster than any other part of the economy, many reformist party members have argued that private businessmen should be allowed into the Communist Party, the 65-million-strong club that wields absolute political power in the country. 
It also signals that the trend of relaxing restrictions on the private sector is likely to continue. 
With many of the country's state-owned enterprises foundering despite years of efforts to turn them around, China's leaders have recognized the importance of private businesses in absorbing the state sector's excess workers and in improving the economy's global competitiveness as the country prepares to enter the World Trade Organization. Private companies, for example, are now free to list their shares on the country's stock markets, although the pace of such listings is excruciatingly slow.
"This is a path-breaking speech in redefining the role of the party and its relationship to the rest of society," said Dali L. Yang, a political science professor at the University of Chicago. "It will be seen as a fundamental document setting the tone for rebuilding the party."
Eighty years after its founding in Shanghai in July 1921, the world's largest communist party is struggling to remain relevant in a country that has largely abandoned Marxism and is trying instead to create a hybrid socialist-capitalist system more relevant to an age in which its citizens are increasingly connected to the outside world via the Internet and other forms of communication. 
During the last year, Mr. Jiang has promoted increased representation of the party in areas of society that have been neglected or have undergone the most change. Even under Mao Zedong, the government protected select "red capitalists" such as Rong Yiren, who later became vice president of the country. But few of those people were allowed to join the party
But allowing private businessmen into the party could fundamentally alter the organization's character and lead to factionalism, which might someday provide the framework for a multiparty system. At the very least, it would further weaken the party's already shaky ideological underpinning, which most concerns those party members on the other side of the debate.
"We must uphold the purity of the party," Lin Yanzhi, a deputy secretary of Jilin Province and the son of a revolutionary leader, said in The Pursuit of Truth, a small magazine that often serves as a sounding board for traditional Marxists. "The Communist Party cannot absorb capitalists into it. If these people really join the party they will use their strength to first seize power within the party and to change the party's nature."
Until Mr. Jiang's speech, the party's top leadership had not made any public statements on their position in the debate. And in calling for broader criteria in admitting party members, he sought to assuage hard-liners by insisting that "party members from among the workers, farmers, intellectuals, military personnel and officials, are the most basic components and core force of the party's ranks."
He also called on party members to "resolutely resist the influence of the Western multiparty system."
But hard-line Marxists are now a small minority within the party, and many party members have already gone into the private sector as employees of private companies or as private business owners themselves. 
Mr. Jiang went on to say that given the changes in the Chinese economy, "We cannot simplistically use whether people have property and how much property they have as a criterion to determine whether they are politically advanced or backward."
He said that "social strata" have emerged that include entrepreneurs, owners of private enterprises and employees of foreign firms who "make contributions to developing socialism's productive forces and its other endeavors through honest labor and work." These people should be given a chance to join the party, he said.
Mr. Yang of the University of Chicago said, "If the party can accommodate the best and brightest and most economically influential and at the same time curb corruption, another focus of the speech, it will be able to extend its dominance over an extended time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jiang Zemin of China marked 80 years of Communism. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TRENDS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRIVATIZATION 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JIANG ZEMIN; SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); EAST CHINA (89%); NORTHEAST CHINA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (70%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



49 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: In Bronx, an Antipoverty Empire Tries to Shed a Power-Broker Past 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Amid the cheering crowds, blaring music and billowing flags at the National Puerto Rican Day Parade three weeks ago, a quiet drama unfolded, not visible in any activity along the route. It presented itself in two absences.
 For the first time in 35 years, Ramon S. Velez, who helped build the parade into both a cultural institution and a lucrative commercial enterprise, did not march. A float broadcasting his voice traveled the route instead. And for the first time in almost as long, the nonprofit social services giant that Mr. Velez founded and fashioned into a political machine displayed no contingent either.
 Without formal notice, a page had turned in the history of the South Bronx, and of the Puerto Rican presence in New York. 
For some three decades, Mr. Velez presided as the pre-eminent antipoverty baron of the South Bronx, whose operation controlled everything from school boards to jobs to many of the Bronx's elected officials, as well as millions of government dollars. He was praised for securing the South Bronx's fair share of the War on Poverty's milk and honey, for building up institutions like Lincoln Hospital and for boldly asserting Puerto Rican pride and power.
He was also accused of strong-arming rivals, be they political opponents or other social service organizations, and turning his fief into a patronage mill. He was lambasted for growing rich while serving the poor, and for serving them badly. And he was investigated dozens of times but never indicted, a fact he wore as a curious badge of honor.
But now Mr. Velez, 68, is in a Manhattan hospital, suffering from Alzheimer's disease. His decline over the past few years, first gradual and then precipitous, put his main organization, the Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, up for grabs, causing a succession struggle that pitted deputies, allies and his son and daughter against one another. Last year, it led to Mr. Velez's own board's deposing him and placing him on permanent medical leave.
When the dust settled this spring, a new man, an outsider, was at the helm of the center, which has been both neighborhood anchor and investigative lightning rod since its inception in 1967. Mr. Velez's successor, Manuel A. Rosa, is more government bureaucrat than political kingmaker. He says he is determined to shore up the center's finances and to remove all suggestions of impropriety from the organization, and its absence from the parade was a first step. His board, he said, wanted to distance itself from some of Mr. Velez's practices, among them using his social-service employees for parade and political work.
"I want to be as fair to the history as I can," Mr. Rosa said, "but I also want to tell people this is a new day for Hunts Point Multi-Service. This organization is too important to lose."

Symbol of Broader Change
The end of Mr. Velez's personal reign is seen, in some quarters, as a symbol of broader change in the Bronx and beyond. 
The field of health care has become much more competitive and more costly. Mr. Velez's operating principle -- that the number of government dollars gained equaled effective assistance to the poor -- has been seriously undermined. Bronx politics, which he once controlled ruthlessly, has become a much livelier free-for-all. And the city's Puerto Rican population -- the bedrock of Hunts Point's client base, and Mr. Velez's political base -- is declining as that of other Hispanic groups grows.
"Whether you thought good or ill of Mr. Velez, you had to concede that his clout made Puerto Ricans impossible to ignore," said Angelo Falcon, senior policy executive at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. "It is the equivalent of a major change down at City Hall. It's a very critical point in the history of Puerto Rican politics in the Bronx and the city."
There are two Puerto Ricans, Fernando Ferrer and Herman Badillo, running for mayor. But each faces the challenge of mounting a broader pitch to a city whose Latino makeup is much more varied than when Mr. Velez was at the peak of his power. 
And some things have not changed much. Mr. Velez's son and daughter, although essentially exiled from his flagship medical operation, each have jobs running other organizations their father started. The last months of Mr. Velez's reign saw behind-the-scenes deal-making and maneuvering not uncharacteristic of Mr. Velez himself in his heyday.
And across the Bronx and the city, many local organizations that rose in Mr. Velez's wake continue to thrive. Not a few of their leaders copied his practice of empowering, and even enriching, themselves through those outfits. 
As for Mr. Velez, his own history is lost to him. His daughter says he recognizes her and his wife, but few others. Until a recent surgery, he still shook hands and smiled like the politician he once was, but the gestures have been emptied of meaning. He is a blank canvas on which others now sketch their interpretations of his life and legacy.
The bare facts are agreed upon. Mr. Velez came to New York from Puerto Rico in the early 1960's. He was 28, born before the mass migration from the island to New York began. A social worker, he recognized both need and opportunity in the thousands of Puerto Ricans pouring into the Bronx. Starting with a $50,000 grant for a health clinic, he soon expanded into everything from housing to Head Start educational programs, although health care always remained at his operation's center.

Money and Power Flow
The millions from the War on Poverty and later government efforts -- more than $300 million, by Mr. Velez's estimate -- flowed, and his power flowered. With hundreds of employees, and thousands of patients and clients, he had a ready-made campaign machine, used for Republicans and Democrats alike. Presidents, governors and mayors sought his counsel and saw to it that the dollars kept coming.
There was no disputing that some of those dollars flowed into Mr. Velez's pockets. Besides an array of nonprofit organizations, he established for-profit corporations that provided the nonprofits with service or space, often at noncompetitive rates. Critics said ordinary people suffered from the shortfalls, enduring mediocre services for years.
Today, Hunts Point runs three clinics, including one housed in a new building, as well as a methadone clinic, day care programs and programs for the elderly, and more -- a total of 23 government-financed programs. It has 380 employees, from well-compensated executives to social workers. Although Mr. Velez's influence waned somewhat in recent years, the money still flowed in, including more than $6 million in federal funds secured by Representative Jose E. Serrano, long backed by Mr. Velez, to build housing for the elderly, and about $20 million in city contracts in the past two years. 
But then Mr. Velez fell ill, and the succession intrigue began. His daughter, Marisa Velez, 29, presided over Hunts Point for six months last year, before, she says, she was tricked into resigning by others in the organization. She was replaced by a Velez deputy, William Frame, and then a few months later, by her half brother, Ramon Velez Jr. In between came a board meeting, from which she was barred, and at which her father was placed on permanent medical leave -- with the approval of her half brother.
To her and her mother it was a demeaning denouement. Her father always tried to help the sick, Ms. Velez said. "Then when he came down with illness, he was treated in such a poor manner by the people he helped, the people he put on the board. Because they wanted power, they really degraded him."
Her father, she said, still has no retirement package, although she concedes that he managed to accumulate a private pension of well over $1 million.
Those who made the decision to remove Mr. Velez, her brother among them, say they were trying to protect his legacy. "I had to do what I had to do at the moment," Mr. Velez Jr. said.
Mr. Velez Jr. left Hunts Point Multi-Service in January, and its board began an open search for a new director. Marisa Velez applied for her old job. She did not get it. Mr. Rosa did.
Raised in the Bronx, schooled in Maine, he earns praise from almost all quarters as honest and earnest. He has worked for government officials and government agencies -- most recently the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, where he was an assistant vice president. He is more interested in lobbying in government offices than in trying to determine who occupies them.
"Not my style," he said of politics.

Scrutinizing Every Dollar
He is gingerly trying to respect what Mr. Velez did while essentially turning it on its head. He is conducting a top-to-bottom review of the organization. He plans to cut costs and reorganize. He will not rule out layoffs -- a sharp departure at a place where loyalty once guaranteed employment. With the board's mandate, he is scrutinizing every dollar, including vendor contracts that may or may not be linked to Velez enterprises.
"The board has pretty much made a decision to try to remove itself from anything that will raise questions in that fashion," he said.
The motivation is as much practical as philosophical. Government revenues are harder to get and harder to keep. And the health care landscape has changed significantly over the last decade. The rate at which the government pays for Medicaid visits has been frozen for years, and Hunts Point soon will have to shift all Medicaid patients into managed care plans. In 1998, the center got $13.9 million in Medicaid reimbursement from the state. It got just $11.2 million last year. And the state, saying it overpaid, is seeking to recoup nearly $500,000 of that -- bad news for a center already facing a $300,000 deficit in its health-care operations.
Patient visits to Hunts Points' clinics are down a third from their peak, and Mr. Rosa recognizes that he has to improve the quality of care to change that. Hunts Point has been accused of inferior service, and some practices have raised red flags. In 1999, for example, the center was fined and placed on probation by the state because its pharmacy was misbranding and repackaging drugs.
Recognizing that health care today is about marketing as well as medicine, Mr. Rosa said he also planned aggressive advertising beyond the Puerto Rican community -- to Dominicans, Mexicans and others crowding into the Bronx. The Bronx's Puerto Rican population has declined 9 percent since 1990, according to census figures, the first drop after at least four decades of steady growth.
"We are very proud to have been identified as a Puerto Rican organization," Mr. Rosa, who is 46, said. "But as the world changes, we have to change."
George Rodriguez, a board member and long one of Mr. Velez's loyal allies, agreed. "We have to work on the new arrivals the way the Italians and the Jews did with us in the 1950's," he said.

Political Reorientation
The decline in the Puerto Rican population requires a political reorientation too. "We now have to call ourselves Hispanics, not Puerto Ricans," said Michael Nunez, a former Velez deputy who is president of the South Bronx Board of Trade, a separate organization.
Even without changing demographics, Mr. Velez -- who had briefly served on the City Council, but was better known for the campaigns he backed -- had been on the political defensive in recent years. His candidates had increasingly met defeat, most notably at the hands of his longtime rival, State Senator Pedro Espada Jr., who used a competing string of health clinics as a political base.
"The residuals of his political strength were people the community did not support," Senator Espada said.
As a result, Bronx politics today is more like a brawl than the well-organized boxing match, complete with predictable outcome, it once was. Mr. Velez has no heir. "That is the price of machine politics," Mr. Falcon said. "You develop a cult of followers, but you don't develop many leaders."
Mr. Velez's real heirs, his children, have landed on their feet. Ms. Velez is running the South Bronx School of Technology, another venture started by her father. It happens to rent space from Hunts Point Multi-Service, which is a little like parties in a divorce continuing to share a house. Mr. Velez Jr. returned to running a nonprofit housing group also started by his father, South Bronx Community Management, which has control of Don Pancho Development, Mr. Velez's for-profit company.
And the Velez tradition of appearing to feed off a mix of poverty programs and real estate deals is not entirely dead. Mr. Velez Jr. sold the building that used to rent space to Hunts Point's clinic to a group that included Mr. Frame, his father's former deputy, who then turned it into a homeless shelter. Mr. Frame left Hunts Point Multi-Service this year.
So while Ms. Velez, still bitter, complains that Hunts Point Multi-Service is "a completely different animal" than it was under her father, Mr. Rosa, the unlikely heir to that throne, believes things are not yet different enough.
"The past is past," he said. "You thank Mr. Velez for his efforts, and his family, you give them their just due, but if you're going to build on that vision, you have to do it on the realities of today."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ramon Velez in 1973, chatting with a job seeker in Hunts Point. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Ramon S. Velez missed the National Puerto Rican Day Parade on June 10, but not his float, which broadcast a recording of his voice. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); POLITICS (75%); TRENDS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUERTO RICANS; PUERTO RICAN DAY; PARADES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTS POINT MULTI-SERVICE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: VELEZ, RAMON S; WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



50 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: A Certain Age, Uncertain Income 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I felt as if I were reading my own biography in the June 26 front-page article about the need for older divorced women to remain at work. I've been working full time since age 31 (after having had four sons), and three decades later I feel I still have a decade to go before I can possibly retire. 
 Some of the companies I worked for did not provide any pensions, and certainly not portable pensions. Unlike the careers of many men in their 60's who have worked for one or two companies all their lives and who were guaranteed a pension, my career was such that job changes and advancements did occur, but not without what is now a long-term penalty. 
 Salaries were always defined (no stock options), and saving was not a word I could even think about until my youngest son graduated from college in the mid-1980's.
America's philosophy of economic independence certainly does not help some of us even consider the word "retirement."

DIANA DIAMOND
Palo Alto, Calif., June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%) LABOR; WOMEN; AGED; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

PERSON: DIAMOND, DIANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



51 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Mets Offense Still Asleep, but Appier Is the Great Equalizer Against Atlanta

BYLINE:  By TYLER KEPNER 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, July 1 

 BODY:
Kevin Appier is a perfectionist, which is a hard role to play in baseball. Too much failure, too many variables. But Appier strives for perfection, and as a Mets pitcher, he almost needs it to win.
 All year, Mets hitters have made life difficult for their pitchers. The Mets have scored the fewest runs in the National League, failing in the clutch consistently. In their four-game series at Turner Field, they were 2 for 40 with runners in scoring position. Their pitchers have had no room for error. 
 But Appier made no errors tonight, and he was rewarded with a victory. The right-handed Appier allowed three hits and no walks in eight shutout innings, and Armando Benitez survived a shaky ninth as the Mets edged the Atlanta Braves, 2-1.
"You shoot for perfection," Appier said. "Obviously, your chances are extremely minute. But you're always trying to keep them to no runs, regardless of what the score is."
The Braves got their only run in the ninth, when Benitez walked the leadoff hitter, Rafael Furcal, who advanced to second on a one-out wild pitch. Andruw Jones singled to left, scoring Furcal, and Chipper Jones walked. Brian Jordan lined out to right, and Andruw Jones advanced to third on a close play that nearly ended the game.
Benitez got ahead of B. J. Surhoff with a fastball off the outside corner. Surhoff argued, fouled off another pitch, then flared an easy fly to left to close it out. The save was Benitez's 16th in 16 chances, but not his cleanest.
"It was pretty ugly," he said.
The Mets (36-47) will take it; the victory gave them a split of the series. They were 0 for 5 with runners in scoring position tonight and their only hits with runners in scoring position in the series came from Todd Zeile on Friday, when Steve Trachsel won, 3-1.
The Mets have lost 10 of Appier's last 13 starts, but he has not been responsible for most of the losing. Appier (5-8) was blown out June 21, but in his other seven starts since May 24 he has a 1.84 earned run average.
He was magnificent tonight, economizing his pitches and keeping the ball down. After the first inning, Appier got 17 of his 21 outs on strikeouts or grounders. He never exceeded 17 pitches in an inning and allowed no runners past first base.
Appier did it despite working with the generally tight strike zone of the plate umpire, Mark Barron. Todd Pratt, the catcher, realized it was a hitter's zone when he watched Atlanta's John Burkett (6-6) labor in the top of the first. Pratt told Appier to stay with his game plan and let Pratt handle any arguments with Barron.
"He gets upset even if he throws a strike and it's not the pitch he wanted to throw," Pratt said of Appier. "Even if it's a strike, I can see him sometimes getting upset with that. Is it good? I don't know if you should get that upset. He's a little high-strung out there, and tonight I just tried to keep him in control."
Appier was in control of his emotions, as well as his sliders, fastballs and splitters. He sometimes curses at himself if he misses a pitch, but there were few outbursts tonight. Appier was almost flawless.
"You definitely feel better about it the better you throw -- definitely," he said. "But especially where we are as a team right now, the team win feels huge. Getting a personal win, that's a bonus."
In Burkett, the Mets beat a pitcher who entered the game with the National League's best earned run average. He averages just two walks per nine innings, but went to two-ball counts on 21 of the 26 hitters he faced, and threw a first-pitch strike only half the time.
Burkett throws softly, and the Mets swung and missed at just 9 of his 118 pitches. But while the Mets made contact, they got just six hits in Burkett's six innings, including three in the first, when they did not score.
The Mets got no hits in the second, but they took advantage of consecutive walks by Burkett to start the inning. With Desi Relaford at third and Pratt at second, Appier chopped a grounder over the head of third baseman Chipper Jones.
Relaford scored easily, giving Appier his first career run batted in. The Mets scored again in the sixth when Robin Ventura drove a sinker just over the wall in left-center for his 17th home run.

INSIDE PITCH
Second baseman EDGARDO ALFONZO will rejoin the Mets on Tuesday after completing a two-game rehabilitation assignment at Class AAA Norfolk on Sunday. Alfonzo, who has a strained lower back, went 0 for 8 for Norfolk. . . . Reliever DONNE WALL (strained right shoulder), who has thrown five scoreless innings in four minor league games, will return to New York on Tuesday and join the team if he is ready to pitch. JORGE VELANDIA and GRANT ROBERTS are the likely candidates to return to Norfolk. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mets' Kevin Appier shut out the Braves through eight innings, allowing three hits and striking out six. He also drove in a run. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (78%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (93%) NEW YORK METS; ATLANTA BRAVES 

PERSON: KEPNER, TYLER 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



52 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 United Airlines Abandons Merger With US Airways
United Airlines has decided to abandon its proposed $4.3 billion takeover of US Airways, an executive at the airline said. The move ends a bold move to create a giant that promised to transform the domestic airline industry but met widespread opposition.
In the end, a weakening economy and a long review by Justice Department antitrust officials, who showed no sign of approving the deal, compelled United to back out. Page A1.

Sale of Emap U.S. Magazines Is Seen
Primedia is expected to announce today that it has acquired the United States magazine business of Emap, the British publisher, for $515 million in cash and warrants. C7.

HBO's Focus Is Shifting to Ratings
While "Six Feet Under," the dark new HBO comedy about a family in the undertaking business, cannot yet claim to have stirred the same kind of press frenzy or wildly enthusiastic word-of-mouth of "The Sopranos," its ratings have been extremely strong. The series, created by Alan Ball, the Academy Award-winning writer of the film "American Beauty," did receive glowing notices. But ratings, not critical praise, are becoming the standard for judging success at HBO, which is dealing with sharply escalating program costs and pressure to increase profits. C8.

ESPNews Pulled for Some Homes
ESPNews, the 24-hour sports news channel, was removed from Charter Communications cable systems that serve about a quarter-million homes after ESPN would not agree to restrictions on the distribution of ESPNews programming on the Internet. C2.

Questions About CBS Sales Strategy
As the television networks finish selling commercials ahead of the fall prime-time season, a dispute has erupted over whether CBS stuck to a strategy to sell only at higher rates than last season or cut rates to make sales, as the other networks did. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.

Law Firms Cut Back on Partners
To increase per-partner profitability, many large law firms have quietly demoted partners, putting them on salaries again instead of giving them a share of net income. C6.

Group Says Fox News Leans to Right
Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, a liberal media watchdog group, has put out a study on the Fox News Channel that it says shows a conservative slant to the network's news coverage, not just its prime-time talk shows. The organization includes a tally of guests invited onto Fox News's nightly political news show, "Special Report With Brit Hume." It asserts that of the 56 guests affiliated with political parties who appeared with Mr. Hume from early January to early May, 50 were Republicans and 6 were Democrats. C8.

AT&T Considers Ending Venture
AT&T and British Telecom are exploring the possibility of ending their Concert joint venture, which focuses on providing corporations with telecommunications services. C10.

Survey Finds Improved Tech Outlook
A new survey of chief information officers suggests that the drastic recent cuts in corporate technology budgets may be starting to end. Still, the free-spending days of last year are not likely to return soon. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,502.40 down 102.19Nasdaq composite -- 2,160.54 up 125.7010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.40% up 0.28The euro -- $0.8493 down 0.0069The dollar -- 124.76 yen up 0.43 Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income from November-April. May figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph: "TODAY" shows construction spending from November- April. May figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (86%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); LAWYERS (76%); MEDIA BIAS (75%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (75%); WRITERS (75%); LIBERAL MEDIA (75%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); SALES PLAN (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); LIBERALISM (65%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); CONSERVATISM (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); ESPN INC (82%); EMAP PLC (57%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



53 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA GIANTS: SUBPLOT: THE STOCK; 
A Weak Summer, but a Faith, Based in Part on a Company Name

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company is not having the brightest of summers. First, its hoped-for blockbuster film "Pearl Harbor" got bombed by critics and faded fast at the box office. Then the public all but shrugged at the arrival of the Disney animation "Atlantis" -- even as rival DreamWorks' computer-animated "Shrek" was turning into a summer hit.
 Meantime, deterred by high gasoline prices and an uncertain economy, many people are avoiding Disney's theme parks. Attendance in the second quarter was off 7 percent at the Disney complex in Florida that includes DisneyWorld. And on the West Coast, the turnout has been disappointing so far at California Adventure, the new Disney park adjacent to Disneyland. 
 Weakness in the company's theme-park business can hurt in a big way, since the parks accounted for 26.8 percent of Disney's $25.4 billion in revenue for last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, 2000. 
So how to account for the fact that 13 of the 19 Disney analysts tracked by Thomson Financial/First Call are recommending the stock, which closed on Friday at $28.89? Their consensus calls for the company's income from operations to grow about 14 percent a year over the next five years. 
Driven by such optimism, Disney's stock is trading at a per-share price that represents 35.3 times 2001 income from continuing operations, said Charles L. Hill, Thomson's director of research. That compares favorably with the average stock in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which Mr. Hill said was trading at only 23.5 times income from continuing operations. 
But then, media companies typically trade at higher multiples than many other types of businesses, on the theory that they will grow faster. Disney, in fact, has a lower multiple than the media conglomerate AOL Time Warner, whose shares are trading at 43 times operating income. 
By other financial measures, the Disney picture is dimmer. 
Since 1997, when Disney bought Capital Cities/ABC, revenue has grown only 13.4 percent over all. Last year, for instance, revenue grew by only 4.1 percent, to $25.4 billion. And operating income, which was $3.9 billion in 1997, has actually declined -- to $2.74 billion last year. Profits, meanwhile, have fallen to $920 million last year from $1.97 billion in 1997.
According to a report issued by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Richard Bilotti, Disney stock is trading at 14 times this year's estimated cash flow of $5.1 billion. But some competitors' shares command far higher multiples -- an indication that analysts and investors expect the others to grow faster. AOL Time Warner's stock, for example, is trading at 25.4 times cash flow. 
So why all those upbeat analysts? Scott Davis, a media analyst at First Union who rates Disney a "strong buy," concedes that "people are assuming a certain growth rate going forward, and you can't assume that looking at the last couple of years." 
"Disney is firing on one cylinder," Mr. Davis said, "but maybe it will rev up to three or four. Is faith required? Absolutely." 
Mr. Davis said that his faith was based in part on the strength of the Disney name. "You could argue that Disney is one of the few traveling brands that has international recognition," he said, "and Disney has the marketing savvy to exploit it." 
He is looking forward to the release later this year of the movie "Monsters Inc." and the re-release of the animated classic "Snow White." And Disney's cable sports network, ESPN, has a contract with cable operators that allows for a 20 percent increase in subscription fees this year.
Whenever the economy picks up, if attendance at theme parks improves, the added revenue will fall directly to Disney's bottom line, Mr. Davis said. "The company does not have to invest more money to get those attendees," he said. "It is a fixed-cost business." 
But economic uncertainties affect more than ticket sales at Disneyland. Like any media company, Disney is feeling the effects of depressed advertising spending, which is impinging on the performance of its ABC broadcasting network as well as Disney's cable channels. 
And several analysts and investors say that some problems at Disney may point beyond the poor economy to weak management. Anxieties about Disney's feature film business were heightened when the film group's chairman, Peter Schneider, resigned two weeks ago, raising questions about who would replace him.
Meanwhile the ABC network is suffering from what some analysts see as weak stewardship. "Lightning struck with the success of 'Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,' and they weren't able to bottle it," said Tom Wolzien, a media analysts at Sanford Bernstein. This past season, ABC's ratings were down 13 percent in prime time, as viewership fell off for "Millionaire," without a comparable hit to help pick up the slack.
Some analysts predict that if Disney's chairman, Michael D. Eisner, does not put matters right, there will be pressure for change at the top of the company. Mr. Wolzien has even written that Disney might be more valuable broken up, if corporate performance does not improve.
But Thomas Staggs, Disney's chief financial officer, said such criticism was shortsighted. "After all," he said, "we are a very profitable company and our growth prospects are incredibly bright because of the demand for our programming. Our position is largely attributable to Michael and the management he put in place." 
Among the Disney analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call, the consensus forecast called for five-year annual earnings growth of about 14 percent. That places Disney toward the low end among media companies, according to Mr. Hill, who said analysts were predicting 26 percent earnings growth for AOL Time Warner and 13 percent for another Disney rival, the News Corporation. 
But Mr. Hill is not necessarily standing by any of those numbers. He notes, for example, that analysts are forecasting 13 percent average earnings growth for companies in the S.& P. 500. Given that the S.& P.'s historical growth rate is only 7 percent, Mr. Hill points out that analysts may be looking at the world through rose-colored glasses. 
Mark Greenberg, portfolio manager of the Invesco Leisure Fund, sees little possibility for Disney to grow nearly as fast as Wall Street expects. 
He pointed out that because Disney is already a big, successful company, it would be hard for it to acquire businesses that would have significant impact on its bottom line. "I don't think multibillion-dollar companies can grow at 14 or 15 percent on a consistent basis," he said. "It could grow 10 percent or 11 percent a year -- but not 15 percent."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Underachiever"Compared with other big media stocks, Disney has been a laggard.' AOL TimeWarner: +52.3% (this year)Friday's close: $53.00 News Corporation: +15.2Friday's close: 37.15 Viacom: +12.9Friday's close: 53.04 Walt Disney: -0.2Friday's close: 28.89 Sony: -5.3Friday's close: 65.80 Vivendi Universal: -11.2Friday's close: 58.00(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "The Financial Picture"Although many analysts are optimistic about Disney's future, the company has had only slow financial growth in recent years. Graph tracks Walt Disney stock price from June 2000-June 2001. Graph tracks revenue, ebitda, and net income earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization in Billions (fiscal years ended September) from 1999-2000.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets stock price ; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANIMATION (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%) MEDIA 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (97%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (82%); AOL INC (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); ABC INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (97%); AOL (NYSE) (65%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (97%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (97%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (97%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (97%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: D SCOTT DAVIS (50%) FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



54 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: United Is Said To Give Up Bid To Buy US Air 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Facing what it believes to be intractable opposition from federal antitrust regulators, United Airlines has decided to abandon its proposed $4.3 billion takeover of US Airways, an executive at the airline said yesterday. 
 The move ends a bold bid by United to create an airline giant that would have transformed the domestic industry. But the deal met widespread opposition from consumer advocates, some union leaders and many politicians. 
 Yet it was continued scrutiny by Justice Department antitrust officials, who showed no sign of approval after 14 months of talks and revised proposals, that led United to back out. 
"We don't believe we can get the deal through the antitrust review process," the executive said. 
The decision was made last week by the board of the UAL Corporation, United's parent, and US Airways was told Friday, the executive said.
When United announced its intention to buy US Airways in May of last year, United hoped to cement its position as the world's largest airline. United, based in Chicago, wanted to bolster its weak route network on the East Coast, where US Airways, based in Arlington, Va., with hubs in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Charlotte, is the dominant airline. 
Executives at both airlines promised that the combination would improve service for passengers by linking more destinations within a single, larger network. Opponents said the deal would ignite even greater concentration in the airline industry, leading to higher prices and deteriorating service. 
Kevin P. Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, a strong opponent of the merger, expressed relief yesterday. "Had this been approved, it would have transformed the competitive landscape of the airline industry here and abroad with negative implications for consumers for years to come," he said.
He said few new airline combinations were likely to be proposed for some time. "This puts the brakes on," he said.
Executives at rival airlines had said that if the deal was approved, they would have to join with one or more of their competitors to match the size of the combination of United and US Airways.
A person who talked to top executives at US Airways said that the airline would have to accept any decision United made, but that ending the agreement would be disappointing because it was still in the best interests of shareholders, employees and the communities US Airways serves. 
With the collapse of the deal, United finds itself the No. 2 airline, behind its archrival, American Airlines, which surpassed it in size this year when it bought the ailing Trans World Airlines. American's purchase of T.W.A. was designed in part to defend against United's proposed takeover of US Airways. 
American, United and Delta Air Lines now each carry about 18 percent of domestic passengers.
US Airways, which has suffered widening losses in recent months, far beyond those felt at other airlines because of the economic slowdown, now has to devise a new strategy to prosper as an independent airline serving millions of passengers in critical cities like Washington, New York and Boston.
In April, Rakesh Gangwal, its chief executive, said the airline had no "Plan B" if the takeover by United was not approved. Mr. Gangwal and Stephen M. Wolf, its chairman, have tried to persuade opponents of the merger that US Airways could not survive on its own.
But many industry analysts and executives at rival carriers dispute that. "They need to begin acting responsibly and focus on fixing that airline," Richard Anderson, the chief executive of Northwest Airlines, said during an interview on Friday. "US Airways is not a failing carrier." 
US Airways could seek a new buyer, but that could prove difficult, at least in the near term, in light of regulators' opposition to United's purchase.
United's withdrawal also ends a series of other arrangements, meant to help meet antitrust objections, that would have realigned much of the airline business in the Northeast. These included plans to create a new airline called DC Air that would have taken over most of US Airway's operations at Washington's Ronald Reagan National Airport. DC Air was to be owned by Robert L. Johnson, the founder and chairman of Black Entertainment Television and a member of the US Airways board. 
Mr. Wolf of US Airways and James E. Goodwin, the chairman of UAL, hoped the creation of a new competitor in Washington would help persuade regulators to approve United's purchase. In January, after the Justice Department raised objections to the original deal, United agreed to sell about 20 percent of US Airways, including valuable gates and landing and take-off slots in Boston, New York and Washington, to American for $1.5 billion. 
American, in turn, agreed to buy 49 percent of DC Air from Mr. Johnson for $82.4 million. American surprised United by announcing its own intention to buy T.W.A., which simultaneously declared bankruptcy for the third time in about a decade. 
Antitrust officials quickly approved the T.W.A. deal in March because they thought T.W.A. otherwise would have gone out of business, costing tens of thousands of jobs. 
Their objections to the United-US Airways deal were more complex. Justice Department officials will not speak publicly about the case other than to acknowledge they are reviewing it. But several people close to their deliberations said that they were concerned about the independence of DC Air, whether there would be enough competition with the merged airline at several airports, and a plan by American and United to jointly operate the lucrative Washington-New York-Boston shuttle now owned by US Airways. 
The election of President George W. Bush did not alter the review much because Charles James, the new head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, and several other officials were compelled to remove themselves from the case because of conflicts of interest. As a result, the case has been left in the hands of division staff members 
"You have the same group of people who have been looking at this consistently from the beginning," the United executive said. "We have worked really intensively and creatively with the Department of Justice. But we still have not been able to satisfy their concerns." 
United has requested that US Airways permit it to withdraw before Aug. 1. After that, United would not need US Air's permission to walk away while paying it a $50 million breakup fee. Yesterday, it was not clear whether US Airways would grant that request. Spokesmen at both airlines declined to comment. 
United ultimately may find that the Justice Department did it a favor. Since it brought American into the deal in January, the health of the airline industry has declined sharply. Airline revenues in May fell nearly 12 percent compared with the previous year, the worst decline in two decades. Analysts said the industry's weakness provided another reason for dropping the deal, but executives at United said this was not a factor. 
Earlier this month, United warned that it expected to see a double-digit decline in revenues over the entire second quarter. Many industry analysts thought UAL had offered far too much when it agreed to buy US Airways for $60 a share last year. 
For all these reasons, UAL's stock price has declined 41 percent since the deal was announced. Labor unrest by its pilots last summer caused the airline to have one of the worst on-time records in the industry. Many analysts and consumer advocates think United should focus on running a better airline rather than trying to merge with another one.
The United executive said that United management would concentrate on improving reliability and restoring profitability. "Another deal is unlikely unless the regulatory outlook changes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); AIRLINES (92%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MERGERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; CONSUMER PROTECTION; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



55 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: In Churches, Candidates Call For Black Voters to Respond 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
On his first foray to a predominantly black church in New York City, Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire businessman and novice political candidate, learned at least one lesson yesterday: "It is very different than temple," Mr. Bloomberg joked as he left the service at Memorial Baptist Church in Harlem.
 Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, was one of three mayoral candidates yesterday to take part in the venerable New York political tradition of seeking support among black congregations. The public advocate, Mark Green, and City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, both Democrats, spent most of their Sunday visiting black churches in Brooklyn. 
 The separate tours clearly showed the daunting task facing Mr. Bloomberg, a Democrat-turned-Republican, as he tries to create a political identity for himself in the equivalent of a New York minute.
"Who is that man?" one worshiper asked as Mr. Bloomberg arrived in the Memorial Baptist lobby on 115th Street. And after Mr. Bloomberg left holding a "Harlem" T-shirt and baseball cap he had been given to welcome him on his third public visit to the neighborhood, several members said they remained unsure what to make of him.
"I have an impression, he did leave me with an impression," said Robert Livingston, a drummer from Harlem who plays with the church choir. "But it is still vague."
Mr. Vallone and Mr. Green, in contrast, have been making these Sunday rounds for years, including visits to some of the same churches they stopped by yesterday.
At Memorial Baptist, Mr. Bloomberg focused his remarks on what he described as the common history between blacks and Jews as targets of discrimination. He told the crowd of about 400 people -- nearly half of whom were tourists from Germany, Japan and other countries -- that when he was a child in Medford, Mass., his father had to buy the family house through a lawyer because the builder did not want to sell it directly to a Jewish family.
"This world is not perfect," said Mr. Bloomberg, who as an adult has not been observant, but is active in Jewish causes. "But it has the potential to make the same kind of advances in the future that we have made in the past."
Mr. Bloomberg did not mention his fellow Republican, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, nor did he offer much detail on what he would do if he were elected. Most of his comments about city government focused on his belief that residents should not rely too heavily on it. "We can try to change it, we can ask politicians to do things," Mr. Bloomberg said of the city's school system. "But in the end, those of you who are parents are the ones who are going to make the difference."
Mr. Bloomberg made no effort to try to appear at home during the spirited service. He did not clap his hands, sing or sway to the sounds of the rousing 25-person choir.
Afterward, though, he said he planned similar visits to other black churches through the summer and into the fall. And members of the congregation said they generally had a positive impression of him.
"He is trying to be the second coming of Giuliani, without the baggage," said Edward Washington, a member of the congregation. "But you don't know what he is going to do until he defines himself."
Mr. Vallone and Mr. Green seemed more at ease yesterday during their church visits. Mr. Green made his third visit with the Christian Life Center congregation in Brooklyn, which has become a must on the mayoral stump. Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, have also stopped by.
With more than 3,000 people attending the 11 a.m. service, Mr. Green swayed and clapped his hands to the gospel singers performing Christian gospel hymns. He likened himself to former Mayor David N. Dinkins and former Senator Robert F. Kennedy, particularly because of Mr. Kennedy's economic development efforts in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in the late 1960's. He also talked of how before the string of high-profile cases in which city police officers shot and killed unarmed black men, he had sued the Police Department to obtain the employment records of police officers who had gone unpunished in suspected brutality cases.
"I like his character," said Harriet Rollins, a school nurse who lives in Crown Heights. "He seems pretty real. I think he's one of the more likable ones."
But some congregants said Mr. Green appeared to be out of touch with his audience, tailoring his remarks to low-income blacks, when many of the people there were middle- and upper-class African-Americans.
"We're not living in the 60's anymore," said Cathy Middleton, a lawyer who practices in Queens and lives in Westbury, on Long Island. "I think his heart's in the right place. But I think he's a half-step behind the times. He's a little flower child." Nevertheless, she said, she signed up to work for Mr. Green's campaign.
Mr. Vallone attended four services yesterday, in Fort Greene, East New York, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick. He also invoked the name of former Mayor Dinkins and discussed the Police Department's treatment of black men, saying that "police officers should be ambassadors of good will."
At his last stop, Open Door Church of Christ, a modest store-front church in Bedford-Stuyvesant where Mr. Vallone had spoken before, he took part in the black church convention of call and response, starting off one sentence with "One nation under . . ." and waiting for the congregation to respond with the word "God."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three mayoral candidates sought support yesterday among black congregations, a venerable political tradition in the city. Michael R. Bloomberg, above, a Republican, visited a Harlem church, his first foray to a mostly black city church. Two Democrats, Mark Green, below left, and Peter F. Vallone, below right, went to churches in Brooklyn. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) LIPTON, ERIC; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



56 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: Schroder, Like Germany, Looks Harder at the Past 

BYLINE:  By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 1 

 BODY:
It is a scene of modern Germany: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder in his new office opposite the Reichstag gazing in wonder at a photograph of the father he never knew, Cpl. Fritz Schroder with a Nazi swastika on his helmet.
 "I only recently was given this photograph," Mr. Schroder said in an exclusive interview. "Before that, I never had a mental picture of my father, and only a very limited relationship to him. For me, in a sense, he never existed. So only now, for the first time, am I beginning to deal with him." 
 The turbulence of modern Germany as it passed through two world wars, Nazism, Communism and division has been such that almost no family has escaped some form of personal anguish. And Mr. Schroder, like his country, is treading his personal way out of the labyrinth of the past. 
Now approaching his fourth year in office, he has been obliged by the move of the capital back to Berlin to confront this past in a way more direct than his predecessors. Perhaps his most conspicuous achievement has been to allow the airing of German trauma in a new atmosphere of openness.
So here the chancellor sits with the newly discovered image of his own trauma: a handsome, clear-eyed young Wehrmacht soldier, seen in half-profile, some years before his death on the eastern front in Romania in October 1944. Mr. Schroder had been born six months earlier, yet another German child of war who would be fatherless.
What intrigues Mr. Schroder is not so much his father's role; "everybody did that," he said. "He was a lowly soldier, no sort of leader, and was sent to the slaughter like everyone else." It is more the uncanny physical similarity that inevitably prompts reflections on how fate determines the dilemmas of each generation. 
"There's a picture of me when I was about the same age -- you have to see it," Mr. Schroder, 57, said. "It's exactly the same, without the steel helmet and uniform, naturally, as if it were a twin brother. That makes you think. That is very interesting."
Certainly the very existence of this intimate conversation is interesting. Germany is opening up. 
It is partly the passage of time: ever fewer former Nazis are still alive. It is partly unification and the resolution, at last, of Germany's borders: a state no longer at risk is inevitably freer in spirit. It is partly the arrival in power of Mr. Schroder's postwar generation: these people tend to be more moved by Tuscany than by Bismarck. 
The family circumstances that led to the discovery this year of the photograph have also presented the chancellor with cause for ethical reflection. Research by the newspaper Bild led to three first cousins of Mr. Schroder in the former East Germany with whom he had lost contact.
All the cousins were the daughters of Kurt Schroder, the brother of Fritz. One of them had the picture of his father that the chancellor now keeps in his office and showed during the interview, although he has not yet allowed it to be published.
"I knew nothing about these relatives in the east and always said I had none," Mr. Schroder said. "So now the fall of the Iron Curtain has become personal as well as political. I have to find a relationship to people I had not believed existed."
He is not alone. The quest for a satisfactory relationship between west and east continues to haunt Germany more than a decade after unification. The perception of Mr. Schroder in a still disillusioned east will play an important role in his quest to be re-elected next year.
After meeting the chancellor recently, one of the Schroder cousins, Renate Gritzke, said: "We always hear that now we are one in Germany. In that case, east Germany should not be lagging so far behind."
Unemployment figures tell part of the story. The jobless rate in the east is 17 percent, compared with 7.1 percent in the west, even after the huge transfer eastward of public money. 
Beyond those differences, a psychological gulf remains rooted in resentment among former East Germans of what they see as the wholesale dismissal and takeover of a society, where, as they like to say, "we also lived."
Ms. Gritzke lived in a particular way. She worked for the East German intelligence service, or Stasi, in a unit that bugged embassies. Fluent in English, she played a leading role in spying on American and British diplomats.
"I have no regrets about what I did," she told The Times of London recently. "We joined that organization because we wanted to work for our country."
Mr. Schroder said he saw his cousin's attitude -- and that of easterners in general -- as more rooted in "a form of protest" than any ideology. "Protest," he added, "against certain forms of political dominance from the western part of the country."
Only in this way, he suggested, was it possible to understand that the Party of Democratic Socialism -- the successor party to the East German Communists -- commanded the support of 40 percent of East Berliners.
The chancellor said the Party of Democratic Socialism, which is a strong candidate to join the government of the city of Berlin after elections in the fall, should no longer be viewed as dangerous. During the cold war, he suggested, the loyalty of such parties was ultimately to "Big Brother in the Soviet Union."
"But that is no longer the case," he added.
Conservative parties have voiced fierce opposition to the idea of a former Communist party's joining the government of the city that was the symbol of the cold war. But Mr. Schroder -- in this as in almost everything -- is a zealous pragmatist. 
Of his former Stasi cousin, Mr. Schroder said: "What should I say to the woman? I told her, listen, that does not affect my relationship to you, how could it?" The chancellor's view seems to be that one should be wary of judging the acts of people in situations one had not oneself experienced.
A further meeting with the three cousins together -- including Ms. Gritzke, whom he previously saw apart from the others -- is now planned. Mr. Schroder is uncovering his past.
As to the future, the chancellor is the strong favorite to be re-elected next year, partly because the Christian Democratic Party remains in considerable disarray. He expressed optimism about trans-Atlantic relations in the coming years and was very conciliatory toward President Bush, with whom there have been a number of differences.
"Look, when Mr. Bush tells President Putin in Ljubljana that Russia is a potential partner and no enemy, that is precisely what Europe wants," Mr. Schroder said, referring to the recent summit meeting in Slovenia between the American and Russian leaders. 
He expressed confidence that differences over the environment and national missile defense would be approached in a similar spirit, adding that the evolving American foreign policy showed the fruits of dialogue.
But does a united Germany -- more relaxed and determined to deal with its own problems -- still need more than 70,000 American troops on its soil? "The American presence is an expression of trans-Atlantic togetherness," the chancellor said, "and America's role as a superpower, as the only remaining superpower, can and should remain clear in Germany." He added, "I'm no friend of those who say, 'Thanks, now go home.' "
The European Union is engaged in a project to develop its own rapid reaction force that would work in conjunction with NATO but separable from it. Mr. Schroder said of that project, "We are not there yet," adding that American leadership, especially in logistics, would be needed "for the time being, at least my time being."
Of the planned expansion of the European Union, Mr. Schroder said it posed the possibility that Europe could become ungovernable. "In the end," he said, "it comes down to the question of whether we think of Europe in intergovernmental terms or in terms of integration."
He made clear that his own preference was for integration, with -- in the next 10 to 20 years -- "a strong central European government," controlled by a reformed European parliament with real powers.
"One also needs an ordering of the nation-states that will continue to function," he continued. He said he envisaged a possible "Chamber of Nation-States" and saw the need for a charter laying out a "division of competence." That would define what is Europe's business and what remains the business of the nation-states.
Such federalist views cause grave misgivings in several of Germany's European partners, which see them as a veiled way for Europe's most populous and powerful country to control the fate of the continent.
"There are such fears, but they are unfounded," Mr. Schroder said. "Germany has demonstrated that it is the country most eager to integrate, and most prepared to put pure national interests second to European interests."
Gazing out at the new Berlin taking shape before the new chancellery on the River Spree, Mr. Schroder added: "I believe we have reached a level of civil society that has discredited the yearning for dominant personalities, and it is good that this is a country that has developed a real democratic quality. That is why I live here happily."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder was recently given a photo of the father he never knew, a Wehrmacht soldier who was killed in Romania in 1944. (Kai Bornhoft)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (69%); ETHICS (61%); TRENDS (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (94%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); COHEN, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (70%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (70%) GERMANY (96%); ROMANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (70%) GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



57 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: A CHANGING WORLD IS FORCING CHANGES ON MANAGED CARE 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
The backlash against managed health care that pushed a patients' bill of rights to the top of the political agenda in Washington has already forced important changes in medical care for millions of Americans.
 Whatever the fate of the patients' measure passed by the Senate late Friday -- and it still faces passage by the House and a possible veto by President Bush -- managed care is evolving under pressure from doctors, patients, consumer advocates and employers. 
 Two-thirds of health maintenance organizations, for example, no longer require approval from a health-plan nurse before a patient can be admitted to a hospital or see a specialist, industry research shows. Members of many plans can appeal denials of care to independent outside reviewers, a legal requirement in 41 states.
But the changes have come at a price. Health care costs, kept in check during the late 1990's at least in part by managed care's strictures, are again spiraling, economists and industry executives say, rising in double digits this year and last. Through mergers and growing public demand for greater choice, hospitals and medical groups have gained bargaining clout with health insurers; meanwhile, drug companies' advertising has unleashed consumer demand for costly medications. 
As the economy slows and business profits weaken, more of these costs are shifted to consumers. The affluent are paying for their freedom of choice, analysts say, while the less affluent are offered only restrictive health plans or cannot afford the rising premiums and co-payments that come with greater freedom.
"If you want to go to the expensive place in town, you pay more," said Margaret O'Kane, president of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, a nonprofit accrediting group for health plans.
In the meantime, managed care companies -- their stocks and profits pummeled and their reputations pilloried -- are striving to give themselves a new face and name. "Nobody particularly likes the term 'managed care,' " said Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, an industry group.
These days, United Healthcare, one of the biggest for-profit insurers, prefers to call its services "coordinated care." And after years when there was more talk than action about preventive medicine, more health plans are sponsoring elaborate programs to help manage the health of the 1 in 20 people with chronic illnesses like diabetes.
Many employers are insisting that health plans provide these disease management programs, noted George Metzger, vice president for human resources and benefits at Textron, a manufacturer with 30,000 employees in the United States, most insured by some form of managed care. Other companies taking this approach include General Motors, Coca-Cola and Georgia Power.
Industry analysts say at least one million patients are now monitored by health insurers, usually by telephone calls from nurses. Employers hope that these programs will save money in the long run by keeping patients relatively healthy and reducing hospital admissions.
"Sixty percent of my costs over the next decade will be basically in a dozen to 18 chronic diseases," said Allen Feezor, head of health benefits for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, with 1.2 million insured people.
In Whittier, Calif., William Wilkinson, 73, said that since he retired as a telephone plant manager eight years ago, he has had "two heart attacks, a stroke that affected my eyesight and I ended up with diabetes." 
Every morning, he takes off his pajamas and gets on a scale that transmits his weight to a monitoring station in Las Vegas. An electronic voice reminds him of his goals and asks questions that he answers by pressing yes and no buttons.
"If my weight goes up or I say I am coughing more than normal," he said, a nurse named JoAnne "will call me." The monitoring, paid for by his H.M.O., Pacificare Health Systems, has prompted Mr. Wilkinson to lose 22 pounds.
"That automated voice comes on and I know that JoAnne is going to call me," he explained. "I don't like to disappoint myself, and I don't like to disappoint JoAnne."
Still, conventional managed care techniques -- including the hurdles to obtaining treatment that spawned the patients' rights campaign -- remain far more common than disease management programs.
Most of the 80 million Americans in H.M.O.'s still need approval from their primary physicians before they can see a specialist, even if that choice is less likely to be second-guessed by a health-plan nurse. And at least half of those primary doctors get a fixed, monthly fee for each H.M.O. member -- the so-called capitation that critics say gives doctors a financial incentive to rush patients through visits.
At least 100 million Americans are covered by less-restrictive preferred provider organizations, or P.P.O.'s, according to Interstudy, an industry research firm.
Members of these plans are encouraged to pick doctors who have agreed to reduce their fees. But in many cities, these networks now include nearly every doctor. For instance, participants in the P.P.O. network plan offered by HealthPartners in Minneapolis can choose among 10,000 of the area's 11,000 doctors.
But changes in the health care marketplace have diminished the insurers' clout and their ability to contain costs. Hospitals have merged in many cities and wield a stronger hand in payment negotiations with insurers. In Cleveland, for example, the Cleveland Clinic and the University Hospitals, with their affiliates, control more than 80 percent of the market. Hospitals in Cleveland are now winning rate increases as high as 15 percent for some services, a health plan official said.
"Health plans can no longer bully and threaten the providers of care," said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University.
Increasingly, costs are being passed along to consumers, in the form of higher insurance premiums and co-payments.
In California, for example, Calpers raised out-of-pocket costs for a doctor visit to $10 for H.M.O. members. Prescriptions can cost as much as $30, instead of the old $5 co-payment.
On average, employers are absorbing three-quarters of the increases in health costs this year; even so, workers are paying 7 percent more this year than last, according to Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm.
Industry experts say the slowing economy may already be driving more employers and workers toward more restrictive managed care. 
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a major New York area insurer, was promoting looser, more costly plans. But Dr. Michael Stocker, the chief executive, said employees of small and midsized concerns have recently been joining H.M.O.'s at twice the rate of a year ago.
"It seems to be related to the economy," he said.
Other insurance executives said they had not seen a similar shift. But Dr. John Rowe, chief executive of Aetna Inc., the largest managed care company, predicted that companies in industries hit hard by the economic slowdown will move to benefit plans giving employees a fixed amount to pay for health care. Some lower-paid workers will probably use the money to join a low-cost traditional H.M.O., he said. 
Kaiser Permanente, the biggest nonprofit health maintenance company, has never liked the managed care label, preferring to be known as an "integrated financing and delivery system." Dr. David Lawrence, chief executive of the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and Hospitals, said managed care has now demonstrated the limits of its effectiveness.
"The managed care movement of the last decade was really a financing system that was attempting to influence the way a group of fragmented, unintegrated physicians and hospitals practiced medicine," he said. "What was discovered was that when one uses financial tools to try to change the delivery of care, A, they are not very powerful and, B, they make people mad." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); VETO (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); DIABETES (73%); MERGERS (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); ACCREDITATION (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HOSPITALS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HOSPITALS; VETOES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOCTORS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE (66%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) FREUDENHEIM, MILT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



58 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Burden Seems to Be on Japan to Salvage the Fast-Eroding Climate Treaty 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Japan is in the driver's seat to determine whether a global climate treaty will ever take effect. And supporters of the treaty said yesterday that they were discouraged by the remarks made on Saturday by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi when he met with President Bush, a fervent opponent of the treaty.
 At Camp David, Mr. Koizumi said that Japan was willing to work until the last minute to rally support for the treaty, but that in the end it would not proceed without the United States. 
 And responding to a reporter's question, Mr. Koizumi refused to express any disappointment in Mr. Bush. To the contrary, he said, "The president is enthusiastic about environmental issues and there is still time to discuss this issue." 
These and other lukewarm expressions of support suggested that the treaty cannot be enacted without fundamental revisions. The treaty, negotiated in Kyoto, Japan, nearly four years ago, would be the first requiring industrial countries to cut emissions of gases linked to global warming. 
Still, Mr. Koizumi's statements were nuanced and they may be clarified in talks today with Prime Minister Tony Blair in London, and later in the week with President Jacques Chirac of France. Japan has had a strong allegiance to the proposal in part because it was negotiated in Kyoto, but in bargaining over treaty, Japan has tended to side with the United States against European demands for deep cuts in domestic emissions. 
At informal talks in The Hague last week, the European Union held to its position that it would pursue ratification and enactment even without the United States, whose opposition President Bush announced in March. But to reach a threshold for the treaty to take effect, Europe would need Japan's support, and officials gave no indication which way the country would go. 
That appeared to change on Saturday when Mr. Koizumi said during a brief session with reporters, "Presently, I do not have the intention of proceeding without the cooperation of the United States." 
And during a news conference on Saturday night, he spoke mainly of "the spirit of the protocol" instead of the document itself, and discussed plans by Washington and Tokyo to pursue talks on other options. The leaders said their countries would pursue talks exploring ways to use technology to combat climate change. That is a favorite theme of the Bush administration, which opposes binding limits on emissions.
All of this implies that a fresh start is needed. 
Yesterday, Bush administration officials embraced Mr. Koizumi's comments as an endorsement of their rejection of the treaty.
"The president's approach of pursuing these issues now on a research and technology basis, instead of the completely unfair approach that Kyoto would have forced the United States to follow, is the sensible way," Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said yesterday. 
And, perceiving a change in Japanese policies, he said, "I'm glad to see Japan joining us in taking that position." He spoke on the television program "Fox News Sunday."
But Japanese officials worked to dismiss any sense that Japan had settled on a clear change in its posture. "We are not intending to derail the international negotiations," said a Japanese environmental official. He added that Japan still felt it was possible to persuade the United States "to keep alive the spirit of the Kyoto Protocol."
The official said his government was divided over how to proceed. "There are still many arguments from within the ruling party that we should ratify even without the United States," he said.
He and other Japanese officials said they continued to hope that if the treaty's timetable and targets for emissions reductions were adjusted, the United States might consider rejoining the process. 
Mr. Bush has emphatically said he opposes the treaty because the required reductions could harm the economy and because developing nations are excused from similar requirements. 
Japanese officials said yesterday that senior Japanese and American diplomats would meet before the next round of formal talks on the treaty, which is scheduled in Bonn in mid-July. 
In recent weeks, Japan has been playing its cards carefully, and has gained concessions from the Europe Union. And Japan has also concentrated on its domestic economic ills, which were the primary focus of Mr. Koizumi's talks with Mr. Bush.
Many other international agreements have entered into force without ratification by the United States, including the Law of the Sea. But barring a sharp turnabout by Japan, a climate treaty with binding emissions reductions is unlikely to be one of them. 
The Kyoto treaty, negotiated by the Clinton administration, is an outgrowth of a convention signed by the first President Bush and unanimously supported by the Senate in 1992. That document called for industrial countries to rein in emissions voluntarily by 2000 to levels measured in 1990. 
The binding cuts required by the Kyoto agreement were negotiated starting in 1995 after the world's governments concluded that the voluntary measures were not working. It would require 38 industrial countries to reduce their combined emissions 5 percent below the 1990 levels. 
But the Kyoto pact has always been extremely fragile. Developing countries only signed on condition that the industrial countries agreed to take the first steps, and the United States all along demanded some form of "meaningful participation" by fast-growing countries like China and India. That difference remains unresolved.
The European Union, the strongest force seeking ratification, has insisted that industrial countries cut greenhouse gases mainly by reducing emissions from smokestacks and tailpipes. That clashed with the position of the Clinton administration, which sought to gain credit toward its targets by growing more forests, which absorb carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas. 
Once Mr. Bush rejected the treaty, the path toward enactment grew far more difficult. The treaty can only go into force if 55 countries ratify it, including a group responsible for at least 55 percent of 1990 emissions from industrial countries. 
David G. Victor, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, calculates that without Japan, the European Union could reach that goal only with a disparate group of partners, an alliance that would get it to just 55.07 percent of the 1990 emissions. That course is highly implausible, Mr. Victor said. "If Slovakia sneezes, the whole thing falls apart," he said. "They need Japan."
Timothy E. Wirth, president of the United Nations Foundation, former Democratic senator from Colorado who directed climate negotiations for the Clinton administration from 1993 to 1997, said the nuances of the Japanese statements camouflaged what he described as serious damage and delay by the Bush administration impeding efforts to forge a climate agreement. 
"Now it's up to him," Mr. Wirth said, referring to Mr. Bush. "You can't just move in and kick away the whole structure without offering something in response."
But critics of the Kyoto treaty said Mr. Koizumi's statements had done the world a favor by emphasizing the need to explore the mechanisms of the treaty anew. 
"We've been saying for a long time that the treaty was headed down a dead-end street," said Frank Maisano, a spokesman for the Global Climate Coalition, a private group financed by industries opposed to binding cuts in greenhouse gases. "The Canadians were whispering this. The Australians were whispering this. For the Japanese to say it pretty much says we need to look at a new approach."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi leaving Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland yesterday after environmental talks with President Bush. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%) WEATHER; KYOTO PROTOCOL; TREATIES; GLOBAL WARMING 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TONY BLAIR (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); REVKIN, ANDREW C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (54%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



59 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA GIANTS: OVERVIEW: THE CORPORATE STRATEGY; 
Where the Message Is the Medium

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL 

DATELINE: BURBANK, Calif. 

 BODY:
Under the headquarters roof held up by the Seven Dwarfs, Michael D. Eisner is nervous.
 Mr. Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company, is nervous not because "Pearl Harbor" has fallen short of expectations. He is nervous not because ABC is still working off its "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" hangover. He is nervous not because the new Disney's California Adventure theme park seems half-empty. 
 After all, at a company built on films, television programs and vacation attractions, such routine disappointments come with the job. Rather, Mr. Eisner is anxious because he is feeling pressure to change Disney's architecture. While Sneezy, Sleepy, Dopey & Company are the company's literal and figurative pillars, Mr. Eiser feels pressure to add cables, antennas and satellites. 
"I'm a little nervous," he said in an interview here. "I am nervous of the monumental pressure of The L.A. Times and The New York Times and Variety and all that stuff. 'How come Disney is not buying Telemundo?' 'How come Disney is not buying NBC?' 'How come Disney isn't fighting Rupert to get DirecTV?' 'How come Disney doesn't own 12 million cable homes?' 'Why doesn't Disney buy AT&T Broadband and get in the pipe business?' 
"I'm nervous that we'll all -- including me -- lose sight," he says. "I have to tie myself to the vision and I have to say to myself, 'What is Disney?' "
Mr. Eisner clings to the vision because it is getting a bit lonely in his corner of the media world. And he knows it. For years, media moguls and gadflies alike have argued about whether greater power accrues to the owners of content (like films and television programs) or distribution (like cable and satellite systems). Now, many big media companies are concluding that it is more powerful to own both. AOL Time Warner is largely the result of America Online's desire for Time Warner's cable systems. The News Corporation is vying for the DirecTV satellite system. Even Viacom, where Sumner M. Redstone enjoys proclaiming that "content is king," has built a new television network, UPN, to complement its acquisition of CBS.
And then there is Disney, the company that the producer and animator Walt Disney founded in 1923 and that first offered stock to the public in 1940. Such is its tradition that Mr. Eisner, chairman since 1984, paints even the acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC six years ago as an investment in content rather than distribution. Where others saw a television network, Mr. Eiser saw ESPN's sports properties and ABC's television library. If the other conglomerates are about the media, Mr. Eisner wants Disney to be about the messages.
"What makes the company different is that everybody right now, the other big companies, are run by very gifted businessmen who are out vociferously championing the control of the conduit to the public in one way or another," Mr. Eisner said. "But for us, the main product is intellectual product, or content. And all those words are so antiseptic that it's hard to talk about it and much harder to write about it. But if you sit in a theater and you see 'Dinosaur' or 'Atlantis' or a Garry Marshall movie or you watch a television show in a group or you go to a theme park and you see people react, then you start to understand content. And it is our single driver."
That may be so, but it appears that a fair number of Disney executives who are not named Michael D. Eisner are spending a lot of time thinking about how to bypass, co-opt or otherwise handle the distribution channels (particularly cable television operators) that Disney relies upon to deliver content to consumers. And those executives are coming up with some innovative and provocative plans, like using the broadcast television airwaves to deliver movies for video-on-demand services.
The outside pressure that Mr. Eisner feels is mounting at this particular moment for a reason. Because reporters and Wall Street analysts are fickle and shortsighted sorts, it is unlikely that Mr. Eisner would be feeling heat to diversify were Disney's core content units enjoying a run of incredible success. But they aren't.
At first glance, there seems to be no single overarching reason why most of the company's content businesses are falling short of blockbuster success just now.
For the company's media networks operation, the biggest problem may simply be living up to its own record. During the company's fiscal year that ended last September, the networks posted stellar results for essentially two reasons: a sizzling advertising market and the ABC hit show "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire." Now, the advertising market has fallen off the stove and "Millionaire," while still among the top-rated prime-time programs, is no longer the phenomenon it was. ABC also failed to generate a strong lineup of new hits last fall -- although ESPN became even stronger, largely because of its expanded National Football League schedule. 
After networks, Disney's biggest unit is its theme parks and resorts operation. As the company has added new parks and cruise ships, revenue at the unit has grown steadily.
But attendance has fallen off this year at the company's United States parks, perhaps because of the overall slowing of the economy and the rise in gasoline prices. Moreover, the company's new park in Anaheim, Disney's California Adventure, has not yet hit its stride. During a recent visit, the park's signature roller coaster was closed, construction was underway outside a key attraction and, most important, the crowds were less than overwhelming. There are strengths, including a popular attraction based on "A Bug's Life."
Meanwhile, there have been disappointing results from the company's studio operation, which is dominated by the movie business. Revenue and operating income at the unit have fallen each of the last three fiscal years. Part of the decline is a result of the company's scaling back of its home-video release schedule. Another part, however, is a result of box-office turkeys; Mr. Eisner cites "The Insider" and "Kundun" among the duds. And while this summer's much-hyped "Pearl Harbor" will be profitable, it will not be a world-beater of "Titanic" scale. 
Two weeks ago, Disney announced that the studio's chairman, Peter Schneider, was stepping down. Mr. Schneider's mere departure was more than enough material for the Hollywood gossip factory. But the most interesting aspect of the move is the fact that the company has no intention of replacing him. Instead, three key executives who reported to Mr. Schneider will now report directly to Mr. Eisner.
And there, perhaps, is the overarching issue in the company's performance. Mr. Eisner may be trying to mend what he sees as the common, fraying thread at Disney: his own lack of day-to-day involvement in the content operations. (Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former Disney executive who left in a dispute with Mr. Eisner in 1994, might have a different opinion.)
Mr. Eisner is hardly known as the supreme delegator; the word "micromanager" has even been thrown his way. But that may be because he genuinely sees himself as an entertainment producer who happens to be running a big company, rather than as an executive whose company happens to be in the media business.
And now, Mr. Eisner is ready to get back in the game again, after spending a few years on what he considers the sidelines.
"I'm going to be increasingly involved in the studio," he said the day before Mr. Schneider's departure was announced. "I'm going to increasingly try to get myself back into the main creative thrust of the company, where I was."
For his freedom to do that, Mr. Eisner thanks Robert A. Iger, the former ABC executive who is now Disney's president. Mr. Eisner is counting on Mr. Iger to make the trains run on time while Mr. Eisner himself concentrates on the movies, shows and theme parks that are still his passion.
"It's much easier now for me because I have Bob Iger -- because I don't have to do everything," Mr. Eisner said. Talking about Mr. Iger brings to his mind Frank Wells, Mr. Eisner's longtime deputy, who was killed in a helicopter crash in 1994.
"When Frank Wells was here, I was 90 percent in creative and 10 percent in making big decisions and Frank was the opposite," Mr. Eisner says, almost wistfully. "And when Frank died I ran it by myself for a while, which was fine. Then I made a mistake and that really put me back. And then I ran it for a little while longer alone and then Bob came in."
The mistake Mr. Eisner refers to is his hiring in 1995 of Michael S. Ovitz, the former talent agent, as his No. 2. That arrangement deteriorated over the course of 16 months before Mr. Ovitz resigned. 
Perhaps as rancorous was the fight a year ago between Disney and Time Warner Cable. As the companies wrangled over how much Time Warner would pay to carry Disney's cable channels, Time Warner cut off ABC for some 3.5 million of its cable subscribers for 39 hours.
It turned out to be a colossal public relations blunder by Time Warner. "I almost became religious," Mr. Eisner recalls. "It was like a gift."
At one level, the episode confirmed for Disney the value of its content. As Mr. Iger recalls: "What was learned was that a cable operator or a pipe owner could not stand in the way of consumers' getting the programming or the content that they demanded. A middleman cannot, forever, block access to that content, and we're confident of that."
But as confident as Disney may be, the Time Warner fracas may have also highlighted a fundamental vulnerability: In the end, other companies control the manner in which much of Disney's content is actually delivered. Without much distribution, Disney would have to get smarter.
Enter Peter E. Murphy.
As Disney's chief strategy officer, Mr. Murphy is trying to figure out how Disney can extract more money from its content and also build stronger, more direct relationships with customers. Standing in his way are gatekeepers like cable systems and video rental shops.
For instance, Mr. Murphy estimates that Americans spend about $2 billion a year renting Disney home videos. Disney gets only 30 to 35 percent of that, he says, and he wants more.
So Mr. Murphy is working on a plan to use television broadcast spectrum to transmit movies overnight to hard-drive devices, much like Tivo recorders, that sit atop televisions. The boxes might store 100 movies at a time, from Disney and other studios.
With such a service, which Mr. Murphy calls datacasting and wants to start next year, the video-rental gatekeeper would be cut out of the business model. More important, so would the local cable system.
Mr. Murphy is quick to say that cable companies will continue to be important for distributing traditional channels like ESPN and the Disney Channel, but he says: "We see movies as the Trojan horse. Once you have a relationship with the customer and you have a big hard drive in their house, there's all sorts of different data you can put on there. It can be music, it can be TV, it can be text."
Lots of obstacles stand in the way of such a plan, not least the myriad technical difficulties. And consumers may balk at bringing yet another gadget into their homes.
All of a sudden, though, it looks like there actually are some people at Disney who are thinking hard about distribution issues.
Mr. Eisner -- knowing his strengths, perhaps -- chooses not to be one of them.
Asked about the datacasting initiative, he says: "Peter Murphy spends a good deal of time on that. I spend not any time on that. I would rather spend my time making sure that if you get that working we have stuff that goes over those pipes.
"I say, 'Hey guys, let's go put on a show,' " he said. "I mean, that's what's fun: Hey, let's go do 'Beauty and the Beast' for Broadway. But we're running a day-to-day business with 100,000-plus employees and that's a big responsibility in itself.
"You ask what is the soul of the company and what is our direction? I'm trying to be the bridge from what Walt Disney made and created," he added, "to whoever will be the next person after me that maintains that same philosophy of 'Let's put on a show.' Let's be silly. We're a silly company. Let's never not be a silly company."

The Media Giants
This article is the second of a series to be published on Mondays in Business Day over the coming months, examining the business strategies of the major media conglomerates, including AOL Time Warner, Bertelsmann, Disney, News Corporation, Sony, Viacom and Vivendi. Articles in the series, which began with an article about AOL Time Warner on June 11, will remain available at The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/mediagiants

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael D. Eisner, left, Disney's chairman, says he leaves most day-to-day management to its president, Robert A. Iger. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times) Chart: "Reaching for the Sky"The Walt Disney Company is the second-largest media conglomerate in the world. Graph tracks 2000 TOTAL REVENUE for the following companies, Except Bertelsmann* AOL TIME WARNER: $36.2 billionDisney: $25.8VIACOM: $20.0VIVENDI UNIVERSAL+: $17.7BERTELSMANN: $15.7*NEWS CORP.: $14.2SONY$S: $10.0 *Bertelsmann figure is for fiscal year ended June 30, 2000; the company, privately held, reports financial data only once a year.+Only the media portions of the company; total was $48.8 billion.$SOnly the media portions of the company; total was $64.5 billion.(Sources: company reports)(pg. C1) Chart: "Sizing Up an Industry and Disney's Place in It"BROADCAST TVABC has not found a new hit since Who Wants to be a Millionaire. U.S. PRIME TIME AVG. VIEWERS OCT. 2, '00 - MAY 23, '01 SEASON 1.CBS: 12.5 millionSHARE: 12% 2.ABC: 12.5SHARE: 12 3.NBC: 11.6SHARE: 12 4.FOX: 9.6SHARE: 9 5.WB: 3.8SHARE: 4 6.UPN: 3.7SHARE: 4 7.PAX: 1.4SHARE: 1 CABLE TV PROGRAMMINGDisney owns 50 percent of Lifetime and a stake in A&E and others. It also owns80 percent of ESPN. U.S. WEEKEND CABLE AVG. VIEWERS JAN. 1 - JUNE 24, '01 1.Nickelodeon: 2.3 million2.Lifetime: 1.93.Turner Broadcasting: 1.64.Cartoon Network: 1.55.TNT: 1.46.Disney Channel: 1.27.USA Network: 1.18.HBO: 1.19.MTV: 0.810.ESPN: 0.7 AMUSEMENT PARKS WORLDWIDE VISITORSESTIMATED VISITORS IN 2000 (in millions) 1.Walt Disney : 89.3 (MILLION)2.Six Flags: 48.83.Universal Studios: 23.84.Anheuser-Busch Parks: 20.25.Cedar Fair: 14.06.Paramount Parks: 12.07.Grupo Magico Internacional: 8.38.Blackpool Pleasure Beach: 7.89.The Tussauds Group: 7.710.Alfa Smartparks: 6.2 MOVIESINDUSTRY TOTAL Jan. 2 - June 3, 2001U.S. and Canada box office revenue: $3.0 billion BOX OFFICE REVENUE, MILLIONS 1.Paramount: $373.9SHARE: 12.5% 2.Sony/Columbia: 332.9SHARE: 1.1 3.Warner Brothers: 304.8SHARE: 10.2 4.Buena Vista: 285.8SHARE: 9.5 5.Miramax: 273.5SHARE: 9.1 6.Universal: 256.1SHARE: 8.5 7.MGM/UA: 230.1SHARE: 7.7 8.DreamWorks: 217.0SHARE: 7.2 9.Fox: 203.1SHARE: 6.8 10.New Line Cinema: 142.0SHARE: 4.7 CONSUMER PRODUCTSINDUSTRY TOTAL 2000 worldwide retail entertainment licensingrevenue, estimated: $69 billion RANKED BY LICENSING REVENUE INDIVIDUAL AMOUNTS NOT AVAILABLE 1.Disney2.AOL Time Warner3.Viacom4.Vivendi Universal5.Sesame Workshop6.Lucas Film Entertainment7.HIT Entertainment (Lyric Studios)8.News Corporation (Fox)9.Seban Entertainment10.Sony INTERNETOn the strength of its ESPN, ABC and NFL.com sites, Disney ranks among the Webleaders. U.S. VISITORS, MAY 2001 in (millions) 1.AOL Time Warner sites: 70.72.Microsoft sites: 61.43.Yahoo: 57.64.Lycos: 32.95.X10.COM: 28.66.Excite Network: 28.27.About: 25.78.Infospace: 20.29.Amazon: 20.010.Disney Internet Group: 19.9 (Sources: Nielsen Media Research; Amusement Business; ACNielsen EDI; The Licensing Letter; Jupiter Media Metrix)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); FILM (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); ANIMATION (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); BROADBAND (65%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%) MEDIA; SURVEYS AND SERIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); NEWS CORP (82%); AOL INC (81%); ABC INC (73%); AT&T BROADBAND LLC (54%); VIACOM INC (52%); ESPN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%) DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); AOL (NYSE) (81%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (73%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (73%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (58%); ROBERT A IGER (58%) SCHIESEL, SETH; EISNER, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



60 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: A Grand Plan Meets Skepticism in Mexico's South 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Mexico, June 28 

 BODY:
Miguel Lopez, a peasant farmer, stood on an empty railroad track, glancing up from his muddy boots. He looked a tad skeptical about President Vicente Fox's vision of factories sprouting from this rich farmland, filling freight trains roaring down this rickety line.
 "We don't have electricity or drinking water," said Mr. Lopez, who makes $2 a day working the fields of eastern Oaxaca. "If the president can't give us that -- and no president has -- what's the point?" 
 A century ago, the dictator Porfiro Diaz dreamed that a great railroad would run through here, carrying majestic cargo ships from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific, turning the south of Mexico into a world trade route and making the nation an economic powerhouse. But it took a generation to lay this narrow, now disused track. By that time the United States was building the Panama Canal. 
Not since Diaz's dream has a leader had a vision like President Fox's plan to develop southern Mexico, then and now the poorest and most politically isolated part of the country. And no other project so typifies Mr. Fox and his ambitions in the year since he was elected last July 2, uprooting the old regime that had ruled Mexico since 1929.
Its aims are enormous, its details undone and its future uncertain, like much of what Mr. Fox has promised in the seven months since taking office.
Mr. Fox wants to spend billions on development -- and rebuild this lonely railroad line into a humming cross-continental cargo route -- to lift up southern Mexico and link it to Central America and the United States in a giant 21st-century free-trade network.
"We want to begin by constructing great corridors of highways and rail lines, of gas pipes and electrical grids, ports and airports," Mr. Fox said this month. Dams will generate power, tourism projects will draw visitors, goods will flow from the south, and money will flow in, he says.
Making Diaz's dream railroad a reality, his plan states, will turn the south "into a trade route to Europe for businesses located on the Pacific Coast and to the East for businesses located on the Gulf of Mexico" -- exactly what Mexico envisioned back in the 1880's but never accomplished.
"It is a grand vision -- and a good one," said David B. Atkinson, the Interamerican Development Bank's representative in Mexico. "The next step is to translate it into action."
Like President Lyndon B. Johnson's "war on poverty" in the 1960's, Mr. Fox's plan seeks to end what he calls "the disgracefully unacceptable situations of poverty and isolation" in Mexico's poorest states, and to close the development gap between Mexico's north and south."
Mexico's south, similar to the American south in the century after the Civil War, remains worse off than the rest of the nation by any economic and social measure. It has one-quarter of Mexico's land, but only one-seventh of its wealth and three-quarters of its Indians, who live concentrated in little villages, lacking jobs, roads, schools, water, electricity and political power.
And while his vision is grand, Mr. Fox's mandate is thin. He won office with 43 percent of the vote, presides over a fragile political coalition and a slowing economy and lacks consent in Congress.
His plan, so far, is primarily about business -- energy, transport, and factories to assemble consumer goods. Its budget contains millions, not the necessary billions. And so far only one part directly addresses people like Mr. Lopez, the millions of subsistence farmers in the south. It proposes to "make rural farms into profitable business," though exactly how is not spelled out.
The plan provokes deep skepticism from those who claim to speak for the poor, in particular the popular spokesmen for Mexico's Indians, the man who calls himself Subcommander Marcos, whose Zapatista rebel movement rose from the dirt-poor hills of the southern state of Chiapas.
"Instead of using riches to support poor peasants and small business owners," he said, "Fox has a plan to use the money to support those who want to fill the land with gas stations, malls and plastic playlands," turning Indian villages into "amusement parks where the peasants and the indigenous would be clowns," entertaining tourists for a handful of pesos.
Officials of the Interamerican Development Bank, which has provisionally pledged $2 billion for the plan, say that grand development projects cannot work unless the people they are meant to help are closely consulted from the start.
So the money will not flow soon. First there must be many talks in many towns with peasants and local politicians, a process that the plan's coordinator, Florencio Salazar, called "difficult but indispensable."
Representatives from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the United Nations Development Program, the United States Agency for International Development and other institutions met to discuss the plan for the first time this week at the Interamerican Development Bank's headquarters in Washington. Mr. Fox has asked the development bank to write the plan as well as finance it.
Mr. Atkinson, the bank's representative in Mexico, says the plan must first give an "effective voice" to "those most in need -- the poor, the indigenous communities," letting them help choose the ways in which the money is spent.
Exactly so, said Pablo Salazar, the governor of Chiapas, the first ever from outside the old ruling party. "This is a rich state with poor people, the poorest in the nation," he said. "And we are fighting, demanding that the government reduce this abyss."
The plan, he said, is not "the state's salvation, nor the demon by which transnational businesses will come to plunder our wealth." But it will not work, he said, unless the government "takes the proposals to the communities."
Today four-fifths of the 12,500 miles of road in Chiapas are unpaved. And Governor Salazar wants, literally and figuratively, "a dignified path that connects Chiapas with the country's capital."
Easier said than done. The last serious capital investment in southern Mexico came near the end of the 19th century, in the days of the dictator Diaz. Back then, under a banana-republic system approaching slavery, Indian peasants hauled precious woods, coffee, fruit, sugar cane, tobacco and chicle out of the land.
The 21st-century plan would have the peasants making consumer goods in assembly factories, as they do in Mexico's north, or harvesting food and wood in biotech plantations, for perhaps $10 a day.
In theory, "they would be integrated into the mainstream of the economy," said Luis Rubio, a prominent political scientist in Mexico City, and that "would make them like average Mexicans striving to earn a living."
But Armando Bartra, the director of the Instituto Maya, which studies rural and agricultural issues, said the plan to date represented a new version of the old colonial ways.
"The south needs large public works" to create jobs, he said. "But there is no sign that the plan will improve the lives of those living in indigenous communities," he said, or that Mr. Fox and his aides "have talked to people living in those communities."
During a tour of three southern states, down the Isthmus of Tehuantepec railroad line in Veracruz and Oaxaca, then east to Chiapas, it seemed that people's support for the program depended on their wealth.
People in business liked the plan enormously. "A brilliant idea," said Victor Manuel Cancino, a coffee exporter in Chiapas -- especially if it includes loans or credits for enterprises like his.
People with a little money thought it was nice, if perhaps a bit dreamy. Antonio Dominguez, 44, riding the rails on horseback, hauling his homemade cheese to market near the Oaxaca-Veracruz border, put it plainly. "God knows, people need work and money," he said. His partner, Pedro Contreras, 50, said, "We work like dogs to make 80 pesos a day," about $9, "and that's what you need just to survive." 
People with next to nothing, like Mr. Lopez, the peasant farmer, were dubious at best. "We are poor people, we have always been poor, and I think we always will be, no matter what the president promises," he said, trudging across the tracks to the fields near Santa Ana, in eastern Oaxaca.
Down the line, in Lagunas, stood a version of Mr. Fox's dream made concrete -- actually, made by concrete. Lagunas is a company town of 4,000 people living next to the great gray cement factory run by Cruz Azul, a Mexican firm that has been here for 80 years.
The neat little houses have lawns. The landscaped park has benches. Street lights line extremely well-paved roads. Lagunas looks a little more like southern California than southern Mexico.
On a railroad siding, Felix Guttierez, 45, was inspecting the freight cars that haul the cement down the hills. "This is a good idea the president has," he said. "But we need deeds, not words."
Mexico has gold in its hills and oil under its seas, he said, but millions of people are looking for work.
"The land is rich," he said, "but the people are poor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosario Garcia Hernandez, who like many of her neighbors has no running water in her house in Ixtapa, in Chiapas, fills buckets.; "God knows, people need work and money," said Antonio Dominguez, left, with Alfred Contrera Vivero. They make cheese and take it by horseback along the rail tracks to market near the Oaxaca-Veracruz border. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Santa Ana: Santa Ana is on a railroad at the center of a new development plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); AIR FREIGHT (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RAILROADS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (61%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (61%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%) FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES); WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%) MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001 



61 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Product to Protect Women From H.I.V. Is Elusive 

BYLINE:  By SHARON LERNER 

 BODY:
Twelve years ago, when Salimata Niang first began talking about the risk of AIDS in her native Senegal, women asked her for something she did not have: a product they could use without their husbands' knowledge to protect themselves from infection with the AIDS virus.
 Last week, at the United Nations conference on the disease, Ms. Niang, a program officer at the Society for Women and AIDS in Africa, said she still had nothing to offer. There is no such thing as a vaginal microbicide -- no cream, gel, foam or sponge that can protect against AIDS or other sexually transmitted diseases. 
 At the United Nations meeting, Dr. Peter Piot, executive director of the organization's AIDS program, which coordinates the international response to the epidemic, said that he had first recommended microbicide development more than 10 years ago and that the main challenge had always been attracting the pharmaceutical industry. Companies have not been eager to develop microbicides, because they are unlikely to be big moneymakers.
To be useful in the poor countries where new AIDS infections are concentrated, a microbicide would have to be inexpensive. Even in the United States, a recent survey by the Alan Guttmacher Institute showed that women's interest in a microbicide would decline as its price increased.
Scientific questions have also plagued the microbicide development. In the last decade, researchers have puzzled over which host cell a compound should target to interrupt H.I.V. transmission and how cells of the genital tract respond to the virus differently from other cells. Hopes for the most promising microbicide candidate were dashed last year when a spermicide, Nonoxynol-9, appeared to increase H.I.V. transmission in human trials rather than reducing it.
Some experts have expressed reservations about microbicides. While some envision them as an important alternative for women who would not use condoms, others fear that they might cut down on condom use.
Despite setbacks, scientists and people concerned about women's health issues are more optimistic than ever about prospects for a microbicide. Sixty potential products are now in development, including a gel called the invisible condom, another gel that interrupts the replication of viruses and a chemical derived from plants that have been genetically engineered to produce human antibodies active against sexually transmitted infections.
Four of these chemical candidates are heading toward the last phase of human trials in the next two years. Pro-2000, a gel made by Interneuron, a company based in Massachusetts, disrupts both H.I.V. and herpes infection by binding with the viruses. Pro-2000, which also shows promise as a contraceptive, is scheduled to begin its last round of trials in January. Another compound, Buffer Gel, kills pathogens by changing the acidity in the vagina. And Ushercell, a big sugar molecule being promoted by a nonprofit organization called Conrad, is thought to work against H.I.V. and the bacteria that cause chlamydia and gonorrhea by blocking their entry into cells. Carraguard, which contains a seaweed-derived compound used to thicken ice cream, seems to prevent viral infection by coating the vaginal walls. Carraguard is being developed by the Population Council in New York and is expected to allow conception while fighting H.I.V.
The need for microbicides is rooted in the doubly difficult position in which women find themselves: not only are they more susceptible to sexually transmitted diseases than men, but they are less able to insist that their partners use condoms.
"If men don't want to use them, they don't get used," said Dr. Julie Pulerwitz, a scientist at the Program for Appropriate Technology in Health, an international nonprofit group that studies contraception and AIDS prevention. Dr. Pulerwitz, who is studying condom use in Bolivia, Vietnam and South Africa, said that men often disregarded their partners' requests to wear condoms or reacted violently. 
The female condom has made little headway. Women cannot use it without a partner's knowing, and both men and women complain that it is awkward and noisy. 
A successful microbicide would cost an estimated $50 million to develop, according to the Alliance for Microbicide Development, a group representing scientists and biotechnology companies. Pharmaceutical companies can expect a return of about 5 percent on a drug sold in a developing country, as opposed to an 18 to 20 percent return from drugs sold in developed countries, according to Dr. Stephen Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota. 
Without the backing of big companies, efforts to nudge microbicides toward the marketplace have fallen to government researchers and women's health advocates. The Global Campaign for Microbicides recently began a search for donors that it is calling "Looking for Mrs. McCormick," a reference to Frances McCormick, who personally financed research on the birth control pill in the 1940's, when it was controversial. The Rockefeller Foundation has a microbicide initiative, and the Gates Foundation recently set aside $25 million to help bring the right compound to market.
Some of that money has gone to small biotech firms like Biosys, a Philadelphia company that is developing a cream called Savvy. The cream has shown potential as both a contraceptive and a barrier to H.I.V., syphilis, chlamydia and gonorrhea and is undergoing safety trials. The company's president, Anne-Marie Corner, said she was cautiously optimistic; if all goes well, Savvy could begin its final phase of clinical testing next summer and appear on drugstore shelves as soon as three years from now. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on July 3 about using microbicides to protect women against sexually transmitted diseases misidentified the company that is testing a gel called Savvy. It is Biosyn, not Biosys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); WOMEN (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); BACTERIA (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); VIRUSES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HERPES INFECTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: LERNER, SHARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) SENEGAL (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



62 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: Venerable Institution In a Season Of Turmoil 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE 

 BODY:
In November 1988, Andrei Sakharov, the Russian physicist, political dissident and Nobel Peace Prize winner, came to the United States after he was released from years of house arrest. One of his first stops was an Italianate building on East 63rd Street that is home to the New York Academy of Sciences. There, at an emotional reception in the academy's travertine marble halls, Sakharov thanked the academy for leading the fight for his freedom. It was a proud moment in the history of the academy, which, since its founding in 1817, has claimed Thomas Jefferson, Charles Darwin and Albert Einstein as members.
 Today many people are wondering about the future of the academy, an association of scientists, engineers and doctors that has 28,000 members worldwide and is known for its scholarly publications and ground-breaking conferences on subjects like AIDS and women in science, as well as for human rights campaigns for foreign scientists. 
 The academy, New York's oldest scientific institution, has lost almost a third of its members in the last seven years. In April, it announced that it was putting its headquarters on the market for $30 million. And on May 31, provoking a chorus of protest from scientists and journalists, the academy's board voted to stop publishing The Sciences, an elegant magazine that has won seven National Magazine Awards for its combination of literary science writing and fine art. 
Some see these events as the visible manifestation of a worrisome trend toward centralization and the pursuit of the corporate dollar in an institution that has traditionally operated more like a federation of little scientific societies. To the academy's president, Dr. Rodney W. Nichols, they are growing pains. 
The academy is changing, he says, and not everybody is happy about it. Partly, it is a debate about who will control the agenda of the academy -- the volunteer members who run the academic sections into which it is divided or the staff and board of governors -- and whether the university or the corporation is the right model for a 21st-century nonprofit scientific academy.
"This is a 19th-century organization, and it's organized in a 19th-century way," Dr. Nichols said in an interview. Two years ago he led the way in getting the academy to approve a new mission statement -- something he says it never had before -- that emphasizes the use and understanding of science and technology for the betterment of society.
He intends to replace the academy's sections, which are centered on traditional disciplines like chemistry and mathematics, with interdisciplinary forums, and to establish centers for science education, studies of technology and society, and the promotion of human rights.
To finance all that activity, he said, he has begun to raise money for an endowment, something he said his predecessors had neglected to do. 
In some quarters, however, these moves seem ominous.
"Nicholas is going the way of corporate America invading the public and private institutions of learning," said Dr. Constance Sutton, a professor at New York University and chairwoman of the academy's anthropology section.
Dr. Nichols's critics say closing the magazine was a mistake. They cite surveys showing that The Sciences has consistently been rated as one of the prime benefits of academy membership.
"This is not the way to reverse a membership decline," said Dr. Charles Ramond, a psychologist and advertising expert who is a former member of the academy's board and was chairman of its committee on The Sciences. 
But everyone agrees that change is needed. 
The academy was founded as the Lyceum for Natural History; its members were instrumental in founding the American Museum of Natural History in 1868 and N.Y.U. The academy found its niche not in research but in disseminating findings through meetings and publications. The Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, which first appeared in 1823, ranks among the top 2 percent of publications according to the frequency with which it is cited by other scientific papers.
The academy got into the human rights business in 1978, running seminars in Moscow apartments for "refuseniks," Jewish Soviet scientists who had been fired for wanting to emigrate to Israel, and publishing the proceedings in the Annals.
"That was where we made our mark in human rights," said the academy's human rights director, Svetlana Stone. The academy's efforts have spread to China, Iran, Indonesia, Cuba, Egypt and Myanmar, among other countries.
In New York City the academy has been a "very important kind of centripetal force for the city's intellectuals in keeping in touch, networking, keeping up with what's happening," Dr. Sutton said. Anyone who pays the dues -- $95 for Americans and $115 for others -- can join, said Katherine Goldring, director of marketing and membership. Only about 18 percent of members live in the New York metropolitan area; 45 percent live abroad.
Dr. Nichols, a physicist who was formerly a vice president of Rockefeller University, became executive director of the academy in 1995. He changed his official title soon thereafter to president and chief executive, a move that has symbolic importance to the academically oriented old guard. And he expanded the board of governors by adding leaders from business and government and two former presidential science advisers, Dr. D. Allan Bromley and Dr. John Gibbons. Dr. Nichols has embarked on a series of initiatives into the areas of science and society, often in conjunction with outside institutions. In 1995 he talked the Federal Reserve Bank of New York into co-sponsoring a conference on technology and the economy of the tristate area. In recent years the academy has also undertaken, among other efforts, major projects to improve science teaching in the schools and, at the request of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, to study pollution in New York Harbor.
These expanding interests have put a crimp on the academy both physically and fiscally. The academy's headquarters is impressive but too small; up to 70 people at a time are crammed into 32 rooms, and it lacks an auditorium large enough to hold more than 100 people, causing the academy to hold its larger meetings at other institutions. 
The plan is essentially to give it up for a larger but less expensive space in Manhattan that could be outfitted with modern offices and an auditorium. But the new building must have "gravitas," Dr. Nichols said. "We're not going to move into one floor of the World Trade Center," he said.
Dr. Nichols described two properties, including a former three-story warehouse that was already wired for high-speed Internet access, that he had his eye on and that could be bought and renovated for about $15 million.
That would leave $5 million or $10 million to serve as the seed for an endowment.
The academy operates on a tight budget of about $10 million a year, he said, mostly financed by members' dues. That was augmented last year by about $2.5 million in restricted and unrestricted grants and donations. But to be secure, he said, each of the new projected centers, as well as the offices on human rights and women in science, need their own endowments of a few million dollars -- like the named chairs in a university department.
"We don't have any of that," Dr. Nichols said. "It's all on our own bootstraps." He said he would probably announce a capital campaign in the next year.
Dr. Nichols's critics worry that he would rather run a research organization than one oriented toward membership, but he denies it.
"I'm not a Beltway bandit," he proclaimed, adding that he was determined to participate in projects with government and industry when they fit with the academy's mission and to rely more and more on the academy's senior staff members in figuring out how best to fulfill that mission.
The sudden closing of The Sciences has brought the debate over the academy's future into sharp focus. By all accounts, the magazine, which goes to all members as well as to a few thousand outside subscribers, has always been highly praised and short of cash. Richard Liebman-Smith, who edited the magazine in the early 1980's, said: "There has always been a feeling that it was an expensive thing to do. The history of trying to get rid of The Sciences doesn't begin with Rodney Nichols."
He said one of the magazine's signature features, the use of fine art instead of scientific diagrams for illustrations, was originally conceived as an economy measure because the publication could not afford graphics. Another economy move was the use of young writers, many of whom went on to better-known publications like The New York Times.
"It wanted to be almost literary," recalled Paul LiBassi, who edited The Sciences from 1982 to 1989. Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard paleontologist and best-selling author, called The Sciences "the best integration of art and science that we have."
Mr. LiBassi and Mr. Liebman-Smith said they had hoped to excite their readers about ideas and the benefits of research, rather than simply covering academy activities. As a result, the magazine kept the academy at arm's length -- a fact that led to growing irritation between Dr. Nichols and Peter Brown, the most recent editor, according to a former staff member at the magazine. Mr. Brown declined to speak publicly about the situation.
The board, Dr. Nichols said, had considered closing The Sciences before, considering it outside the main mission of the academy. It had tried to license it to an outside publisher in the late 1980's but failed to attract a respectable offer. Subsequent attempts to lift the magazine out of its financial hole -- estimated by Dr. Nichols at $700,000 to $900,000 a year -- by selling advertising also failed.
"By the late 90's, what also became clear was that the magazine was not really the voice of the academy," Dr. Nichols said. "You could read the magazine for years and never know that we have programs in the city schools, not know that we have an active human rights committee, not know that we held meetings."
Dr. Nichols submitted his conclusion to the board on May 31 in the form of a budget that had no provision for the magazine. He said The Sciences would be replaced by a newsletter and an expanded Web site.
"This is not Harvard -- we don't have an endowment," said Jacqueline Leo, an executive at Meredith Publishing, who is chairwoman of the academy's committee on The Sciences. "But if this is the reason people come to the academy. . . ." 
In the days after the announcement, many academy members expressed shock. "Of all the things you do, why give up the most visible, most reputable thing you do?" asked Barry Kreiswirth, a microbiologist at N.Y.U.'s Public Health Research Institute.
The curator of the academy's art gallery, Lynn Gamwell, resigned. "The magazine's mission was integral to the gallery," she wrote in an e-mail message to Dr. Nichols, "and by shutting down The Sciences you created a void at the core of the gallery."
"Some people think I'm an assassin," Dr. Nichols acknowledged. "I don't feel good about the whole situation. I feel good about the decision. I don't feel good in human terms." 
Dr. Nancy Toomey, chairwoman of the women in science section of the academy and associate dean of engineering and applied sciences at Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, said she was not completely comfortable with the changes under way. "Should the academy decide to do away with the old sections' structure," she wrote in an e-mail message to The New York Times, "I hope it finds a way to continue to support face-to-face meeting of members that do so much to foster networking and mentoring, in addition to the exchange of information."
But she added, "As someone once said, the only thing more frightening than change is not changing."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about changes at the New York Academy of Sciences misstated the background of its president and chief executive, Rodney W. Nichols; he does not have a doctorate and he became the group's leader in 1992, not 1995. The article also misidentified the organization that asked the academy to study pollution in New York Harbor; it was a regional office of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, not the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (which is helping to finance the work). The article also misstated the source of the academy's income; it gets most of its income from a combination of members' dues and sales of publications, not from dues alone.
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about changes at the New York Academy of Sciences misspelled the surname of the chairwoman of the academy's section on women in science. She is Dr. Nancy Tooney, not Toomey.

An article in Science Times last Tuesday about changes at the New York Academy of Sciences misidentified Dr. Constance Sutton. She is a former chairwoman of the academy's anthropology section, not the current chairwoman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After being allowed to leave the Soviet Union in 1988, Andrei Sakharov thanked New York Academy of Sciences members for their support. (Jane Hoffer); The New York Academy of Sciences announced in April that it would sell its building at 2 East 63rd Street. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. F2); Rodney W. Nichols in the courtyard of the New York Academy of Sciences. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (72%); WRITERS (71%); ENDOWMENTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); TRENDS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (62%) FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (94%) NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS; NICHOLS, RODNEY W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



63 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO SLIPS. The euro fell as manufacturing in the 12-nation currency zone declined in June to its lowest level in more than two years. In New York, the euro fell to 84.65 cents from 84.93 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



64 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Critic of China Flees to U.S., Fearing Arrest In Crackdown 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 2 

 BODY:
A maverick Chinese economist who is an outspoken critic of China's endemic corruption has fled to the United States, fearing that she was about to be arrested in a crackdown on dissidents and scholars with ties to the West.
 The economist, He Qinglian, 44, was already planning on leaving China on June 26 for a year's sabbatical at the University of Chicago. 
 But, speaking by telephone today from a conference at American University in Washington, she said she left China instead on June 14, after security agents broke into her apartment in Shenzhen and seized documents, including invitations to academic conferences in the United States, Japan, Taiwan and Sweden.
Just two months earlier, she added, security agents had seized her cell phone and other personal effects. And for the last year, ever since she was dismissed as a writer for The Shenzhen Legal Daily, she said, the police had regularly shadowed her, and her telephone had been tapped. 
Fearful of being arrested, Ms. He left her apartment on June 14 without any luggage, and adhered to her usual routine -- except that instead of going to work, she went to the bank, then to Baiyun Airport in Guangzhou for a flight to Beijing. She then flew to Singapore, and landed in the United States on June 16.
"I was very worried that I would not be able to safely leave the country because they knew that I was going to the United States in two weeks," Ms. He said. "I have decided to leave China for now."
In recent months China has arrested scores of dissidents, closed newspapers and fired outspoken editors in an accelerating effort to tighten control on public discourse. And it has charged several visiting scholars with spying, including a naturalized American who had been teaching in Hong Kong and a United States resident who had been working at American University in Washington.
No one knows why, though theories abound. 
Recently issued regulations allow the government to close publications that mention a broad range of subjects, including speculation on China's coming leadership transition. 
Jiang Zemin, who is president, general secretary of the Communist Party and chairman of the Central Military Commission, is expected to step down as leader of the party next year and to retire from the presidency in 2003. Li Peng, the chairman of the National People's Congress, and Prime Minister Zhu Rongji are also expected to step down in 2003. Who fills those posts will be decided next year, at the party's 16th Congress. 
The crackdown may also be motivated by a growing fear of espionage by disaffected Chinese nationals for the United States or Taiwan.
Ms. He, educated as an economist in Shanghai, made her name in 1998 with "China's Pitfalls," a pessimistic evaluation of the economic and political system as irretrievably corrupt. Nine companies refused to publish the book until after it had been published in Hong Kong and had won the praise of Liu Ji, an academic who is a close adviser to Mr. Jiang. 
Its subsequent mainland edition sold a 170,000 copies, and an estimated one million more were sold in pirated editions. 
Her attacks have been unrelenting, eroding the government's patience.
In March 2000, she published a long analysis of the growing inequalities in Chinese society in Reading Room, a magazine based in Changsha. The essay formed the core of another book, "We Are All Still Gazing at the Stars." 
The book included criticism of Mr. Jiang's three priorities for the party, the cornerstone of what he hopes will be his intellectual legacy. He says the party should represent "the advanced forces of production, advanced culture and the interests of the grass roots." But Ms. He's book said that theory was really just an attempt to consolidate the power of the ruling elite.
The book was banned, and Reading Room's editor in chief and several other senior editors were removed from their jobs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: He Qinglian, an economist, says Chinese society is deeply corrupt. (Associated Press, 1998) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); CORRUPTION (89%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); POLITICS (65%); ESPIONAGE (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

PERSON: HE QINGLIAN; SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) CHINA; SHENZHEN (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



65 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing and Consumer Data Signal a Recovery 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2 

 BODY:
An index of manufacturing rose to a seven-month high in June, and consumer spending increased more than expected in May, industry and government reports showed today. The data were seen as a sign that the economy could be starting to recover.
 The National Association of Purchasing Management's index increased to 44.7 last month from 42.1 in May. Last month's reading, the highest since November, was lifted by gains in orders and production. Still, a reading below 50 signals a decline, and the index has been in the 40's since last August. 
 "I feel like we've hit bottom, and we're coming back," said Michael Kluiber, senior vice president for global automotive business at Rockwell Automation, the largest supplier of factory automation equipment for the American auto industry. "We're still not out of the woods. But every month has been better than the month before."
Spending by consumers rose 0.5 percent in May, the same level as in April and more than the 0.4 percent forecast by analysts, the Commerce Department reported. Demand for durable goods like appliances and cars jumped 1.2 percent. The report also showed that incomes grew 0.2 percent in May, the same level as a month earlier. The personal savings rate dropped to minus 1.3 percent in May from minus 1 percent in April.
Consumers are borrowing or dipping into their savings to make purchases, "an indication that people have a lot of confidence in the future of the economy," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. "They are maintaining their spending in light of a pretty clear slowdown in income, especially in wages and salaries."
Manufacturing wages declined for a second month and pay in other industries slowed in May, the report said.
A separate Commerce Department report showed construction spending rose 0.3 percent in May, to $881.6 billion at an annual rate, after a 0.4 percent increase in April. Spending on housing and public works led the increase.
Central bankers, economists and some company officials say they expect a recovery to have begun by the end of the year. The economy will probably grow 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter after expected growth of 0.5 percent in the second three months of the year, according to a survey of analysts. The economy grew 1.2 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter.
The increase will probably come from the six interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve as well as a tax-lowering plan enacted by Congress that includes cash rebates. The government will start mailing rebate checks on July 23.
"Consumers are doing their part to keep the economy out of recession," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management in St. Louis. "The economy appears to be shaking off its slump of the past several months."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. (December 1999 through March 2001) Personal Income and SpendingBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rates. IncomeMay: $8,631.6Change from April: 7,087.2 ConsumptionMay: +0.5Change from April: +0.2%(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rate. Monthly ChangeMay: +0.3%April: +0.4March: Unch.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); SALES REBATES (58%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SAVINGS; INCOME; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); ROCKWELL AUTOMATION INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%) NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); ROK (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



66 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2083 words

HEADLINE: Fast Investments, Missing Returns; 
U.S. Charges Internet Operation Was a Huge Scam

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD 

DATELINE: OKLAHOMA CITY 

 BODY:
By last September, life was getting rough for Donald A. English.
 An unemployed single father, Mr. English was almost out of cash. His family was threatened with eviction. Collection agencies were at the door. His credit cards were mostly tapped out. 
 With the walls closing in, Mr. English, 53, decided to grab for a distinctly modern solution to his crumbling finances: He started his own dot-com. 
But this was no ordinary Internet company. Instead, government investigators said, it was the centerpiece of a huge scam. With it, they said, this down-and-outer from Midwest City, Okla., established one of history's fastest frauds, conning tens of thousands of small investors out of as much as $50 million in a matter of weeks, until the scheme collapsed early this year in scandal.
The rapid-fire rise and fall of Mr. English and his enterprise, EE-Biz Ventures, is more than just a tale of potential fraud on Internet time. It has also exposed, investigators said, a strange corner of the cyberspace investing world, one permeated with financial fantasies spun by assorted hucksters and believed by legions of the gullible.
It is a place of fictitious currencies and make-believe investments, where 100 percent returns over a few days are not only promised but expected. Investigators have stumbled across imaginary banks hawking nonexistent "digital" certificates of deposit, illusory trillion-dollar government obligations and bogus business deals to "lease" millions of dollars in cash. 
The fantasy world is so detailed that, in one instance, the government was struggling to cash a $9 million check posted in the English case, only to find that the bank on which the check was drawn did not exist. And then there are the bizarre individuals connected to the case, like the purported financier who claims to be in radio contact with a 9-foot-6 extraterrestrial circling the earth in a spaceship.
"When you look at what went on here, you have to willingly suspend any sense of reality," said J. Chris Condren, an Oklahoma lawyer appointed by a federal court as a receiver for EE-Biz. "It's like Rumpelstiltskin. You have to believe in fairy tales to buy into this."
Regardless of the oddities, government officials said, the harm done by Mr. English is all too real. 
"While a lot of this may seem silly and absurd, we have real victims and real losses here," said Spencer Barasch, associate administrator for the Securities and Exchange Commission's Fort Worth office, which is handling the case. "And a lot of these victims are elderly and vulnerable."
These days, Mr. English sits in a federal prison here, charged with contempt for ignoring a court order that he disclose the location of almost $9 million that is missing. As for the victims, many still have not accepted that they were cheated and send e-mails regularly to the S.E.C. and other officials, demanding the release of the man who promised to lead them to financial prosperity.
William B. Federman, a lawyer for Mr. English, declined to comment on the specifics of the accusations against his client.
From the beginning, there was nothing particularly clever about EE-Biz, according to an S.E.C. complaint filed here. It was, the agency said, a simple Ponzi scheme, in which early investors are paid bogus profits with money from new investors. Eventually, as new cash stops coming in, the music stops and the scheme collapses, leaving the latest investors with huge losses even as early investors like Mr. English can walk away with fortunes.
In the case of EE-Biz, court records show, investors who signed up opened an account with a legitimate company that functioned like a bank, using an Internet currency known as e-gold. Then, they transferred dollars in e-gold -- a transaction known as a spend, involving as little as $20 or as much as several thousand -- to an e-gold account, controlled by someone else. The early investors received double their money back, with no explanation of how it was done. As word spread of the payouts, investors flocked to the site to participate. 
Mr. English himself had been a victim of a number of similar schemes and decided to open up his own, according to transcripts of chat room conversations. Those transcripts indicate that Mr. English himself may not have completely understood the bogus nature of the plan.
"The way it is set up is really kool, and we will make plenty and pay everyone, too," Mr. English wrote in the chat room. But then, for several minutes he struggled to understand how the plan could take in $300, only to pay out $600 days later.
"Where does the additional $300 come from so everyone gets paid?" Mr. English asked repeatedly. To solve that problem, Mr. English ultimately suggested that he would invest money in other Ponzi schemes.
According to records of EE-Biz investors, the company was formed last Oct. 21 by Mr. English and five others. Mr. English took the title of chief financial officer. The others -- who were mostly unemployed, with little experience in the business world -- were each named president.
Yet Mr. English "was the only one who knew how the money was being made," George Anderton, one founder, wrote in a memo to the S.E.C. "He refused to tell us but assured us that he had done massive work with his legal team to ensure that everything was legal, moral and had the blessings of all of the applicable regulatory agencies."
Actually, Mr. English had no such approvals -- and later, when he consulted a lawyer, he was told that his idea could not be carried out legally in Oklahoma, according to a confidential EE-Biz document.
The false assurances of compliance were part of an attempt to make EE-Biz stand out from other Internet Ponzi schemes, investigators said. But Mr. English went further, recruiting promoters for the site who were compensated for chatting up EE-Biz in cyberspace.
EE-Biz was also dressed up in the garb of a quasi-charitable organization to attract religious investors. Mr. English held the company out as a humanitarian group helping families with their finances. 
The promotion lured investors from around the world. According to information later seized by inspectors for the Postal Service, EE-Biz victimized people from all 50 states and the District of Columbia, as well as from Canada, Australia, New Zealand and other countries.
"Their lives are lived in the virtual world rather than the real world," Mr. Condren, the EE-Biz receiver, said of the investors, many of whom he has contacted. "They live all day long on the Internet. They stay up all night on the Internet."
To manage the Web site, Mr. English hired an Internet specialist named Kevin Thiesse. Before taking the job, Mr. Thiesse and a colleague spoke with Mr. English "and asked him whether EE-Biz Ventures was a 'Ponzi' scheme," Mr. Thiesse wrote in a subsequent e-mail to investors. Mr. English "assured us that EE-Biz Ventures was not a Ponzi scheme and that he was legitimately investing the funds offshore."
Money for EE-Biz poured in so fast that Mr. English's money problems were quickly solved. Banking records show that he opened multiple accounts, with tens of thousands of dollars running through them. 
With the flow of cash came a taste for spending. Weeks after being unable to pay his rent, Mr. English paid $23,000 for a silver Ford Mustang. Days later, he returned to the dealership with $25,000 for a pickup truck. Receipts show that he also spent tens of thousands of dollars for new computer equipment, videocassette recorders and other big-ticket items. The good life, it seemed, had come to the English home.
Soon, problems cropped up. Demand for EE-Biz was so strong that the computer systems crashed, stopping not only the payouts but also the influx of new money. Then in December, investors -- many needed cash for the holidays -- slowed their contributions. Payouts stopped completely, and complaints began.
"I need at the least a full refund of the $3,000 spend if you do not intend to pay anyone back," one investor wrote. "Remember, I have cancer and am unable to work for the next six months."
A couple in their 70's wrote Mr. English, explaining how they had been heavily in debt when they heard of EE-Biz and had taken out a loan to participate. "Had EE-Biz rolled just one more time, we would have been well on our way to recovery," the couple wrote. "We sure would be most grateful to you and EE-Biz for any help we may receive at this low tide in our lives."
As the pleas for help came in, Mr. English thrashed about for new money. Before Christmas, he sent an e-mail to investors, asking for financial support. Then, he sent another e-mail, saying that if everyone did not put in more money, their initial investments would be lost. That shocked the specialists running the EE-Biz Web site.
"The letter was nothing less than a letter of extortion," Mr. Thiesse wrote in a subsequent communication to investors. "It was requiring investors to make further spends in hope of obtaining their money."
Distressed, Mr. Thiesse and a colleague made some calls and became convinced that EE-Biz was a scam. They shut down the site. 
But with a list of as many as 56,000 gullible investors, EE-Biz attracted other get-rich-quick schemers. According to court depositions, Mr. English and several other EE-Biz founders met at a Florida hotel with a man promising to engineer a giant currency trade. For the deal, the group was told that they needed to raise more than $1 million, which would be used to "lease" $100 million from a shadowy Hong Kong entrepreneur. 
The proposal was ridiculous on its face -- why would anyone put his own money at risk so that others could take huge profits? But the EE-Biz investors sensed nothing wrong, and forwarded several hundred thousand dollars. The money has since disappeared. 
Investors contacted the government, and the S.E.C. quickly filed a complaint against Mr. English and EE-Biz, demanding that he return the money. Mr. English was also put on notice that he was a target of a criminal investigation.
Mr. English broached the idea of a plea deal, under which he would return $9 million that the government concluded had disappeared. The money, he said, would be provided by a benefactor named Garry Stroud, a resident of Canada who claimed to be the principal in a Swiss bank, Euro Credit and Exchange. The government agreed, after receiving sworn affidavits from both men that the money would not come out of the proceeds from EE-Biz.
In March, a $9 million check arrived from Mr. Stroud. But officials soon learned it was all a ruse: Euro Credit was not a real bank.
In a letter to the S.E.C., Mr. Stroud accused the government of failing to cash the check properly. The check, he wrote, should have been sent by courier to his bank's offices in Geneva, which would then cash it. But investigators checked out the story, and found that the offices were nothing more than rental space and that Mr. Stroud had given instructions that checks sent to the address were to be forwarded to him in Canada.
"He wrote a check that would only be cashed when it was sent back to him," said Harold R. Loftin Jr., an S.E.C. lawyer in the EE-Biz case. "The whole thing was ridiculous."
The more they examined Mr. Stroud, the more uncomfortable investigators became. The primary financial asset he listed was a half interest in a purported Peruvian debt, which he said was now an obligation of the American government for more than $1 trillion. The half interest was granted to him by the woman who said she was in contact with a space alien.
Why would Mr. Stroud, who did not return phone calls, go through the charade? Largely, officials say, to get a crack at the EE-Biz investors. 
According to a recently filed S.E.C. suit, Mr. Stroud has a history of defrauding investors. Already, he has informed EE-Biz investors that he deposited money they lost in accounts at Euro Credit. And while the investors can see the money in their name at the Euro Credit Web site, they cannot take any out. To do that, they have to send more money to Mr. Stroud, who says he will then provide a bank card that will allow withdrawals from any A.T.M. On top of that, he is offering the investors an opportunity to participate in another program to double their money.
And how have they responded? Many investors have already sent Mr. Stroud their money -- throwing another $300,000 away, by the S.E.C.'s estimate. Now they are anxiously awaiting the delivery of working debit cards that investigators believe will never come.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "When you look at what went on here, you have to willingly suspend any sense of reality," said J. Chris Condren, an Oklahoma lawyer appointed as a receiver for EE-Biz. "You have to believe in fairy tales to buy into this."; Donald A. English as he arrived at the federal courthouse in Oklahoma City on June 5. He is at the center of an investigation into what the government says is a $50 million Internet fraud. (Above, Nate Billings for The New York Times; below, Roger Klock/The Daily Oklahoman)(pg. C1); A copy of a $9 million check drawn on the Euro Credit and Exchange Bank, which United States officials said was not a real bank.; Spencer Barasch, left, associate administrator for the S.E.C.'s Fort Worth office, and Harold R. Loftin Jr., a lawyer for the agency. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EVICTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); LAWYERS (65%) FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PYRAMID SCHEMES; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: EE-BIZ VENTURES 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; ENGLISH, DONALD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



67 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Little 'Quiet' in Israel: 3 Arabs Die, Palestinians Retaliate 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 2 

 BODY:
The tenuous truce that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell tried to reinforce here last week was strained to the breaking point today when Palestinians killed an Israeli motorist and detonated car bombs in retaliation for Israel's killing of three West Bank militants late Sunday.
 In an effort to keep the violence from worsening, American intelligence agents held a late-night meeting with Palestinian and Israeli security officials in Tel Aviv. But diplomats were deeply pessimistic about the prospects for the full week of "quiet" that Israel has demanded before it will relax economic and travel restrictions on Palestinians and resume political talks. 
 "The events of the past two days show how fragile the cease-fire is," Terje Larsen, the chief United Nations representative in the region, said today. "All indications now are that it will not hold." 
The car bombs, which exploded early this morning in a blue-collar neighborhood east of Tel Aviv, caused no serious injuries. But an Israeli driver was shot dead this afternoon on a border-zone road near a Palestinian town, Tulkarm, prompting cries for retaliation from the Israeli right.
Nearby on the West Bank, in Jenin, thousands of angry Palestinians marched in a funeral procession, bearing aloft the bodies of three young men killed late Sunday night by missiles fired on their car from Israeli helicopters. An Israeli military spokesman said the fusillade thwarted a terror attack. 
The bodies were wrapped in the flags of the radical Islamic Jihad movement, and mourners chanted slogans vowing revenge. 
Hours later, outside Nablus, Israeli troops shot and killed a Palestinian who they said was holding a suspicious object. Palestinians said the man was a taxi driver tossing a bag of garbage into a rubbish heap.
In the evening, Palestinian snipers wounded a Jewish settler driving in the West Bank, and the Israeli Army reported isolated shootings at its posts in Bethlehem, Ramallah and southern Gaza.
"We think the Palestinians have not done enough to fight terror and to end the violence," Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said in Washington. "We also want to make clear that we remain opposed to Israel's policy of targeted killings."
At the United Nations, Secretary General Kofi Annan called on both the Israelis and Palestinians to exercise maximum restraint, adding that neither side could achieve security without progress on political issues.
Mr. Larsen met in Gaza this morning with the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat, whom he described later as "furious" about the previous night's helicopter strike by the Israelis.
"This was a flagrant violation of the cease-fire," Mr. Arafat told reporters as he left the meeting. "It is an ugly crime against our citizens."
Still, Mr. Arafat vowed to continue to try to enforce the cease-fire, Mr. Larsen said.
But several Palestinian militant groups declared after Israel's attack that the truce Mr. Arafat had asked them to honor was no longer in force. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestinian, a small leftist faction, claimed responsibility for the car bombs this morning, which they said were retaliation for the helicopter assault and the killing of two other Palestinian activists earlier Sunday. 
The Islamic Jihad declared that "every Zionist in every inch of Palestine and the depth of Zionist settlements will be a target for our human bombs, our car bombs and our bullets."
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, defending the helicopter strike as "active self-defense," shrugged off the threats, saying: "The Palestinians announced they will end the cease-fire. I don't know what cease-fire they are talking about. I don't know of one quiet day so far."
Israeli politicians from across the spectrum endorsed the helicopter strike, accepting the army's assertion that the three men had loaded the car with explosives and were planning to bomb an Israeli target. An army spokesman said today that the army knew when and where the men had planned to strike, but could not give details without compromising intelligence information. 
"This is not fire directed against innocent people," said the transportation minister, Efraim Sneh, a Labor party leader and former general. "This is an operational action against those who are planning terror attacks."
Palestinians challenged the suggestion by some Israeli officials that the helicopters were dispatched at short notice to frustrate an imminent attack. The oldest of the three men killed, Mohammad Ahmed Besharat, 28, identified in Israel as a Hamas leader but said in Jenin to belong to Islamic Jihad, had been the target of a failed Israeli assassination attempt one month earlier, Palestinians said. Mr. Besharat was said by Israeli officials to have been involved in terror bombings in two Israeli cities, Hadera and Netanya.
Also killed in the car was Samech Nur Ziab, 22, an officer in the Palestinian Coast Guard who Israeli officials said was an explosives expert, and Walid Sudki Besharat.
Some Palestinian officials contended that the raid was a premeditated Israeli attempt to keep a truce from taking hold in order to avoid subsequent political negotiations. 
"I am not a Shin Bet man, nor a member of the Palestinian security apparatus," Ziyad Abu Zayyad, a Palestinian cabinet minister, said on Israeli Army radio. "I am a political man. But I can also read what's happening on the ground, and what's happening on the ground testifies that there's an Israeli strategic decision to try to evade the cease-fire."
Speaking anonymously, Israeli military officers told Israeli reporters today that the attack was carried out in accordance with a cabinet directive issued before Mr. Sharon departed for the United States last week. That directive was also said to have authorized the killing of a Fatah leader in Nablus, Osama Jabara, who died June 24 in an explosion in a public telephone booth that he regularly used. Israeli officials said Mr. Jabara had prepared bombs for use against civilian Israeli targets. 
According to Palestinian human rights organizers, 25 Palestinians have been killed in 16 Israeli assassinations since November, including six bystanders. Most targets were political militants known to oppose peace agreements with Israel, or members of Palestinian security forces that Israel contends had taken part in armed attacks during the last nine months.
Israeli human rights groups have protested what they say is an undeclared government policy of "extrajudicial executions" of suspected terrorists. European diplomats said today that the European Union planned to condemn the helicopter assault.
The Israeli government has never acknowledged that it carries out pre-emptive assassinations of Palestinians it considers security threats. But after many of the earlier incidents, government radio and television news programs cited unidentified officials defending what they called the "liquidations." Such was the case today, as army officers offered biographical details about the slain men, saying they had been identified as security threats long before and had been killed deliberately.
"They are not interested in having people talk, in a cooling-off period, in dialogue," said Mr. Sneh, the transportation minister. "That contradicts their world view."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three Palestinians killed by Israelis late Sunday were buried yesterday in Jenin, and mourners vowed again to take revenge for their deaths. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Israel highlighting Tulkarm: Among several outbreaks, an Israeli was killed at Tulkarm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); ARMIES (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); HELICOPTERS (65%); RELIGION (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); HEZBOLLAH (54%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (54%)

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



68 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Planners Are Guessing Because of Iraq 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
When the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in Vienna today to take up its delicate task -- keeping oil prices high without crippling the global economy -- it will likely be hamstrung in its planning by one of its own, Iraq.
 Iraq pulled its exports off the world market last month to protest a British-American plan to revise radically the sanctions by the United Nations that have been in place since the war in the Persian Gulf. Though that plan is off the table for now, it remains unclear if Iraq will resume exports -- and, therefore, what sort of market OPEC will operate in. 
 Most analysts expect the cartel to hold production levels steady, at 24.2 million barrels a day, out of satisfaction with a supply-demand equilibrium that has kept prices in the $25-a-barrel range. 
OPEC members have pointed out that with supplies ample -- despite the halt in Iraqi exports -- crude oil prices have retreated since peaking above $30 in mid-May. Yesterday, oil for August delivery fell 1.1 percent, to $25.95 in New York.
So far, the cartel has been reluctant to officially increase production quotas, for fear that Iraq could soon turn on the pumps and flood world markets with petroleum, driving prices down further.
The danger, analysts say, is if OPEC is guessing wrong about its most inscrutable member. If Iraq stays out of the market through the peak driving season in the United States -- the world's biggest oil consumer -- prices could rise enough to rattle the already-fragile world economy, experts warn.
"It's as if OPEC by not doing anything is cutting production at a high-demand time," said Amy Myers Jaffe, senior energy adviser at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. "This could tighten markets considerably. That is going to affect the price of oil and send it up."
Iraq's fury was provoked by an British-American effort to revise the so-called oil-for-food program, established under United Nations sanctions to let Iraq sell oil to meet its citizens' basic needs. The plan would have expanded civilian trade while tightening controls on the smuggling of oil and prohibited weapons.
Rather than invite an expected Russian veto of that proposal, the United States and Britain decided to seek a five-month extension of the current program, which expires at midnight today.
Iraq, before its recent exit from the world market, exported a little more than two million barrels a day. Anywhere from 500,000 to one million barrels of that total made its way to the United States on a given day, or 5 percent to 11 percent of this country's daily imports. 
Over the last month, other OPEC members have informally replaced some of the missing Iraqi oil by exporting about 700,000 barrels a day above their quotas, industry experts said. That means, however, that markets are still shy more than one million barrels a day.
Analysts said that it is still too early to assess the impact of Iraq's export cutoff. "It takes 30 to 40 days for the drop in Iraqi exports to show up in U.S. inventory figures," said Adam E. Sieminski, senior oil analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "In another week or two, people will be going the other way with prices, because they will see the loss of the Iraqi barrels."
For now, OPEC appears comfortable with that possibility, said Raad Alkadiri, an expert on Iraq and oil at the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. 
"This approach creates a risk later in the year that supplies will be tight," Mr. Alkadiri said, referring to OPEC's likely decision to keep production steady. "But OPEC is willing to take the risk that prices might go too high rather than do something and have prices fall too low."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Selling juice in Baghdad, where oil exports and food are closely tied. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C2) Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since Jan., 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); SMUGGLING (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PRODUCTION 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



69 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
I.B.M. Will Cut Jobs In Its Services Group

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 2 

 BODY:
I.B.M., in an effort to hone the size and shape of its services group, announced layoffs today that could affect as much as 1 percent of the fast-growing division's jobs in America.
 I.B.M. declined to give a figure, but roughly 750 positions could be cut if 1 percent of positions were shed in the United States, which has roughly half the 150,000 employees in Global Services, I.B.M.'s consulting arm. 
 The layoffs were being made by local managers trying to respond to changing client demand and did not reflect a business slowdown, I.B.M. said.
"This is not a voluntary program," said Jan Butler, a spokeswoman for Global Services. "I think today is the day that some people are being notified, but it is something we do."
The cuts come as investors are looking for clues to the state of the economy, but, "This is not a signal of anything," Ms. Butler said. "I wouldn't say it is a matter of business slowing down."
Global Services, I.B.M.'s consulting and outsourcing arm, brought in more than one-third of the corporation's sales in its last fiscal year and has helped it weather the economic downturn better than many other technology firms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CONSULTANTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



70 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2855 words

HEADLINE: Epidemic Takes Toll on Black Women 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: GREENWOOD, Miss. 

 BODY:
Here in the rural South, the image of AIDS today looks very much like Tyeste W. Roney.
 Not a gay white man. Not a crack-addicted prostitute. But a 20-year-old black woman with a gold stud in her nose, an orange bandanna covering her braids, and her nickname, Easha, tattooed on one leg. 
 In the back of her mind at least, Ms. Roney had known for years that she could contract H.I.V. by having unprotected sex. Her mother had been telling her so since Ms. Roney was 13, when she lost her virginity. But either the lesson did not stick, or Ms. Roney did not have the power to negotiate safer sex with older lovers. She says that many of the men she can count as partners did not use condoms. 
In February, after enduring 10 days of bleeding, Ms. Roney went to a health clinic. First a nurse surprised her by telling her that she had been pregnant and had miscarried. Then the nurse asked Ms. Roney if she knew she was carrying the virus that causes AIDS.
"I said, 'Get out of here, that can't be so,' " Ms. Roney recalled. "I just broke down and cried. I thought I wasn't going to be here long. Maybe a month."
It is a scene that has become all too familiar for poor black women here in the Mississippi Delta and across the rural South. Even as the AIDS epidemic has subsided elsewhere in the United States, it has taken firm root among women in places like Greenwood, where messages about prevention and protection are often overtaken by the daily struggle to get by.
Researchers say that in many ways the epidemic in the South more closely resembles the situation of the developing world than of the rest of the country. Joblessness, substance abuse, teenage pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, inadequate schools, minimal access to health care and entrenched poverty all conspire here to thwart the progress that has been made among other high-risk groups, particularly gay men.
While AIDS rates in the United States remain lower among women than men, women now account for a fourth of all newly diagnosed cases, double the percentage from 10 years ago. That growth has largely been driven by the disproportionate spread of the disease among heterosexual black women, particularly in the South.
For those who contract H.I.V. or AIDS in the rural South, life can become intensely isolated. Because of widespread misunderstandings about the ways H.I.V. is transmitted, the stigma facing those who are infected is often suffocating.
Many women are terrified to tell even their families, and they find their only comfort in the monthly meetings of a support group. One woman here, who lives with her son, is convinced that he would make her eat on paper plates and would keep her away from her grandchildren if he knew of her illness. Ms. Roney, who has informed only her family members, said she lost several neighborhood friends after they saw a health department van pull into her driveway to pick her up for a clinic visit.
Black women, who make up 7 percent of the nation's population, accounted for 16 percent of all new AIDS diagnoses in 1999, a percentage that has grown steadily since the syndrome was first identified 20 years ago. By comparison, black men made up 35 percent, white men 27 percent, Latino men 14 percent, and white and Latino women were each 4 percent.
While the number of new AIDS cases in the United States began to decline in the mid-1990's, the reversal started later for Southern black women, and the drop has been slower.
From 1981 to 1999, 26,522 black women developed AIDS in the 11 states of the former Confederacy. In Mississippi and North Carolina, statistics show that more black women than white men have contracted H.I.V. over the epidemic's course.
Unless a cure is found, the share of AIDS patients who are black and female is likely to rise. The trend is strikingly visible in Southern states with large black populations. Here in Mississippi, 28.5 percent of those reporting new H.I.V. infections in 2000 were black women, up from 13 percent in 1990. In Alabama, the number rose to 31 percent, from 13 percent. In North Carolina, it rose to 27 percent, from 18 percent.
"While the H.I.V. epidemic is also increasingly affecting men in the South and black men, the overall trends for women are distinct," concluded researchers with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in a paper published in March in The Journal of the American Medical Association. "The H.I.V. epidemic in women initially centered on injection drug-using women in the urban Northeast, but now centers on women with heterosexual risk in the South."

An Explosive Increase
In 1997, Dr. Hamza O. Brimah, a Nigerian-born physician who received training in AIDS care in London and New York, opened the Magnolia Medical Clinic in a strip mall here in affiliation with the Greenwood Leflore Hospital. Dr. Brimah is the only AIDS specialist in a nine-county area. He started with fewer than 10 AIDS patients. Now he has 185. He assumes he is seeing only a fraction of those who are actually infected.
"In the beginning, I remembered everybody's name," Dr. Brimah said. "Now I have a hard time. Who's this? Who's that? They're coming at me so fast."
Sixty percent of Dr. Brimah's AIDS patients are women and 95 percent are black, in an area where 61 percent of the population is black. Almost all were infected through heterosexual transmission, and a majority, he estimates, came to him with a history of sexually transmitted disease.
Research has shown that people with sexually transmitted diseases like syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia have twice to five times the risk of contracting H.I.V., because the diseases cause ulcerations in protective mucous membranes. The South has consistently had the country's highest rates of sexually transmitted diseases. In 1999, for instance, 9 of the 10 states with the highest rates of gonorrhea and syphilis and 7 of the 10 with the highest rates of chlamydia were in the South, according to C.D.C. figures.
Dr. Brimah hears from his patients that H.I.V. is often the least of their worries. "There are issues," he said, "of looking after children, trying to get insurance, the lack of a father in the home, alcohol, drugs. They have so much going on."
Because of that, he said, women rarely seek out H.I.V. testing for themselves or their partners. Many of his patients, like Ms. Roney, learn that they are positive only when they become pregnant.
The other thing Dr. Brimah hears repeatedly from his patients is that they understood before they were infected that H.I.V. could be transmitted heterosexually. Typically, they hold no misconceptions that H.I.V. victimizes only gay white men. And yet, like smokers, speeders and drug users, they place themselves knowingly at risk.
Dr. Brimah told of one patient who dutifully took annual H.I.V. tests for three years, who clearly understood the nature of the virus and who then tested positive in the fourth year. "She was clued up, but she took the risk," he said. "She really couldn't explain it."
The women often struggle to explain their recklessness. They look down at the floor when asked to discuss their sexual behavior. Even those who have had many sexual partners will say that they were choosy, that they had known their partners for years, sometimes for a lifetime, and that they trusted them. Over and over, they say, they just did not think it could happen to them.
"I just wasn't thinking about no H.I.V., and I wasn't thinking about no AIDS and I wasn't thinking about no pregnancy," Ms. Roney said. "I was just being hardheaded. I don't know any other way to break it down."
Jean, a 44-year-old woman with AIDS who did not want her last name used, said she fell into a fast lifestyle after getting divorced in 1987. She said she might have had 30 to 35 partners over the last 10 years, and that they only occasionally used condoms.
"I guess I just blocked it out of my mind," she said. "I thought I had a good heart so it wouldn't happen to me. I knew it could happen, I guess, but I was just being stupid."
Health workers and researchers who hear these stories say that such high-stakes risk-taking may seem to make no sense, but that it must be viewed within the context of lives defined by fatalism, faith and powerlessness. Often they say, there is little to break the tedium and despondency of life here, and certainly little that provides pleasure, other than sex.
"There's a sense that you don't control your life that much, and if God wants me to have H.I.V. I'll get it," said Kathryn Whetten-Goldstein, an assistant professor of public policy at Duke who has been studying AIDS in Southern states. "All of their life experiences teach them that they have very little control over their future."
Some girls start having sex at extremely young ages, almost always with older men, and find they have little ability to persuade their partners to use condoms.
"Most times I asked them to use one," said Ms. Roney, a ninth-grade dropout, "but you know how guys are. They do their little sweet talk. 'It doesn't feel the same. Let's use one next time.' I just went along with it. I fell into that trap."

Poverty, Drugs and Risk
Often, though not always, drugs and money play a vital role as well. Indeed, Dr. Brimah said the desperate need for money had become an H.I.V. risk factor in the Delta in the same way that needle-sharing was in the cities.
The Mississippi Delta, where the young green cotton crop shares the summer landscape with immense catfish farming ponds, has for years been among the poorest regions in America.
The median income here in Leflore County was $21,027 in 1997, more than $7,000 below the state median, which is itself the second lowest in the country. Three of every 10 Leflore residents live below the poverty line. The unemployment rate in April was 7.1 percent (some neighboring counties have broken well into double digits) and the recent closing of several large plants has made work even harder to find than usual.
The poverty is apparent on the rough streets and unpaved alleys of black neighborhoods like Baptisttown and McLaurin, where men and women sweat out steamy nights on the porches of dilapidated shotgun shacks. Just across the Yazoo River lies another world of brick mansions and lovingly tended lawns, where the white people live.
As everywhere, some poor women here make ends meet through prostitution. But the more common practice is a less formalized sex-for-money exchange in which nothing is negotiated up front. Rather, several women and health workers explained, there is an unstated assumption that a woman who engages in casual sex with a man will be rewarded with a little financial help, perhaps in paying the rent, perhaps in buying groceries. As one woman explained it to Dr. Brimah: "You know how it is with men, doc. No honey, no money."
Gina M. Wingood, an assistant professor of public health at Emory University who has studied AIDS in rural Alabama, said: "It's just trying to make ends meet, day-to-day survival. We sort of see it in terms of prostitution, but they see it as how they have to frame their lives, especially if they have children or elderly parents to care for."
Jean, the 44-year-old AIDS patient, said she regularly operated that way. "Some of them would pay me for sex but it wasn't like I was out on the street," she said. "The guy would just give me a little something sometimes. I had an apartment and had bills and I wasn't working."
Jerome E. Winston, a health department worker who tracks the sexual networks of infected people in the Delta, said he had heard complaints from some women about other women who accepted insufficient compensation for their companionship.
"What we had said to us a couple of times by the older girls is that the younger girls are messing up the system because they're giving it away virtually for free," Dr. Winston said. "They don't negotiate anything except for maybe a new CD or a pair of shoes."
Sex is also sometimes exchanged for drugs, particularly crack cocaine, though this seems to be more common in larger towns in the southern part of the state.
Sharyn Janes, a professor of nursing at the University of Southern Mississippi, said she heard horror stories while conducting interviews with people considered at high risk of infection. One man, she said, told her that he once drove a woman out of town when she refused his demand for sex after he gave her crack. He told her that "nobody gets a free ride" and left her to walk home, Ms. Janes said.

Tracing Sexual Networks
Because of the breadth and casualness of sexual networks here, an infection can be virtually impossible to track and control.
In the first half of 1999, for instance, health officials untangled a trail left by two H.I.V.-positive men in Greenwood who had had sex with 18 women over a three-year period. Two of the women had had sex with both men. Five were themselves infected with the virus, and they in turn had had sex with 24 other men.
A study of the cluster by the C.D.C. found that half of those interviewed had a history of other sexually transmitted diseases, that some of the H.I.V.-infected women were as young as 13, and that the median age of the infected women was 16, compared with 25 for the infected men. 
"The teenager's concept is that this guy is older so he's going to know what he's doing and he will take care of me," said Dr. Shannon L. Hader, a Centers for Disease Control researcher who studied the Greenwood cluster. "The reality is that older men have had more partners and are therefore more likely to have S.T.D.'s."
Clearly, Dr. Hader said, messages about prevention are not getting through. The rural South is politically conservative, and prevention programs in the schools tend to be episodic and focused on abstinence. Parents of students in the Greenwood schools must grant written permission before their children can be taught about condoms. Many local pastors are also reluctant to encourage explicit discussions about sex.
Dr. Hader also found a lack of knowledge about H.I.V. treatment. Five of the seven infected members of the Greenwood cluster had no idea that those with H.I.V. could now live for long periods with the help of antiretroviral drugs. That misconception has made it difficult to get patients into care, where they could also receive information about not spreading the virus.
Those who do seek care have few options. Before Dr. Brimah opened his clinic here, AIDS patients had to travel more than two hours to Jackson or Memphis, a trip that many could not make. Sandra Moore, a 32-year-old Greenwood woman who first learned that she had AIDS in 1990, would sometimes drive as far as New Orleans for treatment. Ms. Moore had withered to 60 pounds when she first visited Dr. Brimah, and was seemingly weeks away from death. Now on medication, she has increased her weight to 105 pounds and talks of living to see her four young children graduate from high school. 
The cost of treatment is also prohibitive for many here. The pills typically prescribed by Dr. Brimah can cost up to $1,200 a month. Medicaid covers many of the poorest patients, and other state and federal programs help. But the working poor often have trouble qualifying for the programs.
Last year, Dr. Brimah received a three-year, $1.2 million grant under the Ryan White Care Act, the primary source of federal money for AIDS treatment. He uses the money to pay staff members, to buy equipment, supplies and medication, and to provide transportation to needy patients.
But in general, many Southern states have received a disproportionately small share of Ryan White funds. The money is appropriated to states by a formula based on the number of people living with AIDS in that state. But the growth of the epidemic in the South has been relatively recent, and many of those infected have not progressed from H.I.V. to AIDS. Congress changed the formula last year so that money will eventually be based on H.I.V. counts, but the new system might not take effect for years.
The other factors obstructing treatment, and thus prevention, are denial and stigma. Many infected women here never tell family members and close friends for fear of being shunned and abandoned.
"A lot of people don't understand about it," said Jane Smith, who has only told her pastor and her mother-in-law since learning two years ago that she has AIDS. "I guess they're scared they can catch it from being around people with it, if they cough on them or shake their hands."
One married couple, both infected, said they were open about their status when they lived in New York but had told no one since moving to Mississippi, not even their friends at Narcotics Anonymous meetings. "Everybody would scatter if they knew," said the wife.
Jean has lied to her family members, telling them that she has cancer, and has batted away their questions. Her joy, she said, is her grandchildren, and she is convinced that her son would not let her near them if he knew.
"I want to tell my family," she said, "but I know they're not going to accept it, and I'm just not strong enough right now for them to reject me. It would just send me over the edge."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After years of unprotected sex, Tyeste W. Roney, 20, learned in February that she was H.I.V. positive. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Jean, with a mask partly concealing her face, contracted AIDS after years of unprotected sex. "I guess I just blocked it out of my mind," she said.; Dr. Hamza O. Brimah, the only AIDS specialist in a nine-county area around Greenwood, Miss., examined Tyeste W. Roney at his clinic. (Photographs by MICHELLE V. AGINS/The New York Times)(pg. A14) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Crisis in the South"An increasingly high percentage of new H.I.V. infections are occurring in black women. Figures for 2001 are preliminary. Chart shows the precentage of H.I.V. infections in black males and females for Alabama, Mississippi and North Carolina since 1990.(Source: State Health departments)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); EPIDEMICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CHILDREN (86%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); MISCARRIAGES (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (53%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; WOMEN; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HOMOSEXUALITY; BLACKS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) SOUTHERN STATES (US); GREENWOOD (MISS)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



71 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Burn Chemical Arms Worries Alabamians 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: ANNISTON, Ala., June 27 

 BODY:
There are few residents of Calhoun County's mountain ridges who do not know, to the tenth of a mile, how far they live from the smokestacks of the Army's towering new incinerator, which within a year is to begin destroying thousands of tons of the deadliest chemicals ever devised.
 People here have been told that a shrill whoop-whoop is the most serious of several public-address siren tones, signaling a toxic leak of nerve or mustard gas. They have been shown how to operate government-issued alert radios designed to awaken them should a catastrophe occur. And the 35,000 people who live too close to the incinerator to be evacuated after an accident are being issued plastic sheeting and duct tape to seal their windows and doors should one occur. Local officials, leery of the duct-tape approach, are pressing the federal government to distribute 35,000 protective hoods, too. 
 For 40 years, people here have shared eastern Alabama's piedmont with 2,254 tons of lethal chemicals, packed in aging rockets and mortar rounds and sealed in reinforced concrete bunkers, known as igloos, at the Anniston Army Depot. Most have uneasily come to terms with the slim possibility of a chemical disaster as a trade-off for the military's strong economic presence in the area. 
But now that the Army is getting ready to burn those chemicals, there is a heightened sense of concern among many of the 75,000 people who live within 10 miles of the depot. The $1 billion incinerator is to begin destroying the munitions and their contents next April, and many residents say they are profoundly worried about the safety of the procedure and the federal government's preparedness for an accident.
Anniston stores only 7 percent of the nation's chemical stockpile, but it is the most populous of the eight sites around the country where chemical weapons are being stored or destroyed. Aware that its actions here will profoundly affect the future of America's $14 billion disposal program, the Army is working hard to reassure the public that incineration is far safer than continued storage of the old weapons.
Government officials now acknowledge that more than 800 of the mortar rounds and M-55 rockets in the igloos have actually leaked minuscule amounts of deadly nerve gas. They have even distributed pictures of the aging shells to demonstrate an urgent need for disposal.
County officials agree with the Army's warnings that it is far more dangerous to leave the rusting weapons in their igloos than to burn them, but they are bitterly critical of the government's emergency preparations. They consider the duct-tape plan -- reminiscent of the Israeli response to Iraqi missile attacks -- entirely inadequate. So they are insisting that the federal government buy residents who are closest to the incinerator the 35,000 gas-filter hoods, which look like gas masks but fit over the neck as well as the head, at a cost of $10 million. 
"If there's an accident at the incinerator, there would be far too much exposure if people are asked to tape up their homes in the eight minutes it would take for a gas plume to spread," said Michael A. Burney, director of the county's Emergency Management Agency. "We think these hoods would provide far better protection, and would allow people to evacuate in a timely and orderly fashion." The hoods would protect the wearer for six to eight hours.
The proposal, which has been submitted to the Army and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, raises the possibility that 35,000 adults and children would have to carry the hoods with them everywhere they go in the zones near the depot -- to the grocery store, to the movies and to school -- for at least six years and possibly longer, until the burning is complete.
Many residents disdain plans for either hoods or plastic sheeting, and say the weapons should be left in their igloos until a safer technology is developed. They cite an accident at a Utah weapons incinerator in May of last year that allowed a small amount of the nerve gas sarin -- the type used by terrorists to kill 12 people on a Japanese subway in 1995 -- to escape from the smokestack into the atmosphere. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention later determined that the leak had been too small to pose a danger, but the incident has undermined the Army's assurances about the safety of the procedure among an already nervous populace.
"That stuff has been safe underground for 40 years, but once you start moving it around, you know it's not safe anymore," said Elvin Hall Jr., an electrician who lives in one of the neighborhoods closest to the incinerator, four and a half miles away. "I just wish they'd leave it alone."
Army officials say they are disappointed that so much public emphasis has been placed on the risks of incineration when, they say, the dangers of continued storage of the depot's 661,000 chemical weapons are so much greater. Until a few years ago, the Army spent decades assuring the public that storage was quite safe, and in fact there has never been any serious exposure to stored chemical weapons. But now the Army is fully committed to its incineration program, and is talking freely about the growing danger of leaks of sarin, VX and mustard gas. 
"Those M-55 rockets are extremely fragile munitions," said Lt. Col. Bruce E. Williams, commander of Anniston Chemical Activity, in an admission that would have been unthinkable during the cold war. "We think we can continue to store them safely, but you can't escape the fact that if there were a one-in-a-million earthquake, or lightning strike, or a 747 crashing on an igloo, the damage would dwarf the worst-case thing that could ever happen at the incinerator. The only real protection I can offer this community is to destroy this stockpile, and destroy it quickly."
Since Congress ordered the destruction of the chemical arsenal in 1985, the Army has incinerated 2,000 tons of chemicals on Johnston Atoll, near Hawaii. Another incinerator, at Tooele, Utah, has destroyed 5,100 tons since it began operation in 1996. Although there have been several instances of small internal spills and of workers' being exposed at the Tooele incinerator, no one has been seriously hurt, and the only leak to get outside was the one in May 2000. Timothy K. Garrett, the project manager for the Anniston incinerator, said the Tooele event had "opened our eyes" and provided valuable lessons for the local plant, which he said had added a $50 million charcoal filter to its smokestack that the other incinerators do not have.
Incinerators are also being built at chemical weapons arsenals in Pine Bluff, Ark., and Umatilla, Ore. Two other depots, in Aberdeen, Md., and Newport, Ind., will use another process, chemical neutralization, for disposal, and no method has yet been chosen for the remaining depots, in Pueblo, Colo., and Richmond, Ky.
The Army has invited local residents to tour the 19-acre incinerator before it begins operation in April, hoping to impress them with the plant's thick concrete walls and massive airlock doors, remote-control conveyer lines and elaborate mazes of filtered ductwork. But only a few hundred have made it out to the plant, which is not far from the sinister-looking igloos, and its effect on the community has been clear: Scores of houses around the depot are for sale, but no one is buying. Many houses and mobile homes sit empty. Calhoun was the only county in the northern half of Alabama to lose population in the most recent census, and its leaders have no doubt that the incinerator was the reason.
"We hadn't had a house for sale on my street in 23 years, and now four or five or them are for sale," said James Eli Henderson, a county commissioner from the depot area. "There's been no new industry to locate in our county in three years. I feel like the government should compensate us for all this economic damage, but all we're getting is plastic and duct tape."
Federal officials have not dismissed the request for gas hoods, but they seem amazed that so many people in the county do not consider the incinerator the best long-term investment for the region, permanently eliminating a dreadful weapon for the benefit of future generations.
"It's specious to argue that we need masks when the incinerator itself is going to destroy these weapons," Colonel Williams said. "Nobody appreciates more than I do how horrendous those weapons are, but that's why I'm so motivated to see them destroyed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, one of the containers that will carry the weapons to disposal. Above, a protective hood of the kind sought by local officials.; The Alabama plant where incineration of chemical weapons is to begin next spring. Despite the Army's assurances, many residents voice concern. (Photographs by Grant Blankenship) Map of Alabama highlighting Anniston: Anniston is the most populous site of a chemical weapons depot. Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Disposing of Chemical Weapons"The Army is in the process of destroying, mainly by incineration, its entire stockpile of chemical weapons. The weapons, nerve gas and mustard gas, have been stored at eight sites in the continantial United States and on an atoll southwest of Hawaii. LocationTooele, UtahTOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 13,616 Pine Bluff, Ark.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 3,850 Umatilla, Ore.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 3,717 Pueblo, Colo.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 2,611 Anniston, Ala.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 2,254 Johnston AtollTOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 2,031 Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 1,623 Newport, Ind.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 1,269 Richmond, Ky.TOTAL CHEMICAL WEAPONS (in tons): 523(Source: U.S. Army Program Manager for Chemical Demilitarization)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FIRES (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%) BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INCINERATORS 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: PINE BLUFF, AR, USA (79%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (59%) ALABAMA, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) ANNISTON (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



72 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Tunnel Vision; 
Underground And Now Cool: The L Train

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
In 1997, to the groans of everyone in the neighborhood whose lease was coming up, Utne Reader magazine declared Williamsburg to be the third-hippest place in America to live. (Just behind the Lower Garden District in New Orleans and the Inner Mission in San Francisco.)
 Now, at the risk of driving rents up even higher along Bedford Avenue, it is probably time to go the next step and declare the L train to be the hippest train in the subway. 
 This superlative, as arbitrary as most, must be pronounced with the tongue resting slightly in the cheek. And with a few caveats. In general, it refers only to the train's last two or three cars, which are closest to the stairs that emerge onto Bedford Avenue, the epicenter of Williamsburg's gentrification. The designation applies mostly to a small segment of the line, between Union Square and the Lorimer Street station in Brooklyn, but the highest concentration of hipness is achieved between just two stops, Bedford and the First Avenue station in the East Village. 
Of course, hip is in the eye of the beholder. There is a good chance, for example, that the young Satmar Hasidic guy with very tall black beaver hat who was riding the other end of the L recently is the hippest guy on his block.
But, having said that, a good test for the kind of hipness being referred to here was found recently on the Web site of a Williamsburg resident, who said of the L train, "You'll know if you're in the right car if it looks like MTV's 'Road Rules.' "
Caroline Duval-Arnould, 26, an interior designer who waited in the Bedford Avenue station last week, described it this way: "If you go closer to the front of the train, it's less crowded. And the people look, well, I guess, more average."
To figure out what they mean, spend a long evening riding the last car of the L between Manhattan and Williamsburg. The median age of the riders seems to be about 25. There are many expensive, elaborate tattoos and piercings and personal digital assistants. The women seem to outnumber the men. The men seem to be either skinny and wearing black-rimmed glasses or skinny and carrying skateboards. The women seem mostly to be ignoring the men and sizing themselves up against one another. 
"This can be fun, when you're dressed for it," said a Williamsburg woman on another Web site, who then lamented: "My friends, these days I'm sorta unemployed and my wardrobe generally consists of a pair of jeans I wear until they walk to work by themselves, alongside me."
The L-train look is not necessarily expensive. Ms. Duval-Arnould, wearing flip-flops last week, said her favorite skirt cost $5. The look seems to be getting more expensive, along with the neighborhood, according to longtime observers. (Three young women stood in a car near each other last week with representative purchases: a lavender Bergdorf Goodman bag, a black box of Nine West shoes, a pink-striped bag from Victoria's Secret and an orange bag from Do Kham, a Tibetan clothier in SoHo.)
David Tiller, playing a mandolin near the back stairs of the Bedford Avenue station, said he had recently moved in from Colorado and was still trying to get a handle on the look.
"It's not Paris fashion," he said as a carload of attractive people streamed past him. "But it sure is some kind of fashion."
Dave Morffy, a freelance photographer, knew how to place it. He came east from California six weeks ago. He is couch-surfing between the West Village and Williamsburg, and he said the L train reminded him very much of San Francisco.
"Which is very nice," said Mr. Morffy, his arms sinuously tattooed and his eyes protected with dark shades against the train's fluorescent glare.
"I noticed right away," he added, "that how cool you are depends on which stop you get off at in Brooklyn."
Sheila O'Shea, a musician who has lived in Williamsburg for 13 years, has noticed a few other, more practical, things as the neighborhood has become hipper -- or, described another way, younger and wealthier.
For many years, there was no pay phone in the Bedford Avenue station, Ms. O'Shea said. Now there is a pay phone. For many years, no one played music down on the platform. Now there is music all the time. ("Last week, there was a woman down here with an Irish harp. An Irish harp!") For many years, she said, there were two amiable homeless men who practically lived in the station. Now they are gone.
"I guess you could say this place is full of interesting people now," she said. "But I thought it was full of a lot of interesting people before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dave Morffy, a recent arrival from California and an observer of the L-train culture, said, "I noticed right away that how cool you are depends on which stop you get off at in Brooklyn." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); WEB SITES (64%); RELIGION (51%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; TATTOOS 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBURG (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



73 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
EASTMAN CHEMICAL PREDICTS SLOWER QUARTERLY EARNINGS

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The Eastman Chemical Company has cut its profit expectations for the second quarter to 53 cents to 57 cents a share, more than 10 cents below a previous estimate. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected second-quarter earnings to be about 68 cents a share. "Most of our business has been hurt by the overall weak economy in the United States and the now slowing economy in Europe," the chairman and chief executive, Earnest W. Deavenport Jr., said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (83%); EXECUTIVES (50%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO 

TICKER: EMN (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%) SIC2819 OTHER INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



74 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Confidence Slides 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Business sentiment in Japan worsened in the second quarter, as companies hit by weakening demand for their products overseas and plunging profits continued to pare spending, a survey by the Bank of Japan showed. 
The survey indicated that confidence among executives at large manufacturers was minus-16 in the April-June quarter, down from minus-5 in the previous three months. The survey reflects worries that the slowdown in the United States and Europe may force consumers there to slow their purchases of Japanese products. It also shows concerns that weak stock prices are hurting business prospects at home, forcing some companies to cut jobs and investment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (85%); LAYOFFS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (72%) JAPAN; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



75 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Babylon: Rail Station Reopening Is Proposed 

BYLINE:  By Hope Reeves (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Officials of Babylon and Huntington have proposed easing traffic congestion along Route 110, which connects the towns, by reopening the Long Island Rail Road's Fairchild Station in Babylon, building a parking lot nearby and establishing shuttle bus service from that station and the one in Huntington. Traffic jams are "a major impediment to economic growth along this corridor," a Babylon councilman, Steven Bellone, said recently. Officials will seek state and federal funds.
 Hope Reeves (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (85%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (85%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (84%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO 

PERSON: REEVES, HOPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) BABYLON (NY); HUNTINGTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



76 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: Budget Surplus Shrinks 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 The state comptroller, Nancy Wyman, said yesterday that the state would end the 2001 fiscal year with a surplus of nearly $647 million, a drop of nearly $17 million from the estimate a month ago. The economic slowdown affected the state income tax, sales tax and corporation tax, she said. She said that stagnant growth in employment had reduced payroll withholding taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); SALES TAX (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (83%); TRENDS (82%); INCOME TAX (81%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: WYMAN, NANCY S (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



77 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Cheney, Back At Work, Says He's Feeling 'Pretty Good' 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney returned to work at the White House today, saying he felt "pretty good" two days after doctors implanted a sophisticated pacemaker and defibrillator in his chest. 
 This afternoon, Mr. Cheney fielded questions on energy policy, a patients' bill of rights and his health for about 45 minutes in three separate regional radio interviews that aides said were scheduled before the device was implanted on Saturday. 
 Asked on WWVA-AM, a news radio station in Wheeling, W.Va., how his heart felt, Mr. Cheney replied: "It seems to be working pretty good. I'm sitting here at my desk working away." 
Other than nursing a sore left shoulder from the procedure, Mr. Cheney told listeners of WHAM-AM in Rochester that he had "no complaints." Aides said he was not taking any painkillers or other medications. 
In both interviews, Mr. Cheney gave a spirited defense of the Bush administration's energy policy, and at one point dismissed recent polls showing public confidence in the administration's handling of environmental issues falling.
"We don't pay much attention to the polls," Mr. Cheney told WWVA. 
On one environmental issue, Mr. Cheney said in a radio interview with the Northwest Ag Information Network in Salem, Ore., that the endangered suckerfish should not be given priority over the needs of Klamath Basin farmers, who were having to do without irrigation water.
"The priorities, it seems to me, are reversed there," he said.
Mr. Cheney's aides were eager to portray the vice president's schedule as a "typical" day filled with briefings on economic and domestic policy, as well as meetings with his national security aides and legislative staff. 
The vice president, who has a history of heart disease, arrived by motorcade at 7:45 a.m., his usual time, and sat down for his daily intelligence and national security briefings with President Bush, who said Mr. Cheney looked well and was in good spirits. 
"The vice president is doing great," Mr. Bush told reporters after an unrelated meeting with social service groups. "He looks great. His spirits are high."
"He is such a good example for Americans who may share the same condition he has, and that is to listen to your body, to take precautionary measures, and to be active," the president added. "I'm not worried about him."
Mr. Cheney, 60, later joined Mr. Bush in an Oval Office meeting with Bret D. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City who last week won the Republican nomination for governor of New Jersey. 
After the radio interviews, Mr. Cheney met with national security aides and his legislative liaisons on Capitol Hill. Aides said the vice president lightened his day only once, when he decided to skip a dentist appointment. 
Mr. Cheney has tried to make his recuperation as brief as possible after a restful weekend to avoid any perception that his latest heart trouble might slow him down. 
Doctors implanted the pager-sized device near Mr. Cheney's left shoulder after concluding that his heart was susceptible to abnormal, rapid heartbeats. The device, a Medtronic GEM III DR, can act as a traditional pacemaker, speeding up a heart that is beating too slowly. It can also act as a miniature defibrillator, shocking the heart back to a normal rhythm if it suddenly beats too quickly and chaotically. A rapid heartbeat can be fatal. 
Juleanna Glover Weiss, Mr. Cheney's spokeswoman, said the vice president relaxed at home on Sunday before going to dinner at his daughter's house in McLean, Va. 
Even as some aides sought to build a business-as-usual aura around the vice president, other White House officials cautioned that Mr. Cheney faced a taxing schedule. 
Mr. Cheney leaves on Thursday for a four-day trip home to Wyoming, where he has told his staff he intends to go fly-fishing (while also trying to follow his doctors' advice to avoid vigorous upper-body exercise for the next several days). 
When he returns, Congress will begin considering energy, trade and spending bills that will demand Mr. Cheney's attention on Capitol Hill. 
And on July 16, he is scheduled to lead a town hall meeting near Pittsburgh with two Pennsylvania Republicans, Senator Rick Santorum and Representative Melissa A. Hart, to promote the White House's energy plan. 
Administration officials said they hope to have an energy bill on the House floor for a vote by the end of this month.
"July will be busy and I expect Dick Cheney will be in the thick of things," said one administration official who works closely with the vice president. "This will not be for the faint of heart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dick Cheney was back at work yesterday, talking about his new pacemaker in the Oval Office with President Bush. With the July Fourth holiday approaching, Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, greeted tourists yesterday in making a surprise visit to the Jefferson Memorial. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); IRRIGATION (65%); GOVERNORS (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (79%); WHEELING, WV, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



78 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: EFFORT TO RECAST IRAQ OIL SANCTIONS IS HALTED FOR NOW 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 2 

 BODY:
Facing a Russian veto in the Security Council, the United States and Britain today abandoned efforts for now to change the rules for permissible trade with Iraq.
 The plan would have expanded civilian trade while tightening controls on smuggling oil and prohibited weapons, depriving President Saddam Hussein of an excuse that it was the sanctions alone that were hurting the Iraqi people. 
 Russia, with strong commercial interests in Iraq and a long history of military and diplomatic cooperation, had introduced its own resolution, which reopened the issue of lifting the sanctions imposed in 1990 after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. A Russian veto would have killed the American and British proposal for the foreseeable future.
The United States and Britain decided to abandon the fight for now and to seek an extension of the current "oil for food" program for five months. A month's extension on the program's current mandate runs out at midnight on Tuesday. 
The decision not to force a showdown, after winning agreement for the plan from China and France and thereby isolating Russia among the five permanent Council members with vetoes, was a setback for the Bush administration, which had made a new policy on Iraq a high priority.
With a postponement of five months, Iraq would emerge with what it wants in the short term -- the status quo. That could bolster hard-liners in Washington who have always contended that diplomatic efforts were wasted on President Hussein and that more direct methods are needed to keep Iraq from posing a threat to other nations.
Ambassador James B. Cunningham, the American representative on the Council, said in an interview that the United States was in no way "shelving the policy."
Mr. Cunningham said the United States agreed to the five-month extension because it was the better of two choices: Washington could have risked a veto or decided instead to buy more time to get the Russians to join the consensus. He said there would be more high-level meetings with the Russians over the next few months and those opportunities would be used to press the case for the resolution.
"It strikes us as illogical for the Russians to take this position when it is so clear that there is a basis in the Council for an agreement -- an agreement that would help the Iraqi civilians," he said. He called the postponement of the new oil plan "a defeat for the Iraqi people."
American officials have said in recent weeks that they have been mystified by what the Russian motivations may really be and have often have been sent mixed signals about what Russia's real concerns are. Diplomats said China's decision to accept the outlines of the American and British plan was important because it indicated that the Russian position was difficult to understand and had virtually no support. 
Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Britain's ambassador, said after a brief Council meeting this morning that it was important that the resolution creating the new oil sales plan -- which the British introduced and took the lead in fighting for in the absence of a new permanent American ambassador from the Bush administration -- remain on the table. He described it as "broadly supported and very much alive." Forcing Russia's hand would have killed the plan with a veto.
Calling Russian opposition to the proposal "unjustifiable and negative," Sir Jeremy said that "preserving the validity of that resolution means, in the view of the United Kingdom and most members of the Council -- perhaps all members of the Council -- avoiding a crash over the next couple of days because that does damage to the draft resolution."
An end to sanctions is Iraq's basic goal, since sanctions have introduced United Nations supervision of Iraqi trade and, under the oil-for-food program, Iraqi profits, placing them in an escrow account under United Nations control. Iraqi smuggling, and illegal oil sales to neighbors that the United States tolerated to keep allies like Turkey and Jordan happy, are now giving the Iraqis $1 billion or more outside the system.
Contrary to Iraqi wishes, however, Russia does not argue for lifting sanctions immediately, but says the embargo should be suspended after Iraq allows arms inspectors, who have not been allowed to work in Iraq since late 1998, to return and resume monitoring. The United States and Britain have insisted that this is not an issue to be raised within the context of a new oil-for-food plan. 
In December 1999, a separate Security Council resolution laid out the steps Iraq must take not only to allow inspectors to work but also to meet certain crucial disarmament tasks, still to be determined. The Security Council has required Iraq to eliminate its weapons of mass destruction. 
Ambassador Sergey Lavrov of Russia turned that argument around today, saying it was the American-British proposal that had strayed from the essential purpose of selling oil to buy civilian goods and materials to rebuild Iraq's infrastructure. 
"We consider that this proposal is not just extending or improving the humanitarian program; it's about giving the program some new functions, and this requires a very thorough study," he said. He added that the Western proposal was "linked to the sanctions policy and the disarmament policy."
"Our government position has always been consistent, and we're in favor of renewing the program and improving the humanitarian operation," he said.
Iraq stopped exporting oil several weeks ago to protest the possible passage of the British and American plan, denying itself, and presumably the Iraqi civilian population, millions of dollars in income.
Finding a way to prevent Iraq from gaining propaganda advantage from the unquestioned deprivation most Iraqis -- though not Mr. Hussein's inner circle -- suffered from a decade of sanctions has always been a problem for the Security Council and its member governments. The United States said in introducing the new plan that it wanted to rob Iraq of an excuse for its own failure to spend money on the civilian population in need of medicines and a wide range of public goods and services.
Shortly after the 1991 American-led war to free Kuwait, a United Nations team visiting Iraq warned that there was a catastrophe in the making, as the embargo cut off most trade links with the outside world. In August of that year, Iraq was first offered an oil-for-food program, but turned it down, demanding an end to sanctions instead. Not until 1995 did Iraq agree to an oil sales program supervised by the United Nations. It began functioning late in 1996, and was broadened three years later to remove the limit on oil sales. 
Since 1996, most recently aided by high oil prices, Iraq has exported over $43 billion in oil. The United Nations deducts part of the profits to compensate victims of the Iraqi war against Kuwait and a share for the Kurds in northern Iraq who had suffered intense persecution, including poison gas attacks, by the government in Baghdad. Iraq is now free to spend the rest of the money on a wide range of imports, and nearly $25 billion in goods have been ordered. The new British-American plan would have removed remaining restrictions on civilian trade.
A sticking point, however, was a list the United States wanted to annex to the Council resolution, which would enumerate certain weapons banned under existing international agreements and some other ostensibly civilian goods that could have military purposes. The list of so-called "dual use" items was not prohibitive; it called only for a right to review purchases of those goods.
Last week, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell was able to persuade the French and Chinese to drop their objections after the list was whittled down. What remained to block passage of the resolution, in addition to persistent Russian opposition, was the question of how to compensate Iraq's neighbors -- Jordan, Syria and Turkey -- for loss of oil supplies Iraq had been selling outside the system at reduced prices.
That illegal trade, to which the Security Council at first turned a blind eye, became more of a concern as oil prices rose and the Iraqis were accumulating money that could have gone into illegal arms.
Iraq threatened to cut off all oil to its neighbors if they joined the United Nations-supervised system. Jordan, in particular, said its economy would be devastated by such a move. 
Then a month ago, Iraq stopped all exports of oil anywhere to protest the Security Council's move toward revamping the oil-for-food program and its decision to put off a vote from June 3 to July 3. Iraq has lost $1.3 billion it could have spent on consumer goods and services.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ambassador Sergey Lavrov wields Russia's veto power. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FOOD; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (87%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; FRANCE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



79 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2049 words

HEADLINE: Failure to Acquire Honeywell Is Sour Finish for G.E. Chief 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
John F. Welch Jr. was supposed to be retired from General Electric by now, his legacy as corporate America's most-admired manager firmly intact.
 But his final act as chairman of G.E., to bid for the industrial conglomerate Honeywell International and postpone his retirement, is turning out to be a case study in miscalculations. 
 Despite weeks of last-ditch maneuvers, the $45 billion deal that was going to cap Mr. Welch's career is now dead. Today, European regulators are planning to vote against the proposal, the first time an American deal has been blocked solely by Europeans. 
Mr. Welch, known for sizing up businesses in a heartbeat, misread the situation early on. He failed to anticipate Europeans' anticompetitive concerns, saying regulators would find "the cleanest deal you've ever seen." And he was blindsided by the economy's downturn, its damaging effect on Honeywell's business and that company's desperation to complete the deal. 
"I could've gone home early and been a great hero," Mr. Welch said when he announced the deal in October in NBC's Studio 8-H, where "Saturday Night Live" is produced. (G.E. owns NBC.) "I'm the one that's putting my neck on the line."
Mr. Welch's decisiveness, which served him so well in his 20 years running G.E. and drove up the company's market value by $474 billion, led him to put the deal together in just a few days without sounding out regulators. And when they balked, he refused to make enough concessions to satisfy them.
Nonetheless, many investors suggest that Mr. Welch's final decision to walk away rather than risk harming shareholders may have actually solidified his reputation as a great leader. "Maybe there will always be the footnote, but at least he's not selling the ship for his own ego," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager of the Dreyfus Corporation, whose funds hold millions of G.E. shares.
When Mr. Welch became the youngest chief executive in G.E.'s history in 1981, he combined candor with a demanding leadership style, deciding to focus on areas where G.E. could be No. 1 or 2 in a market. For any other unit, he would say fix it, sell it or close it. The harsh approach earned him the name Neutron Jack for someone who kills off people but leaves the physical assets intact.
His winning ways earned his selection as America's most-admired businessman, but crossing cultural divides was never his strength. Mr. Welch, 65, who stretched his retirement date from April to the end of the year to complete the merger, declined to be interviewed for this article.
But in retrospect, Mr. Welch's first mistake on the Honeywell deal was apparent the day he announced it. "We haven't touched every base," he said when asked whether G.E. and Honeywell had contacted regulators in the United States and Europe, as is often the case on big transactions.
Indeed, the deal was negotiated in only 72 hours by Mr. Welch, who rushed to break up a planned merger between Honeywell and United Technologies, an old-style conglomerate that makes Pratt & Whitney aircraft engines and Otis Elevators. Honeywell -- formed by a merger of Honeywell and Allied Signal -- produces aerospace systems, power and transportation products, specialty chemicals, home security systems and building climate controls, as in Honeywell thermostats. It was considered a good complement to General Electric's disparate portfolio, including aircraft engines and the NBC network television, though regulators were expected to scrutinize the deal and ask for certain divestitures.
It was more than two months before Mr. Welch realized that the deal could face serious obstacles in Europe, executives close to him said. American regulators had given an early indication the deal would be approved, though they dragged their feet because of the change in administration. Meanwhile, the European Commission's competition regulator, Mario Monti, privately made noise about the deal being anticompetitive because of G.E.'s ability to bundle products and services, effectively directing business to itself. 
By late February, after rivals like United Technologies, Rockwell International and Rolls-Royce complained to the commission about the deal, Mr. Monti announced his task force would expand its investigation, meaning four more months before the deal could be completed, if at all.
In early May, G.E. agreed to sell Honeywell's helicopter-engine business and take other steps to win regulatory approval in the United States. To Mr. Welch and his top advisers, that approval should have solved the European problem.
"At the time, we thought it would be impossible that the Europeans would try to block a U.S.-U.S. deal that had been given the go-ahead by Washington," said an executive close to G.E. who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "The conventional wisdom was that the political pressure would be too great."
Some of Mr. Welch's lawyers in Brussels that had worked with Mr. Monti knew better. Mr. Monti, a soft-spoken, silver-haired Italian economist, has not been one to bend under political pressure. Even G.E. executives acknowledge that Mr. Monti stuck to his interpretation of the law, inspired by principles, not by politics.
And by June, it was clear to many inside G.E. and Honeywell that Mr. Monti would require the combined company to make major concessions to win his approval.
While United States regulators are most concerned with a proposed deal's impact on consumers, European regulators place just as much emphasis on the effect on the commercial market. The European Commission, which is the executive arm of the 15-nation European Union, generally has jurisdiction over any business with more than $225 million in annual revenue in Europe and has shown considerable strength. In 1997, it nearly blocked Boeing's acquisition of Lockheed Martin, despite pressure from the United States, and forced the companies to make significant concessions at the last minute to win European approval. And the proposed merger of Worldcom and Sprint was rejected by the Europeans even before Washington rejected it.
So in mid-June, Mr. Welch took the corporate jet to Brussels to take a last stab at convincing Mr. Monti the deal would not stifle competition. He offered to divest $2.2 billion worth of annual sales from Honeywell's avionics business and to make accounting and other management changes to its aviation financing business, GE Capital Aviation Services, or Gecas.
But it was not enough.
Mr. Monti wanted G.E. to sell 19.9 percent of the aviation financing business to the public. The commission believed that the unit, which owns and leases 950 aircraft, could create incentives for aircraft makers to also buy G.E. engines and other aviation products, giving the company an unfair edge over competitors like Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
Mr. Welch refused to sell part of that business. If a stake was sold to the public, rivals like Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney could buy into the business.
For Mr. Monti, that was exactly the point. He believed that competitors could effectively keep the G.E. unit from unfairly cutting out competitors and owning the market.
After several days of intense negotiations, Mr. Welch submitted his proposal -- without the concessions sought by Mr. Monti -- and flew home knowing the deal would not be approved.
Behind the scenes, friction between Mr. Welch and Honeywell's chief executive, Michael R. Bonsignore, was growing. Privately, Mr. Welch and his successor, Jeffrey Immelt, suggested killing the deal and withdrawing the proposal to the commission, executives close to the company said. Executives close to G.E. said that as Mr. Immelt's role grew -- he was named chief executive in late November -- he became more averse to making additional concessions.
But Mr. Bonsignore pressed them to submit the proposal, citing G.E.'s requirement to make its "best efforts" under the merger agreement.
The next day, Mr. Welch publicly said the deal was dead. "Jeff Immelt and I wanted to complete the transaction, but we have always said there is a point at which we wouldn't do the deal," he said. "The commission's extraordinary demands are far beyond that point."
Honeywell's stock went into a tailspin, dropping more than 10 percent from the previous day.
Honeywell and its lawyers began assembling several different plans to try to resuscitate the deal. For Honeywell, the deal's collapse would mean being back on the market and being scrutinized by investors. Executives close to the company say its earnings have fallen significantly in the second quarter, suggesting the stock price could fall further and make it a weakened takeover target.
An executive close to G.E. suggested that Honeywell's recent poor financial performance was another reason Mr. Welch was unwilling to make such divestitures. Mr. Welch was also being pressed by Mr. Immelt, who after all would have to run the combined company.
Last Monday, Mr. Welch met Mr. Bonsignore in New York at G.E.'s offices in Rockefeller Center with a team of executives and lawyers. Mr. Welch and Mr. Bonsignore discussed modifying their proposal to try to meet Mr. Monti's demands. They knew it was a long shot, the executives said, but G.E. would offer to sell 19.9 percent of Gecas to a financial company, not a competitor. At the very least, G.E. would be able to say it made its best effort, the executives said.
G.E.'s revised offer, however, came with strings attached. The outside investor -- the financial company -- would get preferred stock that could not be transferred without the approval of G.E. While the investor would get a seat on the unit's board, it was unclear how much voting power the member would have.
On Thursday afternoon, Mr. Monti phoned Mr. Welch and Mr. Bonsignore, rejecting the plan as keeping the outside investor effectively in lockstep with G.E.
The next day, Mr. Bonsignore dropped a bombshell that he had hinted at earlier in the week during his meeting with Mr. Welch: Honeywell would be willing to take $1.8 billion less from G.E. if Mr. Welch would concede to Mr. Monti's recommendations.
Mr. Bonsignore distributed the letter to the press within minutes of sending it to Mr. Welch. "It was incredible," one G.E. executive said. "Jack hadn't even seen the letter first. It was a total desperation move."
Mr. Welch convened his board, the executives said. That afternoon, Mr. Welch sent his own letter, also distributed publicly, rejecting the Honeywell proposition. Perhaps partly for legal reasons as well as public relations, his letter seemed quite friendly. "I am very grateful for all your efforts," Mr. Welch wrote, signing it, "Best, Jack."
Last weekend, both companies held a marathon of conference calls to consider withdrawing their proposal before the commission formally blocks it. Though G.E. wanted to avoid a formal decision that might create a precedent affecting future deals, Honeywell did not give its consent.
Executives close to Honeywell are weighing whether to file a lawsuit against G.E. for breeching its agreement on grounds that it did not make its "best efforts" to complete the deal. 
Honeywell's board is scheduled to meet Tuesday, and Mr. Bonsignore, who was on his way out under G.E.'s leadership, may find himself on the way out anyway, without a deal, according to stock analysts.
For Mr. Welch, the story is hardly over. He will be leaving G.E. soon, though the company has not yet announced when, and plans a consulting career. He has also sold the rights to his soon-to-be-published memoir for more than $7 million.
His reputation of creating value for shareholders and making tough business decisions remains unbesmirched. But when the dust settles, Mr. Welch may find the collapsed deal more than just a footnote. Will there be lasting effects on G.E.'s ability to expand in Europe? And will G.E.'s astounding financial performance continue after he retires?
When Mr. Immelt told Le Monde, the French newspaper, that there was zero chance of the deal going through two weeks ago, he seemingly distanced himself from Mr. Welch, whom he called "a great teacher."
"The most important thing that Jack can do now so I can really take the reins is to leave," he said. "I could always call him and ask him for advice. But, physically, the business can only have one leader."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the effect of the collapse of the merger between General Electric and Honeywell International on the reputation of G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., misstated the title of his successor, Jeffrey R. Immelt. He is president and chairman-elect, not chief executive.
The article also misidentified the company acquired by the Boeing Company in 1997 in a deal nearly blocked by the European Commission. It was the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, not the Lockheed Martin Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Welch Jr. failed to anticipate Europe's anticompetitive concerns in the Honeywell deal. If, as expected, the plan is voted down today, it will be the first time an American deal has been blocked by Europeans. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MERGERS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (66%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) HONEYWELL INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC3822 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (92%); JOHN K WELCH (79%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; WELCH, JOHN F JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



80 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: BUSH SCALES BACK OIL-DRILLING PLAN IN GULF OF MEXICO 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2 

 BODY:
The Bush administration sharply scaled back its plans today to drill for oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico, trying to defuse an issue that has pitted President Bush against his brother Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida.
 Gale A. Norton, the secretary of the interior, said the administration would seek to let oil companies drill on about 1.5 million acres in the gulf, a quarter of the roughly 6 million acres that the Clinton administration first proposed opening for leasing in 1997. 
 The compromise plan retreats from Mr. Bush's national energy strategy, released in May, which argued that urgent steps were needed to find more domestic energy sources, including in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. It hands a clear victory to Governor Bush, who along with Florida's influential Congressional delegation opposed any drilling that might threaten the state's beaches. 
Administration officials acknowledged that the decision reflected the president's efforts to find a way out of a political quandary that involved family ties, splits in the Republican Party and attacks by environmentalists on Mr. Bush's energy policies.
The officials argued that the new lease area still included a rectangular chunk of the original drilling site, off the southeastern tip of Alabama, that contains the richest potential reserves of oil and natural gas. The reduced scale might also help the administration overcome heated Congressional opposition to any drilling in the area, they said.
But the compromise was hit from both sides. Environmentalists and some lawmakers said it could still open the door to drilling off Florida, while some Republicans and industry groups accused the president of caving in to political opposition.
The administration's support for drilling in the so-called 181 area was an open wound for Governor Bush, who is expected to face a close re-election fight in 2002 and who had so far gained little from his brother's presidency. Late last month, Florida Republicans openly criticized President Bush as ignoring them when he visited the state, where he promoted his environmental credentials by appearing with Democrats at the Everglades National Park.
"This goes a long way to washing away the bitterness from that visit and solving a dilemma for his brother," said Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida. "It's a win-win compromise because it allows some drilling but respects those who were adamantly opposed."
Jeb Bush applauded the revised drilling plan. Speaking from his parents' home in Kennebunkport, Me., he called the new proposal a victory for "Florida's fight to protect our coastline."
"Any lease sales that do occur in the 181 area will occur off the coast of Alabama, not Florida," he said. "Floridians have spoken loud and clear, and their voices have been heard by President Bush."
The governor said that he talked to his brother about the issue on Thursday and had stayed in close contact with other administration officials since then. Ms. Norton said she coordinated the policy change with Governor Bush and other parties from the region.
Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, where the energy industry is strong and the tourism business less significant, have tended to be far more supportive of drilling in the eastern gulf. The administration's move to back off its support for drilling in the zone proposed by the Clinton administration drew sharp responses from both Democrats and Republicans in those states.
"By caving into Nimbyism in Florida, the Bush administration has decimated its own energy plan," said Representative David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana. "I think this really just shuts down the opportunity to do anything productive to reduce our dependence on foreign oil."
If Congress does not block the plan, the administration intends to begin leasing offshore blocks to development in December. They would be the first leases in the Gulf of Mexico in more than a decade.
Ms. Norton said her department estimated that the revised area, part of the Outer Continental Shelf, contains 1.25 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, which she said was enough to serve one million American families for 15 years. She put oil reserves in the area at 185 million barrels, enough to power the cars of one million families for nearly six years.
"Development of resources in the O.C.S. is an important part of our national energy strategy," she said. "My decision today represents a very reasonable compromise."
The sale area as proposed by the Clinton administration came as close as 17 miles to Pensacola in Florida's Panhandle. The revised site is 100 miles from Pensacola and also farther from other big coastal cities in Florida, including Tampa and Panama City. It is only 64 miles from Venice, La.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said President Bush listened to the people of Florida and worked with governors of states adjoining the Gulf of Mexico to "come out with a plan that is environmentally sensitive and balanced."
Administration officials said that the reduced drilling area preserved the most promising section of the original site. The reduced site, though only one-fourth the acreage, has about 44 percent of the oil deposits and 47 percent of the natural gas deposits that the larger site had, an official said.
Industry groups, which have estimated much more significant oil and gas reserves in the gulf, said the loss was far greater. The industry especially coveted the "stovepipe" section of the Clinton administration's proposed drilling area that came closest to Florida's Panhandle. The area, now ruled off limits, was expected to contain heavy natural gas deposits in relatively shallow water.
Chevron, BP, Exxon Mobil, ARCO and Shell Oil are among the corporations seeking to drill in the eastern gulf. The companies promoted drilling in the area as environmentally safe and economically sound.
While the revised plan was praised by some Florida environmentalists, most national environmental groups are opposed to any new drilling in the gulf and were quick to criticize the administration's compromise plan.
They argued that offshore drilling poses the threat of oil spills. Drilling also pollutes the water, they said, while pipelines needed to transport oil and gas create hazards when crossing coastal wetlands.
The Natural Resources Defense Council said that most recoverable oil and gas reserves were in the central and western parts of the gulf, which are already open to drilling.
Even the new plan may face obstacles in Congress. The House voted 247 to 164 last month to bar exploration in the eastern gulf until April, reflecting the Florida delegation's power.
Though some House Republicans said that the plan sapped the momentum of efforts to impose a moratorium on new drilling, Democrats said there were still risks, including other offshore drilling sites, that posed an imminent threat to Florida's coast.
"It is the proverbial camel's nose under the tent -- to allow oil companies into the rest of the Gulf of Mexico," Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton wants drilling on 1.5 million acres. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of Gulf of Mexico highlighting area proposed in 1997 for leasing and area proposed today for leasing. (Source: U.S. Department of the Interior)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXPLORATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); BEACHES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; ENVIRONMENT; WATER POLLUTION; GAS (FUEL); OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; BEACHES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, JEB (GOV); NORTON, GALE (SEC); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (97%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) GULF OF MEXICO; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



81 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S. and Britain Drop Effort To Alter Iraq Trade Rules
The United States and Britain, facing a Russian veto in the Security Council, abandoned efforts for now to change the rules for trade with Iraq. The plan would have expanded civilian trade while tightening controls on oil and prohibited weapons. A1

Violence Strains Mideast Truce
Palestinians killed an Israeli motorist and set off car bombs in retaliation for Israel's killing of three West Bank militants on Sunday. American intelligence agents held a late-night meeting with Palestinian and Israeli security officials in an effort to keep the violence from worsening. A8

Milosevic to Be Own Counsel
Former President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia indicated that he would refuse legal counsel and face his accusers alone in The Hague today when he is called to plead guilty or not guilty to charges of crimes against humanity in Kosovo. A3

Mexican President Marries
President Vicente Fox married his spokeswoman, Martha Sahagun, in a civil service at the presidential mansion that was repeatedly shown on national television. The surprise wedding confirmed months of speculation in predominantly Roman Catholic Mexico about the personal relationship between the two, both Catholics who had been divorced. A3

Ulster Panel Faults I.R.A.
The international commission responsible for disarming Northern Ireland's paramilitary groups issued a report saying the Irish Republican Army had taken no steps to dismantle its arsenal and would not indicate how it planned to do so. A8

China Critic Flees to U.S.
A maverick Chinese economist, He Qinglian, 44, who is an outspoken critic of government corruption, has fled to the United States, fearing that she was about to be arrested in a spreading crackdown on dissidents and scholars with ties to the West. A5

No Praying Without a Permit
The leader of an American-based Sufi sect was arrested in Turkey last week on charges of praying in a group without a permit and wearing banned religious dress in public. A naturalized American, Aydogan Fuat, who is also known as Sheik Abdul Kerim Fuat, has been held without bail pending a hearing today. A4

World Briefing A9

NATIONAL A10-14

Bush Scales Back Plans To Drill in Gulf of Mexico
The Bush administration sharply scaled back plans to drill for oil and natural gas in the gulf, in an effort to defuse an issue that has pitted President Bush against his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton said the administration would seek to let oil companies drill on about 1.5 million acres in the gulf, down from the 6 million acres or so that the Clinton administration proposed in 1997. A1

Cheney Goes Back to Work
Vice President Dick Cheney returned to work at the White House, saying he felt "pretty good" two days after doctors implanted an advanced pacemaker and defibrillator in his chest. A13

Prodigious Fund-Raising
House Democrats, capitalizing on voter anger over the disputed presidential election, raised $18 million in the first six months of 2001, a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee record for a non-election year. A14

Rebuttal of Price Fixing
Duke Energy, a big California electricity generator, and state officials rebutted charges by three former Duke employees that the company had manipulated output to drive up prices, saying the shifts had been ordered by a state-run agency. A10

New Editor for Boston Globe
Martin Baron, executive editor of The Miami Herald, will take over as top editor of The Boston Globe next month, succeeding Matthew V. Storin, who is retiring after leading The Globe, New England's largest newspaper, for eight years. A12

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Bid to Block Stem Cell Funds
House Republican leaders urged the president to ban the spending of federal money on biomedical research that uses cells derived from human embryos. The research, they said, relies on "an industry of death." A1

Finding Fault in Fatal Study
The F.D.A. said Johns Hopkins University researchers who conducted an asthma experiment that led to a healthy volunteer's death last month had not sought or received the agency's approval to use an unlicensed drug involved in the experiment. A12

Health & Fitness F5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Suit Is Allowed Challenging Bar to Gay Student Housing
The state's highest court reinstated a lawsuit challenging Yeshiva University's policy of excluding same-sex couples from university housing, finding that the case falls within the scope of New York City's human rights law. Legal experts said the ruling opened a new avenue for discrimination lawsuits in the city. B1

A Question of Life or Death
The prosecution and the defense delivered final arguments in a Manhattan federal courtroom to jurors who will decide whether Khalfan Khamis Mohamed, 27, should be put to death for his role in the bombing of the American Embassy in Tanzania in 1999, which killed 11 people. B1

U.S. Irked by City Towing Plan
The Giuliani administration drew criticism from the State Department when it announced that on Aug. 1 it would begin towing the cars of some diplomats who flout city parking laws and ignore the tickets they are issued. New York is owed $21.3 million on more than 2,000 outstanding tickets issued to vehicles registered to diplomats between 1997 and 2000. B3

The City's D.U.I. Fleet
Mayor Giuliani and Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik said the city had seized more than 4,000 vehicles from people accused of drunken driving since February 1999. They unveiled a new public awareness campaign intended to remind people that they will forfeit their cars if they are caught driving while intoxicated. B2

ARTS E1-10

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES A15

SPORTS D1-8

Sampras Is Dethroned
Roger Federer, 19, halted Pete Sampras's quest for an eighth Wimbledon title by winning their Round of 16 match, 7-6 (7), 5-7, 6-4, 6-7 (7), 7-5. D1

Jennifer Capriati beat Sandrine Testud, 6-1, 6-2, and Serena Williams beat Magdalena Maleeva, 6-2, 6-1, to make their way into the quarterfinals. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Stock Analyst Disclosure
The National Association of Securities Dealers proposed a rule that would require equity analysts at brokerage firms to clearly and prominently inform investors of potential conflicts of interest that might influence stock recommendations. C1

Airlines Seeking New Options
United Airlines and US Airways confirmed that they were discussing ending their merger agreement, and employees at US Airways were told that the proposed combination was "no longer an option." C1

Oil Cartel to Meet
OPEC meets in Vienna today and most analysts expect the cartel to hold production levels steady, at 24.2 million barrels a day, satisfied with a supply-demand equilibrium that has kept prices around $25 a barrel. C1

Sara Lee Buying Bread Maker
Sara Lee said it would acquire Earthgrains, the second-largest maker of fresh bread, for $1.87 billion. Earthgrains brands are big in the South and the Midwest but are virtually unknown elsewhere. C1

Chip Sales Sag
Worldwide semiconductor sales fell 7.3 percent in May from April, as manufacturers continued to struggle with the shrinking market for chips, a trade association reported. C6

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Mr. Milosevic faces the court; fulfilling the Brady Act's promise; new peril for campaign reform.
Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VETO (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); BAIL (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); LAWYERS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); MEXICO (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SERBIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



82 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Talks: U.S. Raises the Bar 

 BODY:
 Though the Bush administration has agreed to reopen talks with North Korea, it has set demands far broader than those pressed by President Bill Clinton, raising the prospect of protracted negotiations while Pyongyang continues to sell missiles around the world. 
 Bush aides concede that the chances of Pyongyang agreeing to all its demands are low, but hope that economic pressures will lead North Korea to seek a far-reaching accommodation with the West. Meanwhile, reacting to the changed signals from Washington, North Korea has also publicly staked out a tougher stance.
Article, Page A9. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



83 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: DuPont Warns of Earnings Shortfall 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del. July 2 

 BODY:
DuPont warned today that its second-quarter earnings would fall short of estimates, joining a list of chemical companies that have cautioned that profits would be hurt by a slowing economy.
 Before one-time items, DuPont said earnings would be 35 to 45 cents a share, compared with the 90 cents a share it earned in the period a year earlier. 
 On average, analysts had been forecasting 53 cents a share, according to Thomson Financial /First Call.
Charles Holliday Jr., DuPont's chairman and chief executive, cited the global economic slowdown. "Demand is correspondingly weak across all markets, and our customers have continued to draw down existing inventories or delay purchasing until conditions improve," Mr. Holliday said, noting the company has already taken steps to cut costs through layoffs and lower capital expenditures. 
On Friday, the Dow Chemical Company lowered its earnings for the second quarter. Rhodia S.A. of France and BASF A.G. and Bayer A.G. of Germany have also cautioned investors that their profits would not meet expectations
The announcement was made after the markets closed. DuPont shares fell 12 cents, to $48.12. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); EXECUTIVES (54%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); BAYER AG (84%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (84%); BASF SE (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); RHODIA SA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO 

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); BAYN (FRA) (84%); BAY (MCE) (84%); BAY (BIT) (84%); DOW (SWX) (84%); DOW (NYSE) (84%); DOW (LSE) (84%); 4850 (TSE) (84%); BFA (LSE) (84%); BASF (BIT) (84%); BAS (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (84%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (84%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%)

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



84 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Scales Back Plans To Drill in Gulf of Mexico
The Bush administration sharply scaled back its plans to drill for oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico, attempting to defuse an issue that has pitted President Bush against his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida.
 The secretary of the interior said that the administration would seek to allow oil companies to drill on about 1.5 million acres in the Gulf, down from about the 6 million acres that the Clinton administration proposed opening for leasing in 1997. Page A1. 

A Rare Miscalculation for Welch
John F. Welch Jr. was supposed to be retired from General Electric by now, his legacy as corporate America's most-admired manager firmly intact. But his final act as chairman of G.E., to bid $45 billion for the industrial conglomerate Honeywell International and postpone his retirement, is turning out to be a case study in miscalculations. A1.

Coke May Be Rethinking Venture
Coca-Cola is rethinking the wisdom of handing over some of its most promising brands to a joint venture with Procter & Gamble that may offer little in return, an analyst said after conferring with company executives. C2.

Sales of Computer Chips Decline
Worldwide semiconductor sales fell 7.3 percent in May from April as chip makers struggled with a shrinking market. C6.

Competing Views on Tobacco Ruling
A Supreme Court ruling that overturned efforts by Massachusetts to limit tobacco ads is being hailed by the trade associations that represent agencies and major marketers. Others, however, wonder whether the ruling's implications are as far-reaching as they are being portrayed. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

Blue Chips Rise as Nasdaq Falls
Wall Street began its third quarter on a mostly positive note. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 91.32 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,593.72, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.29 points, or 1 percent, to 1,236.71. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.54 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,148.72. C9.

Manufacturing Index Rose in June
The National Association of Purchasing Management's manufacturing index increased to 44.7 last month from 42.1 in May. The reading was the highest since November. In separate reports, spending by consumers rose 0.5 percent in May while incomes grew 0.2 percent. And construction spending rose 0.3 percent in May, to $881.6 billion at an annual rate. C4.

Fiat in Hostile Bid for Italian Utility
Fiat and its principal shareholder, the Agnelli family of Italy, joined with Electricite de France, the French national utility, in a hostile bid for control of Italy's second-largest utility, Montedison. World Business, Section W.

Decision Delayed on Loan to Turkey
The International Monetary Fund delayed a decision on whether to make a $1.5 billion emergency loan to Turkey. C8.

Actors Optimistic About Talks
On their second day without a contract, Hollywood actors remained optimistic that they could reach a deal with producers to keep TV shows and movies in production. C8.

U.S. Markets to Close Early
Stock markets in the United States will close at 1 p.m. today and the bond market will close at 2 p.m. in advance of the Fourth of July holiday. United States financial markets will be closed tomorrow; foreign markets will be open.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,593.72 up 91.32Nasdaq composite -- 2,148.72 down 13.5410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.32% down 0.08The euro -- $0.8465 down 0.0028The dollar -- 124.34 yen down 0.42 Graph: "TODAY" shows factory orders from November 2000-April 2001. May figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.5% Graph tracks construction spending from December 2000-March 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (56%); HON (NYSE) (56%); HON (LSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); EDF (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (51%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JACK WELCH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



85 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Toughens Terms for North Korea Talks 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

 BODY:
Though the Bush administration has now agreed to reopen talks with North Korea, it has set demands far broader than those pressed by President Bill Clinton, raising the prospect of protracted negotiations while Pyongyang continues to sell missiles around the world.
 Just six months ago, American and North Korean diplomats appeared to be closing in on a deal to ban the development, production and sale of North Korean missiles. But now, reacting to the changed signals from Washington, North Korea has also publicly staked out a tough stance. 
 The two sides have yet to set a date for high-level talks. And Bush administration aides have told the South Koreans that the chances of Pyongyang's agreeing to all of its demands are low. 
Some senior Bush administration officials hope that economic pressures will lead North Korea to seek a far-reaching accommodation with the West. But some experts worry that unless both sides indicate a willingness to compromise, the result may be deadlock while North Korea exports medium-range or even long-range missiles. In the face of a prolonged stalemate, they say, North Korea might also threaten to resume testing long-range missiles, thereby developing the means to strike the United States.
The basic position of the Bush administration, worked out after an intensive review, is that an accord that focuses on missiles is no longer sufficient. Only a comprehensive program to limit North Korea's military potential, administration officials say, can serve as a foundation for improved relations with the West. So North Korea must make simultaneous concessions on nuclear issues and conventional arms, and any missile agreement must be subject to extensive verification.
"We need to see some progress in all areas," a senior administration official said. "We are prepared to wait. We don't feel any urgency to provide goodies to them in response to their rhetoric or threats."
But while the administration is demanding more from North Korea, it has spoken in only general terms about what economic and political benefits it is prepared to give in return. 
North Korea, for its part, is now insisting on millions of dollars in aid to ease a chronic electricity shortage and has put pressure on Washington by freezing its relationship with South Korea. And it has shown no sign of stopping its missile sales. 
Continued sales by North Korea would be a worrisome development for the United States. The administration has cited the missile threat from "rogue states" in trying to build international support for an antimissile defense.
"It makes sense for the administration to try to get progress on all of the issues they have identified: missile, nuclear and conventional," said Gary Samore, a senior fellow at the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies who was a top aide for proliferation issues on President Clinton's National Security Council.
"But that is going to be difficult to achieve, especially in the absence of clear inducements," Mr. Samore said. "If a comprehensive package is not possible, the administration should look at a stand-alone deal on missile exports because the North Koreans are actively selling missiles around the world, especially to the Middle East."
With a million-man army, nuclear expertise and missile factories, North Korea has long been a major worry for the United States. Acting at the advice of former Defense Secretary William J. Perry, the Clinton administration stressed the importance of focusing on North Korea's nuclear and missile programs.
The reasoning was that those programs created new dangers for the United States, and that Washington had long experience in deterring North Korea's conventional military threat.
In 1994, the Clinton administration and North Korea worked out an "agreed framework," in which Pyongyang agreed to freeze its plutonium production program and eventually to dismantle it. In return, the United States agreed to replace North Korea's graphite-moderated reactors with two light-water reactors, which are less useful in making bomb-grade material.
Under that understanding, North Korea also agreed to allow the International Atomic Energy Agency to inspect several suspected nuclear waste sites and place any undeclared plutonium stockpiles under international safeguards.
Those steps are deemed necessary because the West suspects that North Korea has separated more plutonium than it has acknowledged -- perhaps enough for one or two bombs' worth in all. Under the agreement, North Korea is required to cooperate with the energy agency once a "significant portion" of the light-water reactors is completed.
Having frozen Pyongyang's nuclear program, the Clinton administration turned its attention to North Korea's missile program. In 1999, North Korea agreed to suspend tests of long-range missiles like the Taepo Dong-1 missile that it test-fired in August 1998. Pyongyang has extended that moratorium through 2003.
In the final year of his presidency, Mr. Clinton sought to negotiate a broader accord that would end North Korea's production of medium- and long-range missiles, as well as the export of missile technology.
To compensate the North Koreans, the Clinton administration offered a presidential trip to Pyongyang, which would signify a new political relationship between the two countries, as well as hundreds of millions of dollars in annual food aid and other assistance. Mr. Clinton also agreed to a North Korean proposal to provide two or three free launches of North Korean civilian satellites annually. But time ran out before the deal could be nailed down.
The Bush administration initially refused to continue the talks with North Korea, saying it needed to conduct a review. That policy distressed President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, who had initiated a "sunshine policy" aimed at ending the hostility on the Korean peninsula and who has been hoping for a second summit meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il. 
After completing its assessment in early June, the Bush administration decided to re-engage with North Korea. Many commentators concluded that pressure from South Korea and anxious European allies, as well as coaxing from Mr. Bush's father, had led the new administration to temper its hard-line instincts and continue engaging Pyongyang.
"There is agreement on the necessity to engage with North Korea in a constructive way, and there is agreement not to try to bury North Korea," a senior administration official said. "We support the South Korean sunshine policy."
But the re-engagement came with important differences.
One was the broadened agenda. The Bush administration wants North Korea to start cooperating now with the atomic energy agency to resolve discrepancies over its past plutonium production. Former Clinton administration aides say it would be good for North Korea to do this because it would fulfill the nuclear deal Washington made with Pyongyang and pave the way for the light-water reactors to be completed without further long delays.
But Clinton aides also note that North Korea is not legally obliged to do that until the main nonnuclear components of the light-water reactors are delivered, which is not expected until 2005, according to the current schedule. And Pyongyang may balk on early cooperation with the energy agency to keep the West guessing about its nuclear potential and maintain leverage on the United States to keep its bargain.
The Bush administration also wants North Korea to ease the threat that its huge conventional military forces along the border pose to South Korea. The administration has yet to define what steps it has in mind, but they are expected to include modest confidence-building measures, like giving notice of military exercises.
Even on the missile issue, the administration seems to be driving a harder bargain than Clinton officials did. The verification measures Bush officials have devised call for "challenge inspections" in which American officials would have access to a range of sites in North Korea at short notice.
Reflecting deep-seated suspicion of North Korea's autocratic government, administration officials say such rigorous verification is needed to guard against cheating. But the administration's verification package goes well beyond what most Clinton aides believed was needed or obtainable, given Pyongyang's wariness of outsiders.
While stiffening demands, the Bush administration does not appear to have increased the benefits it is prepared to provide North Korea; it may even be offering less. The administration has suggested that it is prepared to take "political steps," a phrase that is generally taken to mean normalizing relations, organizing assistance by international financial institutions like the Asian Development Bank, and providing some aid.
But wary of the perception that it is willing to pay North Korea to restrain its military potential, the administration has been vague about how much it is prepared to do and noncommittal about the satellite launches offered by the Clinton administration.
A senior Bush administration official said the Clinton administration had been too generous in trying to secure a missile accord.
"I would say that we are definitely not willing to do that much for that little," the official said. "We are certainly not going to do a presidential trip. We think they were a little overeager."
Some issues remain unsettled in the Bush administration and could re-emerge if the negotiations make headway, some American officials say, like how much progress to demand in the nuclear and conventional areas if a missile deal appears to be at hand and how much aid to give North Korea. 
"There are no preconditions or anything we can't talk about," a senior official said, referring to talks with Pyongyang. 
But some experts see a tough road ahead.
"The Bush administration has not picked up the ball where Clinton dropped it," said Lee Sigal, the author of a book on negotiating with North Korea. "It has moved the goal posts." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (64%); POWER FAILURES (64%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001 



86 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Workplace; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: A Local Institution Makes His Rounds 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA R. OLSEN 

 BODY:
They are everywhere, it seems, those brown United Parcel Service trucks and white FedEx vans that rumble down the street to deliver books, legal documents, computers, swimsuits, gifts, CD's and the like to America's homes and businesses.
 With the boom in Internet shopping, the increase in home-based businesses and until recently, a strong economy, the number of small-package delivery drivers in the United States has climbed to more than one million, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 To some people, they are anonymous faces, men and women clad in look-alike uniforms who ask customers to sign a hand-held computer and then are gone. But in small towns especially, they are Joe or Charlie or Sue, local fixtures who ask how the children are doing in school or shoot the breeze about a favorite sports team. They are part of the daily rhythm of things -- a reassuring human presence in an increasingly wired world. 
Those relationships -- as well as the chance to make a living outdoors and out from under the thumb of a boss -- are what make driving a delivery truck a rewarding career for workers like Warren Plum.
Mr. Plum has driven the same route for nearly 35 years in Spring Lake, N.J., a seaside town of 3,500, an hour's drive south of Manhattan. His status as local institution was on full display as he made his rounds one recent Friday.
At 8:15 a.m., Mr. Plum, 58, checked his truck's tires, horn and directional signals at the U.P.S. distribution site in nearby Tinton Falls. He then filed into an office with about 15 colleagues for a management pep talk. Richard Bowers, the supervisor, reviewed safe-driving pointers and wound up by saying that "it's going to be a hot one."
He was in his truck at 8:40. He turned onto Route 18 south for the 12-mile trek to Spring Lake. "I started out delivering to people with young children, and now the children have grown up and had children," he said. He could have retired years ago, he added, but he stuck it out for the benefits. With all the climbing in and out of the truck carrying packages, his job is like a gym on wheels. Then there is the scenery: the ocean surf, the lake with its carpets of lily pads, the manicured lawns.
In this job, speed matters, and Mr. Plum averages 25 stops an hour, completing some deliveries in under a minute. If a package does not require a signature, he might knock, yell "U.P.S." through a screen door and leave it on the porch.
But speed is not everything. When Mr. Plum pulled up to a house on Route 71, James Fetyko came outside to take two big boxes containing fire-alarm equipment from him. The two men chatted awhile before Mr. Plum climbed back into his truck. "See you Monday," he said.
"I never ask, but he always helps," Mr. Plum said. "He's a big Mets fan, and we usually talk about the previous night's ball game."
On the way to the next stop, Mr. Plum passed Joseph Amato in the parking lot of his business, JMA Auto Service, also on Route 71. The two men waved and Mr. Plum slowed down and shouted to him through the passenger-side window, "I'll be back later."
At 10:15, he walked into Joseph's Delicatessen on Warren Avenue for a cup of coffee and a buttered bran muffin. As one of the restaurant's most faithful customers, he has his own chair imprinted with the slogan, "Warren -- The Main Man." His photo graces the "wall of fame" behind the counter, along with Mickey Mantle, Joe DiMaggio, and Craig Biggio, the Houston Astro infielder and Spring Lake resident.
He sat in his personalized chair at a table with two other regulars, maintenance workers for St. Catherine's Church a few blocks away, and fell into a conversation with one of them, Richard Burgess. Mr. Burgess moonlights as a member of the pit crew at Wall Stadium, the local stock-car racing track. Mr. Plum has been going to the races almost every Saturday night for the last 10 years, so the two men like to compare notes. 
Joseph Valentino, the deli's owner, came over to greet Mr. Plum. He told a visitor that the town would not be the same when Mr. Plum retired. Mr. Valentino's father, who also works at the deli, nodded in agreement. "It's going to take three people to replace Warren," the elder Mr. Valentino said.
At 10:30, it was back to work and a drive over to Win-Tron Electronics. As Mr. Plum scanned the boxes and sent them down a roller, Christopher Bobbe, the Win-Tron worker who retrieves them, joked that he needed to borrow his truck. The shipping manager Mark Fala eyed Mr. Plum's brown shorts and teased him about his legs.
On the way to a delivery at Alan's Butcher Block, Mr. Plum walked by four retired men sitting on a town bench. "Hey, Warren, what's happening?" one called out. One of his companions said: "What's new? Were you on vacation?" "Yes," Mr. Plum said, keeping up his quick pace.
At the butcher shop, the owner Alan Lacey asked Mr. Plum if his ears had been ringing. Mr. Lacey and some friends were just talking about him at the Spring Meadow Golf Course down the road in Wall Township, he explained. "They wanted to know if you were still working, and I told them yes," he said.
At 1 p.m., Mr. Plum returned to Joseph's Deli for a pork barbecue sandwich. This time, he rubbed elbows with the town's police chief, Robert Dawson Jr., 34. When he was a child, Mr. Dawson would throw snowballs at him, Mr. Plum recalled. "Now, he enforces the law."
At around 5, having delivered a total of 230 packages, Mr. Plum returned to Tinton Falls to turn in his truck. He then drove his 1993 Toyota truck to his home in Point Pleasant, 18 miles away.
Point Pleasant might be where he lived, but Spring Lake had a hold on him, too, he said. "Come to think of it," he said, "I'm in Spring Lake more than I'm home."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warren Plum starts his United Parcel Service route in Spring Lake, N.J., above; stops for a pickup, top right; and makes deliveries at an office and a delicatessen. (Photographs by Don Standing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CLIMBING (76%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (55%) DELIVERY SERVICES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%) UNITED PARCEL SERVICE 

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%)

PERSON: PLUM, WARREN; OLSEN, PATRICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) SPRING LAKE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



87 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: A Success for BP in Moscow: Fill It Up, Boris? 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 3 

 BODY:
Almost four years after sinking half a billion dollars into a Russian oil company, BP still has had more frustrations than profits. But it has met with quiet success in one of the least likely places -- Moscow's retail gasoline market.
 Russia's huge oil deposits lured BP to this market in 1997. In that year, BP invested $484 million in Sidanko, a Russian oil company, expecting to use its extraction expertise to transform Russia's oil industry. But the investment became mired in a bitter dispute among local business groups, a fight that last week extended to a separate project in a big Siberian gas field. 
 Even as BP fought that high-profile battle for Sidanko, a lesser-known -- and initially unwanted -- investment in gasoline stations was beginning to gush cash.
BP went into the gas station business here by accident. It inherited plans for a handful of gas stations from Mobil of the United States, after the two companies merged their European operations in 1996. BP, now one of the biggest foreign investors in Russia, at the time had chosen to focus its retail efforts on Poland, a country with clearer rules than those in Russia.
But after opening the small chain in Moscow and its suburbs with help from the ST Group, a powerful local partner with close ties to the Moscow city government, the business began to look like it was worth keeping.
The company now owns 30 stations, each of which now sells an average of 3.4 million gallons a year -- four times the average in Europe and three times the average in the United States.
Jeff Franks, general director of Petrol Complex, a joint venture of BP and the ST Group, said that from the time he arrived in 1998, "we didn't have enough cash registers to take in all the cash."
Those casino-size revenues, however, did not produce profits until March, in part because a ruble devaluation in 1998 caused the price of imported equipment and supplies to soar. BP now tries to buy as much as it can in Russia, with cheap rubles.
Cost is only part of the reason for BP's success. The company has also benefited by offering Russian drivers what is a rare commodity here -- good service. BP's minimarts, complete with selections of wine and espresso bars, contrast starkly with Russian gas stations, which rarely carry food and usually require customers to pay for gas by stuffing cash through a tinted window and to ask questions into a microphone.
President Vladimir V. Putin, who passes two stations on his way to work every day, has praised them publicly. BP has even had to contend with imitation brands, the ultimate compliment.
Mr. Franks said the gas stations have added to BP's reputation, which should help its investments in Sidanko and the Siberian gas field. They also give the company an enviable head start as Russians become wealthier, increasing the demand for cars -- and gasoline.
BP's experience in the retail market here illustrates how Russia's business climate has changed the last five years. While BP's powerful partner set it above small crime groups that sought to control the market in the early 1990's, the company still had to contend with more than 500 independent retailers. Since then, the strongest companies have prevailed, leaving about 25 retailers. (This same consolidation process took about 20 years in Britain, Mr. Franks said.)
Many problems remain, notably red tape. At one gas station construction site, for example, two different state inspections have given conflicting sets of orders.
"When I first got here, I thought we had bad translators," Mr. Franks said. "Now I know the laws are just written in gray. The same rule looks different in the hands of each new official."
But things are changing. The government has taken some steps in an economic reform program, notably slashing tax rates, which could help BP, whose diligence as a taxpayer puts it at a disadvantage in a country where few of its competitors pay in full.
"Russia isn't different from anyone else, it's just a few years back in history -- it's a 10-year-old country," Mr. Franks said. "When it moves, it moves fast. From the absurd to reasonable in two years -- that's classic Russia." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); IMPORT PRICES (61%); DEVALUATION (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS 

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BP PLC; MOBIL OIL CORP 

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



88 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Accord Is Set on Timor Gap Energy Revenue 

BYLINE:  By BECKY GAYLORD 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, July 3 

 BODY:
Australia and East Timor have agreed on how to split potentially lucrative energy revenue, a deal that is expected to channel millions of dollars to the struggling East Timorese economy, as development of rich gas and oil deposits beneath the Timor Sea begins.
 The proposed 30-year agreement will give East Timor 90 percent of the revenue from petroleum development in the Timor Gap, a portion of the seabed between Australia and East Timor that has been in dispute for decades. 
 The previous agreement, which Australia reached in 1989 with Indonesia, lapsed 10 years later after East Timor voted for independence. Negotiations on a new pact started last year. Until a deal was set and the legal and tax rules were clear, progress on major petroleum projects was stalled. 
East Timor is expected to receive substantially more than $3.6 billion in revenue from existing and planned developments in the area the next 24 years, according to a statement today from the Australian government.
Previously, East Timor received just half of the proceeds from development in the Timor Gap, an area of about 30,000 square miles. Oil is the nation's only significant economic hope besides coffee, and perhaps eventually, tourism.
The money from petroleum development will swell significantly in coming years as billions of dollars of investments come on line. One major development now under way is a $1.6 billion project to develop liquid reserves in the Bayu-Undan field. Phillips Petroleum of the United States estimates that there are 400 million barrels of liquid reserves there. Woodside Petroleum of Australia also has interests in the Timor Gap. And there are methanol and liquefied natural gas projects planned there, too. Liquefied natural gas could be exported to growing markets in Asia and the United States West Coast in three to five years.
Time was running short for the new treaty to be completed. East Timor will hold national elections the end of next month. And the agreement that was announced today will be incorporated into a new treaty when East Timor becomes independent, which is expected early next year.
Jose Ramos-Horta, Mari Alkatiri and Peter Galbraith, members of the transitional East Timor cabinet, finished the agreement last week in Canberra.

GRAPHIC: Map of Indonesia highlights East Timor: Australia and East Timor have an agreement on offshore oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); ELECTIONS (67%); ALCOHOLS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%)

PERSON: GAYLORD, BECKY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (74%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); WEST USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) AUSTRALIA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (79%) AUSTRALIA; EAST TIMOR

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



89 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Rose in May Led by Demand for Vehicles 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3 

 BODY:
Orders placed with factories rose in May for the third time in the last four months, led by increased demand for autos and semiconductors, the government said today. Inventories fell for a fourth consecutive month, suggesting manufacturers may have to bolster production after an eight-month decline.
 Factory orders increased 2.5 percent in May after a 3.4 percent drop in April, the Commerce Department said. Orders excluding transportation rose 2.3 percent, the biggest gain in one year. 
 The report comes a day after a private industry index measuring manufacturing rose last month to the highest level since November and adds evidence factories may be recovering from their slump.
"Stockpiles are moving off the shelves and, if demand starts to increase, manufacturers will boost production, which leads to higher economic growth," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist at Argus Research in New York.
Nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a barometer of business investment in new equipment, rose 0.3 percent in May, the first increase since January.
Inventories at factories fell 0.3 percent after falling 0.2 percent in April, and shipments rose 2.6 percent. That brought the inventory-to-shipments ratio to 1.37 months from 1.41 in April. The ratio is the lowest since May 2000.
"Inventories have been pulled down so low that it doesn't take much of an increase in demand to get orders to pick up," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union in Charlotte, N.C. "It's a very favorable development." 
Orders for all durable goods, big-ticket items intended to last three or more years, rose 3 percent in May after falling 5.7 percent in April.
Orders for transportation equipment rose 3.5 percent in May after falling 9.4 percent in April. Orders for automotive equipment rose 3.5 percent in May.
Orders for nondurable goods like clothing and paper goods rose 1.9 percent in May after falling 0.6 percent in April.
Orders for computers and electronic products rose 2.3 percent in May after declining 13.7 percent in April. Semiconductor orders surged 32.5 percent after falling 40.3 percent a month earlier.
While demand for semiconductors will probably decline 14 percent to 17 percent this year from last, a reduction in inventories may lead to increased orders toward the end of the year, George Scalise, president of the Semiconductor Industry Association, said last week. "The underlying demand for the computer products, communications products, is still there."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeMay: +2.5%April: -3.4March: +0.7 Graph shows figures from December 1999-March 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); INVENTORIES (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SHIPMENTS (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



90 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Warnings on Profits and Holiday Lull Keep Shares Flat

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street stalled yesterday, held back by a new round of earnings warnings and decreased trading activity ahead of the Fourth of July holiday.
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 22.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 10,571.11, after an abbreviated session that ended at 1 p.m. United States markets will be closed today for the holiday and re-open tomorrow. 
 Broader stock indicators were nearly unchanged. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 7.92 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,140.80, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.26 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,234.45. 
"We've had a little bit of earnings news, but basically this is a pretty quiet market because of the holiday," said James Meyer, director of research at Janney Montgomery Scott. "It'll probably be more productive today on the golf course, than on the trading floor."
DuPont fell 92 cents, to $47.20, after sharply curtailing its earnings estimate for the second quarter, blaming a global economic slowdown and a strong dollar.
Earnings worries also hurt technology stocks. Axsys Technologies fell 17 cents, to $10.74, after reducing its second-quarter outlook and cutting 9 percent of its work force because of soft demand for products.
In the software sector, BroadVision dropped 89 cents, to $4.04, after lowering its second-quarter revenue forecast and expanding loss estimates.
The warnings are the latest in what has been an unrelenting string of bad news ahead of second-quarter earnings reports, which start this month.
Although Wall Street had been expecting the second quarter to be weak, many investors have been caught off guard by the level of weakness and most companies' inability to predict when the environment will improve.
That murkiness has thwarted the market's efforts to rally. Since investors have no confidence in when results will improve, they have had little incentive to fully commit their money to the market and do a lot of buying.
Even a new Commerce Department report yesterday showing United States factory orders rebounding in May to their best performance in nearly a year -- chiefly on stronger demand for cars and semiconductors -- failed to inspire investors.
"The whole key here is earnings, and when earnings will start to turn," said Robert Harrington, co-head of listed block trading at UBS Warburg. "It's just not visible quite yet when that will happen, but people are hopeful it will.
"The Federal Reserve has cut interest rates six times this year. People are just waiting to see when things will turnaround," he added.
Also yesterday, European regulators, as expected, blocked General Electric's $45 billion purchase of Honeywell International, citing competitive concerns. G.E. slipped 69 cents, to $49.51, while Honeywell rose 99 cents, to $35.10, on a report the board was going to replace Michael R. Bonsignore, the chief executive and chairman. 
In the bond market, Treasury prices fell yesterday in a shortened trading session. Bond markets, which closed at 2 p.m., will be closed today and will reopen tomorrow.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 13/32 , to a price of 9 76/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.38 percent from 5.32 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 15/32 , to 95 4/32 . The bond's yield rose to 5.72 percent from 5.68 percent yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); LABOR FORCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: AXSYS TECHNOLOGIES INC (55%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); HON (NYSE) (50%); HON (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (55%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



91 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Honeywell Regroups as Chief Resigns 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Hours after the European Commission rejected the $45 billion acquisition by General Electric of Honeywell International, Michael R. Bonsignore, the chairman and chief executive of Honeywell, tendered his resignation.
 The company, which is based in Morristown, N.J., also said it would take a pretax revamping charge of $575 million to $625 million in the second quarter and forecasted full-year revenue and earnings that were lower than consensus Wall Street estimates. 
 The announcements came last evening, at the close of an extended meeting of Honeywell's board.
Lawrence A. Bossidy, who was chairman and chief executive of Allied Signal when it bought Honeywell in 1999 and served for a brief period as chairman of Honeywell after the merger, was named to succeed Mr. Bonsignore, 60, who had been with Honeywell for more than 31 years. 
In recent weeks, as the prospects that Honeywell and General Electric would merge faded, analysts said Mr. Bonsignore's future role at an independent Honeywell was increasingly suspect. They said the appointment of Mr. Bossidy was a positive move.
"Mr. Bossidy's return is a plus for the stock," said Harriet C. Baldwin, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "He is very focused on operating numbers. With him in charge the likelihood improves that Honeywell will improve profit margins over the next year."
" He has very good credibility with investors," she added. "And it will be important for Honeywell to communicate with investors." 
In a telephone conference call with reporters, Mr. Bossidy, 66, said he was first approached about returning to Honeywell three weeks ago, following a board meeting. "There was a discussion about a change of command," Mr. Bossidy said. "I know the company better than anybody else, and I was an ideal candidate."
Mr. Bossidy, who has signed a one-year contract, said his tenure at Honeywell "might be less, it might be more."
"I am not here to start a new career," he added, "but to restore stability." 
The intention, Mr. Bossidy insisted, is not to prepare Honeywell for an immediate sale. "We want to stay independent now, and get the company back on its feet," he said. 
But in the next breath, he described his mandate from Honeywell's board to "fix the company or sell it." 
Mr. Bossidy said a decision on whether to take legal action against General Electric for not moving forcefully enough to get the merger approved would be made "sooner rather than later." 
The threat of a lawsuit could pressure G.E. to make some payment to Honeywell to compensate for the collapse of the deal, even though under the merger agreement G.E. is not required to pay a termination fee. 
Analysts said at this point the merits of a lawsuit look dubious and could be a needless distraction for Honeywell. It also remains to be seen if Mr. Bossidy, who spent much of his career at G.E., would want to sue his former employer. 
During his conversation last night, Mr. Bossidy said he had spoken with John F. Welch Jr., the G.E. chairman, earlier to arrange a golf date.
Shares of Honeywell closed at $35.10, up 99 cents yesterday. Over the last 52 weeks, the stock has traded as high as $55.69 and as low as $33.
Analysts agreed the company needed a bit of time to regain its footing.
"In essence, Honeywell has not been run as an independent company for the better part of a year," said Eli Lustgarten, an analyst at H. C. Wainwright & Company. "Because of that, there are a lot of basic business decisions that have been postponed. I would assume they will begin to get the business back in shape before they go back on the block." 
Last night, Honeywell said that its second-quarter charge related primarily to customer settlements, asset impairments, merger-related expenses and legal and environmental costs. It expects second-quarter revenue to be $6 billion, and earnings to be 53 cents to 55 cents a share. For the full year, the company is forecasting revenue of $24 billion to $24.5 billion and earnings of $2.15 to $2.30 a share.
Wall Street analysts, who have not had any guidance from Honeywell since General Electric made its offer last fall, had been projecting earnings of $2.50 to $2.55 a share. 
Despite the lower numbers, Mr. Bossidy suggested Honeywell could bounce back from its problems, which are only partly rooted in a weak economic environment.
"We have been hurt by the distraction," involved in attempting to merge with G.E., he said. "There is a lot we can improve despite the economic environment. I want to reinitiate our Six Sigma activities, and do more on e-commerce." (Six Sigma is a cost-cutting procedure that was started by G.E. during Mr. Bossidy's tenure there.) 
Matt Collins, an analyst with Edward Jones in St. Louis, said Mr. Bossidy's return to Honeywell made it more likely that for a while at least the company would remain independent. "That is a good sign they want to fix things," he said. "With Bossidy back in control there is a higher likelihood they could survive alone for some period of time." 
It appears Mr. Bossidy will shed some of Honeywell's businesses. Last summer, before G.E. pre-empted United Technologies and began its $45 billion bid for the company, Honeywell identified its automotive brake business as a candidate for sale. 
"It is obvious that we have the best aerospace business in the world," Mr. Bossidy said. "That continues to be at the centerpiece of what we are going to try and develop and grow further." 
However desirable, selling businesses in the midst of an economic slowdown will be a challenge, analysts said. And some said that once they were gone Honeywell itself would again be a takeover candidate. 
"It is likely Larry Bossidy is being brought in to clean up the company a bit, shore up morale and shine it up for sale. I think the odds on the company remaining independent seem pretty low," said Michael Holton, an analyst at T. Rowe Price.
In addition to United Technologies, Mr. Holton said Tyco International and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing have been mentioned as possible bidders for Honeywell. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence A. Bossidy, 66, right, the former head of Allied Signal, was chosen to become Honeywell's new chairman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); LITIGATION (84%); DISMISSALS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (95%); HON (LSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; BONSIGNORE, MICHAEL R; BOSSIDY, LAWRENCE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



92 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
True or False Or a Bit of Both

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A COMMON indictment of public schools is that they no longer offer upward mobility to most immigrants. It is said that in the first half of the 20th century, children learned English, went to college and joined the middle class but that many of today's immigrants are more likely to drop out, take dead-end jobs or end up in prison.
 Many true accounts reinforce these beliefs. But less noticed are equally valid anecdotes pointing to an opposite claim. 
 Policy by anecdote is flawed because too often we notice only what confirms our preconceptions. California's recent experience with Mexican immigrants provides ample material for stories about school failure. But on a day to celebrate the American promise, we might also turn to anecdotes of another kind.
Recent college graduations in California featured many immigrants from impoverished families whose first language was Spanish, who came through much-maligned bilingual education programs, learned English and now head for graduate schools or professions.
At California State University at Fresno, for example, about 700 of 4,000 graduates this spring were Latino, typically the first in their families to attend college. Top-ranked were Pedro Nava and Maria Rocio Magana, Mexican-born children of farm and cannery workers.
Mr. Nava did not settle in the United States until the third grade. Before that, he lived in migrant labor camps during harvests and in Mexico the rest of the year. His California schooling was in Spanish until the fifth grade, when he was moved to English instruction. Now, with a college degree, he has enrolled in management and teacher training courses.
Ms. Magana did not place into English classes until the 11th grade. Now fluent in both academic and conversational English, she will soon begin a Ph.D. program in anthropology at the University of Chicago.
Their achievements are not unique. Both credit success to their mothers' emphasis on education. Both mothers enrolled in English and high school equivalency courses at the local community college.
Across California, these two-year institutions play an especially important role for immigrants.
Lourdes Andrade just finished her junior year at Brown, having transferred there after getting associate of arts degrees in history and liberal arts at Oxnard Community College, 40 miles northwest of Los Angeles. She arrived here at age 4 and all through elementary school worked with her mother making beds and cleaning bathrooms in hotels. She, too, attributes her success to her mother's strong academic pressure and also to mentoring she received in a federally financed program to give extra academic support to migrant children.
The program's director, Lorenzo Moraza, also grew up speaking only Spanish. Now a school principal, Mr. Moraza estimates that about 30 percent of the immigrant children he has worked with acquired public school records that led them to college. Those who receive bachelor's degrees are many fewer, but Mr. Moraza says he thinks most drop out of college for economic reasons, not academic ones.
At the Fresno campus, nearly two-thirds of the immigrants and children of immigrants who enter as freshmen eventually graduate. The university operates special support services to help them do so.
You cannot spend time in California without noticing an extensive middle class of Latino teachers, doctors, lawyers and small-business people. Many are recent immigrants. Some attended Catholic schools but most are products of the public system. Many had bilingual education in the 1970's, 80's and 90's. California has now banned such instruction, assuming it failed.
Anecdotes are plentiful to support a claim that schools fail immigrant children or an equally persuasive claim that schools serve them well. Getting better statistics should help. Government numbers do not distinguish between students who are immigrants (or whose parents immigrated) from Hispanics with American roots for several generations.
To help interpret California's experience, the best federal data tell only that in 1996, there were 100,000 college students nationwide who were American citizens born in Mexico. This is less than 1 percent of all college students. But uncounted are even larger numbers of those born here to recent migrants.
Even a balanced collection of anecdotes that include successes as well as failures cannot determine whether California schools are less effective than we should expect, and whether wholesale change is needed to move more immigrants to the middle class. But the answer is certainly more complex than the stereotypes of systematic failure that pervade most accounts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HISTORY (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



93 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Study of Car Loans Shows Racial Disparity in Costs
A study of more than 300,000 car loans arranged through Nissan dealers from March 1993 to last September -- thought to be the largest pool of car loan data ever analyzed for racial patterns -- shows that black customers in 33 states consistently paid more than white customers, regardless of credit history.
 Among the largest states, the study showed that, on average, blacks paid $245 more in Connecticut, $339 more in New Jersey and $405 more in New York. Page A1. 

Airlines Provide Online Bargains
The bargains available on the Internet are becoming scarce everywhere but the airline industry, which is pushing customers to buy online and rewarding them to do so. A1.

Some changes in corporate policies could have long-term consequences for airlines and hotels. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C3.

Factory Orders Rose 2.5% in May
Orders placed with factories rose 2.5 percent in May for the third time in the last four months, led by increased demand for autos and semiconductors, the government said. Inventories fell for a fourth consecutive month, suggesting manufacturers may have to bolster production after an eight-month decline. The report comes a day after a private industry index measuring manufacturing rose last month to the highest level since November. C5.

Draft of Free Trade Pact Issued
The draft text of parts of the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas agreement was made public, giving the first official view of talks to create a trade area stretching from the Arctic circle to South America. C5.

OPEC Leaves Oil Output Unchanged
OPEC producers agreed to keep oil output limits unchanged as expectations rose for resumption of crude exports from Iraq. C6.

Pilots Protest American Air Plan
American Airlines pilots are protesting a plan by the airline to trim its flying time from Dallas to Honolulu, saying that the flight plan would force pilots to fly dangerously low. A9.

Stocks Slip in Lackluster Trading
Stocks stalled in lackluster trading ahead of the Fourth of July holiday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,571.11. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 7.92 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,140.80, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.26 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,234.45. C6.

Attuned to the Sound of Money
David Dyer, chief executive of Lands' End, said he came from a family of retailers. He followed in their footsteps at 16. One day he and his father were walking through a store in Atlanta. It still had the old National Cash Registers that went "ka-ching" when the drawer opened for a sale, he said. "I started thinking about how every time I heard that noise, the store was making money. I became attuned to hearing the money come in." The Boss. C5.

The Art of Scandal Management
David F. D'Alessandro, chief executive of John Hancock Financial Services, learned a lesson in handling a corporate scandal early in his career. Colleagues at a different company were prepared to lie to prosecutors before he insisted that they tell the truth. Management. C5.

Belgium Sues Swissair Over Sabena
Belgium sued Swissair after it proposed a rescue plan for Sabena that the government dismissed. World Business, Section W.

E.E.O.C. Files Suit Against Emery
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed a lawsuit against Emery Worldwide Airlines, accusing it of racial discrimination and harassment against black employees at a trucking center in Kearny, N.J. B4.

U.S. Financial Markets Closed
The stock market and other financial markets in the United States will be closed today in observance of the Fourth of July. Most overseas markets, however, will be open.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,571.11 down 22.61Nasdaq composite -- 2,140.80 down 7.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.38% up 0.06The euro -- $0.8478 up 0.0013The dollar -- 124.34 yen unch. Graph shows factory order figures from December 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INVENTORIES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); RETAILERS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: DAVID F DYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARCTIC (54%); IRAQ (53%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



94 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Appeals Court Bars Firing of Transsexual 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN 

 BODY:
A New Jersey appeals court said yesterday that transsexuals were protected by state laws against discrimination, as it ruled in the case of a doctor who was fired after he began dressing as a woman in preparation for a sex change.
 A three-judge panel of the state's Appellate Division ruled that the doctor, who is now a woman, could sue her former employer, a South Jersey clinic, for wrongful termination under the state's bias laws. 
 "It is incomprehensible to us that our Legislature would ban discrimination against heterosexual men and women, against homosexual men and women, and others, but would condone discrimination against men or women who seek to change their anatomical sex," the judges wrote in a lengthy decision.
Civil rights advocates called the decision significant because it broadened the definition of the characteristics or conditions protected by laws that bar discrimination based on sex. 
Matt Coles, director of the lesbian and gay rights project for the American Civil Liberties Union, said many courts around the country had addressed, piecemeal, issues of gender identity, like whether a male employee can be fired for wearing a dress.
"This court looked at the whole thing and said that gender identity of every sort is protected against discrimination," said Mr. Coles, whose group has offered to join in the lawsuit. "It said in effect that everything from being a little too masculine if you are a woman, or being a little too feminine if you are a man, to someone's actually physically changing their gender, is protected against discrimination."
The court reversed a decision by a Superior Court judge in Camden that had dismissed a lawsuit by Dr. Carla Enriquez, born Carlos Enriquez, against West Jersey Health Systems, which ran the West Jersey Center for Behavior, Learning and Attention. That center, whose location was not disclosed in court papers, fired Dr. Enriquez as its medical director in October 1997 after learning of the doctor's plans to undergo surgery to become a woman.
The Superior Court judge, E. Stevenson Fluharty, found that transexualism was not a recognized mental or physical disability, and noted that Dr. Enriquez did not consider herself gay and did not face discrimination as a gay person. Therefore, the judge said, she was not entitled to protection under state bias laws, which say it is unlawful for an employer to dismiss someone based on the person's sex or "affectional or sexual orientation."
The appellate court disagreed; it ruled that Dr. Enriquez's condition, known as gender dysphoria, was a handicap covered by the state law, and ordered the case back to Superior Court.
Calls to Dr. Enriquez's lawyer were not returned. A spokeswoman for Virtua Health, a nonprofit health system that now owns West Jersey Health Systems, would not comment on the ruling. Virtua was created two years ago when West Jersey merged with Memorial Hospital of Burlington County. 
According to court papers, Dr. Enriquez was in the private practice of general and developmental pediatrics from 1974 to 1995. As Carlos Enriquez, he was hired in November 1995 as medical director for the West Jersey clinic. Less than a year later, he began preparations for a sex change, including shaving his beard and growing breasts.
Dr. Enriquez contends that in early 1997, executives of West Jersey, including John Cossa, the vice president, expressed their discomfort with the changes and that Mr. Cossa said, "Stop all this and go back to your previous appearance." That October, Mr. Cossa gave Dr. Enriquez a letter of dismissal. 
The doctor, who had a sex change operation in 1998, is also suing for breach of contract and interference with economic opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCRIMINATION (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); APPEALS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); JUDGES (89%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%) TRANSSEXUALS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



95 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Defiant Milosevic Scorns Accusers at Hague Hearing
Slobodan Milosevic appeared before an international tribunal that has accused him of crimes against humanity in Kosovo, but the former Yugoslavian president dismissed the court as an "illegal organ" and refused to enter a plea. A1

Airliner Crashes in Siberia
A Russian airliner carrying 143 passengers and crew members crashed near Irkutsk while approaching the airport for an intermediate stop on a flight from Yekaterinburg to Vladivostok. Early reports indicated that there were no survivors. A4

U.S. Expresses Regret for Rape
The new United States ambassador to Japan expressed regret for the rape of an Okinawan woman in which an American serviceman is suspected. The Japanese police were waiting for the American military to hand over the suspect, a sergeant. A7

West Bank Settler Killed
A Jewish settler's body was found shot and stabbed, apparently by Palestinians, dealing a new blow to the faltering cease-fire. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon met with senior cabinet ministers and authorized more assassinations of Palestinian militants, people at the meeting said. A3

Iraqi Diplomat Seeks Asylum
A top Iraqi diplomat at the United Nations, Muhammad al-Humaimidi, has asked for asylum in the United States, the police in New York said. And a second Iraqi diplomat, Fela Hesan al-Rubaie, who disappeared about two weeks ago, may also be trying to defect, other envoys said. A4

World Briefing A7

DINING F1-8

OBITUARIES A12-13

Mordecai Richler
The cranky and combative Canadian novelist and critic was 70. A13

NATIONAL A8-12

Racial Disparity Found In Car Loan Interest Rates
A statistical analysis of more than 300,000 car loans arranged through Nissan dealers from March 1993 to last September shows that black customers in 33 states consistently paid more than white customers, regardless of their credit histories. A1

Ford to Teach Sport Utility Skills
Top Driver, a chain of driving schools owned by Ford, is developing a course to teach motorists how to drive sport utility vehicles. A9

Police Cameras Search Crowds
The Tampa police are using three dozen security cameras equipped with face-recognition software to search for criminal suspects among people in a downtown district. A1

Rules Don't Solve Power Crisis
California and Nevada officials said new federal controls on western electricity prices appeared to have led some generators to withhold supplies, worsening shortages. Las Vegas had its first blackouts on Monday. A8

Pilots Protest New Flight Plan
American Airlines pilots have complained to the F.A.A. that a plan by the airline to trim the flying time from Dallas to Honolulu will force planes to fly too fast and too low. A9

Plea Deal for Spy Suspect
The former F.B.I. agent Robert P. Hanssen was said to have agreed to plead guilty to spying for Moscow in exchange for a government promise not to seek the death penalty. A9

Death at a Youth Boot Camp
The authorities in Phoenix were investigating the death of a 14-year-old boy in a rigorous boot-camp program for troubled youth. A8

A Justice's Misgivings
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, addressing the Minnesota Women Lawyers associationa on Monday, questioned the fairness of the death penalty and raised the possibility that innocent people had been executed. She also said that defendants with more money got better legal defense. A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

An Insider Describes Plot to Attack U.S.
Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian convicted of trying to carry out a terrorist attack in the United States on the eve of the millennium, testified that he got money and training at camps in Afghanistan that American officials say were run by Osama bin Laden. Mr. Ressam testified in federal court in Manhattan at the trial of Mokhtar Haouari, another Algerian accused of providing money and support to blow up the Los Angeles airport. A1

Teams Ask State for Aid
The Yankees and the Mets are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in highway and transit improvements from New York State as part of their efforts to build new stadiums. B1

ARTS E1-16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Self-Contained Artificial Heart
Surgeons in Louisville said they had placed the first fully implantable artificial heart in a human being. A1

Seeking Deal on Stem Cells
President Bush's advisers are searching for compromise on government financing of research on stem cells derived from human embryos that will satisfy both patients' advocates and religious conservatives. A1

EDUCATION B8

SPORTS D1-8

Capriati Stays On Course
Jennifer Capriati beat Serena Williams, 6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-3, to gain the semifinals with Venus Williams, Lindsay Davenport and Justine Henin. D1

Injured Boxer Dies
Beethavean Scottland, 26, died from head injuries sustained in a bout on the U.S.S. Intrepid last week. D4

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

G.E.-Honeywell Deal Is Dead
The European Commission formally blocked G.E.'s $45 billion takeover of Honeywell, and Europe's chief antitrust regulator bristled at American "political interference." C1

Michael R. Bonsignore resigned as chairman and chief executive of Honeywell after the European announcement. Lawrence A. Bossidy, who was chairman and chief executive of Allied Signal when it bought Honeywell in 1999, succeeds him. C1

Rebound in Auto Sales
Auto sales rose 0.3 percent from June of last year, the first monthly increase over last year's record pace. Foreign automakers reaped most of the benefits. Ford and G.M. reported lower overall sales, while the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler reported a 1 percent increase after months of declines. C1

Executive Selling at Goldman
David A. Viniar, chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs Group, is taking in more than $250,000 a day from selling his stock in the firm, which said the sales were part of an "orderly" program of insider sales. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The quest for an artificial heart; Jack Welch's legacy; inheriting the future.

Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E14
TV Listings E15
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (86%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (86%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); DEATHS (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); POWER FAILURES (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); LITERARY CRITICISM (64%); BIOMETRICS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); AUTOMOBILE DRIVING SCHOOLS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



96 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Guitars Gently Weep as Nashville Pays Tribute to Chet Atkins 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, July 3 

 BODY:
Chet Atkins was as lean and spare and intense as Nashville is boisterous, a reticent musical craftsman who shaped and defined a city of showmen. At his funeral today, a worshipful country music industry tried to define its debt to him, finally giving up on superlatives and expressing itself as he did in the gentle picking of a Gretsch electric guitar.
 As his friends Marty Stuart and Vince Gill played some of Mr. Atkins's hits, much of country music's royalty sat motionless on the hard wooden pews of the Ryman Auditorium, the old gospel tabernacle where Mr. Atkins played so often with the Grand Ole Opry. There was a strong sense among them that Mr. Atkins, who died of cancer on Saturday at 77, was the best musician of their music's founding generation, and took with him something elemental that is now lost in the marketplace. 
 "We will never see the like of his talent in one man," said a barely composed Eddy Arnold, the country singer whose hits in the 1950's and 60's were produced by Mr. Atkins. "When you talked about who was the greatest guitar player, Chet's name was never mentioned, because you just took him and put him up there, and then you argued about the rest of them." 
But even beyond his six-string virtuosity, Mr. Atkins presided over the city for decades as its most prominent recording executive, a principal creator of the smooth and palatable "Nashville Sound" that took the music from its bluegrass origins to worldwide commercial success and erected a pillar of the state's economy. If the strings and controlled arrangements he and other producers added to the music stole some of its spontaneity and edge over the years, Mr. Atkins always said he did what was necessary to keep from being drowned out by rock 'n' roll.
Some results of his rescue efforts were evident in the long caravan of limousines that pulled up to the side door of the Ryman this morning and discharged celebrities that he first signed to recording contracts, or produced, or coached through ramshackle lives to stardom.
"He changed my life," said Charley Pride, the industry's only black superstar, discovered by Mr. Atkins. "Everything that ever happened to me started with him."
Dolly Parton, whom he signed to RCA, was not there, but Ray Stevens was, and Steve Wariner and T. G. Sheppard. 
But it was the older stars, Mr. Atkins's own fragile generation, who showed up in the greatest numbers, struggling through infirmities to pay their tributes. Kitty Wells and her husband, Johnny Wright, walked slowly into the hall, Mr. Wright using a cane. Jumpin' Bill Carlisle, 92, whose Knoxville radio show gave Mr. Atkins early exposure in the 1940's, arrived in a wheelchair, a difficult sight for those who remembered him bounding across the stage of the Ryman during two of the three decades it housed the Opry. Waylon Jennings, country music's legendary rowdy, squirmed into his wheelchair from the back of the day's longest stretch limousine.
"He was a genius," said Mr. Jennings, whom Mr. Atkins signed and produced. "We used to argue and we'd get madder than hell. Then we'd go inside and make some great records."
Mr. Atkins's orange Gretsch guitar sat on the front of the stage in a spotlight during the service, next to one of his signature white hats. His friend Paul Yandell played a similar guitar on "Mr. Sandman," an instrumental hit for Mr. Atkins in 1955, and Connie Smith sang the gospel hymn "Farther Along," backed by an instrumental group that included Mr. Stuart on mandolin.
Later, perhaps in a tribute to Mr. Atkins's sweetened production style, Mr. Stuart and several other musicians played the old Skeeter Davis song "The End of the World," accompanied by a string quartet.
Garrison Keillor, who became a friend of Mr. Atkins's after many years of sharing the stage on Mr. Keillor's public radio show, "A Prairie Home Companion," gave a eulogy laced with quotations from their personal correspondence, revealing a joking side to the guitarist not always on display in the studio.
"I had a screamer in the audience," Mr. Atkins wrote Mr. Keillor a few years ago. "I saw her later and she wasn't all that bad, about 35. A fellow could run some weight off her and maybe fall in love."
Mr. Keillor told some of the Atkins stories that have entered into local lore: How Mr. Atkins grew up poor and asthmatic in eastern Tennessee, replacing a broken string on his Sears Silvertone guitar with a wire from the screen door; how he developed his trademark picking style listening to Merle Travis on a crystal radio set; how he enchanted listeners at his first Opry performance in 1946 with an acoustic version of "Maggie," prompting Minnie Pearl to kiss him and say: "You're a wonderful musician. You're just what we've been needing around here."
Mr. Keillor reminded his audience of about 1,800 that Mr. Atkins knew and played with Elvis Presley, Hank Williams and Patsy Cline, and said Dolly Parton recently kept him laughing for hours as she flirted outrageously with him on his deathbed.
And he called Mr. Atkins the "guitar player of the 20th century," perhaps the greatest influence on other guitar players any musician has had.
"You might be shy and homely and puny and from the sticks and feel looked down upon," Mr. Keillor said, "but if you could play the guitar like that, you would be aristocracy and you would never have to point it out. Anybody with sense would know, and the others don't matter that much anyway."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 4 about the funeral of Chet Atkins, the Nashville musician and producer, misidentified the manufacturer of one of his guitars, which was onstage during the service. It was made by the Gibson Guitar Company, not by the Gretsch Company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vince Gill, Paul Yandell and Steve Wariner, left to right front, with David Hungate on bass, in Nashville yesterday at Chet Atkins's funeral. Mr. Atkins guitar and hat were on the stage nearby. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); COUNTRY MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); DEATHS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%) MUSIC; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; ATKINS, CHET 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NASHVILLE (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



97 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: COMMODITIES; 
OPEC Ministers Agree to Maintain Output at Current Level

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: VIENNA, July 3 

 BODY:
OPEC producers agreed to keep oil output limits unchanged today as expectations rose for an imminent resumption of crude exports from Iraq.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries left output for 10 members at 24.2 million barrels a day, keeping in place the supply restrictions it set earlier this year. 
 OPEC is struggling to defend prices at its $25-a-barrel target because of the likely resumption of substantial Iraqi supplies and an economic downturn that is eating into world oil demand. 
"We took account of the situation in the market, which is well supplied," said Chakib Khelil, the president of OPEC. "Stocks are at a very good level relative to last year." 
Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, said the cartel was prepared to rein in supply again if the return of Iraqi oil pushed prices too low.
"If Iraqi oil returns, we may have to take steps to cut back," Mr. Naimi said. "Demand is reflecting the slowdown in economic growth. It is not picking up in the East or the West."
In New York, crude oil for August delivery rose 29 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $26.24 a barrel. In London, Brent crude oil for August was down 29 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $25.35 a barrel.
Iraq is expected to lift a self-imposed block on oil sales after the United States and Britain, facing the threat of a Russian veto, abandoned efforts to overhaul United Nations trade sanctions on Iraq. Instead, the existing oil-for-food program was renewed for five months.
That would appear to meet Iraq's conditions for a resumption of its exports of two million barrels a day. Iraq stopped exports in early June in protest of the proposed change in sanctions.
But the extension by the United Nations included a reference to the June 1 British-American resolution on sanctions along with several other Iraq-related resolutions passed by the council "as they relate to the improvement of the humanitarian program for Iraq."
Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations declined to say whether Baghdad would accept the extension and resume its oil exports. But he said the reference to the June 1 resolution "is unacceptable in principle."
Previously expecting to compensate for Iraq, OPEC found it had no option but to maintain production unchanged to keep prices in its range of $22 to $28 a barrel.
OPEC ministers are hoping that the return of Iraqi deliveries will not cause any further decline in oil prices.
"Now we believe the market has considered Iraq's return and in the third quarter we are very close to balance between supply and demand," said Bijan Zanganeh, the oil minister of Iran.
Many oil analysts think there is more likelihood of oil prices climbing than falling. "Even if Iraq comes back, there are still bullish pressures on the market because of seasonal factors which could create upward pressure on prices," said Raad Alkadiri of the Petroleum Finance Corporation in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chakib Khelil, the president of OPEC, said the ministers considered the oil market well supplied. (Associated Press) Graph: "COMMODITIES"Tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); VETO (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



98 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Review of Nissan Car Loans Finds That Blacks Pay More 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
A statistical study of more than 300,000 car loans arranged through Nissan dealers from March 1993 to last September -- believed by experts to be the largest pool of car loan data ever analyzed for racial patterns -- shows that black customers in 33 states consistently paid more than white customers, regardless of their credit histories.
 The gap between black and white borrowers was largest in Maryland and Wisconsin, where the average finance charge paid by blacks was about $800 higher than whites paid. 
 Among the largest states, the study also showed that on average blacks paid $245 more in Connecticut, $339 more in New Jersey and $405 more in New York. In Texas, the black-white gap was put at $364; in Florida, it was $533.
"Unfortunately, since we have not been able to examine this new material, we cannot comment yet on these new studies," said Dierdre Dickerson, a spokeswoman for the Nissan Motor loan unit, Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation. 
"But NMAC has never tolerated unfair treatment of any of its customers, let alone racial discrimination," Ms. Dickerson said.
Nissan, like other auto lenders, lets car dealers make the final decision about how much customers pay for loans. But class-action lawsuits filed in Nashville against the Nissan loan unit and the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, as well as similar suits against other auto lenders, argue that the lenders are responsible if dealers set rates in a racially disparate way.
None of the companies are accused of racial bias -- indeed, both sides agree that the giant lenders do not even know the race of the customers whose cars they finance.
Rather, the plaintiffs argue that the lenders' credit policies, for whatever reason, are having a statistically disparate impact on blacks. If they can prove that, the legal burden shifts to the lenders, who must then show a valid business need for the policies, which cannot be met in a less harmful way.
Indeed, one expert who examined the new data for the plaintiffs in the Nissan case suggests that some, though not all, of the racial disparity in loan charges may be an unintended result of limits NMAC puts on certain kinds of loans -- loans that go disproportionately to white borrowers. Other contributing factors, he said, may be simple racial bias among dealers or an assumption among dealers that blacks will be less likely than whites to balk at higher credit prices.
The plaintiffs for whom these new studies were done are challenging the industrywide practice of letting car dealers rather than lenders make the final decision about the interest rate customers will be charged on car loans arranged through their dealer. Similar fair-lending cases have been filed since October by black consumers against the financing arms of Ford, DaimlerChrysler and Toyota.
Lenders like NMAC allow dealers to add several percentage points, known as the dealer markup, to whatever interest rate Nissan has established for customers based on their income and credit history. That becomes the rate quoted to the customer, who has no way of learning of the disparity. The lender then splits the money generated by those extra percentage points with the dealer.
Dealer markup is a big-ticket issue for the industry, and the new Nissan data show why. One of the studies, done for the plaintiffs by a Vanderbilt professor, Mark A. Cohen, estimated that Nissan's share of the dealer markup paid by black consumers alone since 1990 was more than $210 million. Based on fee-splitting formulas in place during much of that time, the dealers' aggregate share would have been roughly three times that amount.
The Nashville cases were originally based on a smaller pool of loans in Tennessee. Based on the new data on Nissan -- the only lender that has provided such information so far in the cases -- lawyers for the black consumers are now seeking a preliminary injunction that would prevent Nissan from continuing to participate in dealer-markup arrangements nationwide.
NMAC has argued that any action should be postponed until a decision is reached in its appeal of an order certifying the class action.
Auto finance companies say that the dealer-markup system, besides generating revenue, allows lenders to compete for fresh business from car dealers, who can steer a customer's loan application to any of a number of financing outlets. Dealers say their share of the markup compensates them for providing customers with one-stop shopping and access to a broader spectrum of lenders than the consumer could command alone.
And the lenders themselves have argued in court that they are not responsible if the markup system is being applied in a racially discriminatory way by some car dealers.
That argument has been challenged by the Justice Department, which last fall filed a brief for the plaintiffs arguing that federal fair-lending laws hold lenders responsible for the actions of the dealers to whom they grant discretion. 
The Nashville lawsuits were filed almost three years ago, but were first disclosed publicly last October by The New York Times and ABC's "20/20," which had jointly petitioned the Federal District Court there to lift the court orders sealing the files in both cases. 
A spokeswoman declined to comment on the case pending in Los Angeles against Toyota. Dan Jarvis, a spokesman for Ford Motor Credit, which has been sued in Manhattan, said Ford had "zero tolerance for any form of discrimination." Chrysler Financial did not respond to questions about the case pending against it in New Jersey.
As the most mature of the pending lawsuits, the NMAC case remains the bellwether in the battle over the dealer markup system. And the new studies pose a roster of fresh questions about the practice.
The first study, by Professor Cohen, showed that blacks were more than twice as likely as whites to be charged a dealer markup in the first place. In the national Nissan data, 72.8 percent of blacks were charged a markup, compared to 46.7 percent of white customers.
And among all customers who were charged a markup, blacks consistently paid more than whites, according to Professor Cohen. Black borrowers who paid a dealer markup were charged, on average, $1,351, compared to $989 for the whites whose loans were marked up.
Moreover, the Cohen study showed that dealers were far less likely to give blacks, even those with top-quality credit, the advantage of the lender's preferential interest rates. Of the customers in NMAC's first credit tier, for example, 32.4 percent of whites were offered special interest rates, while only 15.3 percent of blacks were.
Professor Cohen tested for a number of variables that the lenders' statistical experts had offered as possible explanations for the observed racial disparities in Tennessee. None, he said, were sufficient to explain away all the differences in markup charges.
Professor Cohen cites, as an example, the case of two Louisiana women who purchased Nissan Sentras last year. Both women were in NMAC's first credit tier and were thus qualified to borrow at 8.25 percent. The first, who was white, borrowed $15,093 over five years at the preferential rate of 3.9 percent, with monthly payments of $277.73. The second, who is black, borrowed only $14,787 over five years, but she was charged a dealer markup of one percentage point, for a total interest rate of 9.25 percent. Her monthly payment was $309.94.
Nissan also permits dealers to move approved customers from a higher credit classification to a lower one, which has the effect of raising the customer's interest rate. Professor Cohen found that 4 percent of the black customers had been moved into a lower credit tier, while only 2.3 percent of white customers were.
NMAC established a limit on how much dealer markup can be imposed for each credit tier -- and policies like that may be inadvertently contributing to the racial disparity that shows up in the loan data, according to Ian Ayres, a lawyer and economist who is a professor at Yale Law School.
Professor Ayres, who has conducted several widely cited studies on car retailing over the past decade, examined the new Nissan data for the plaintiffs in the NMAC case.
He noted that NMAC limited the amount of markup allowed on loans in the highest credit tier. Because whites are more likely than blacks to be placed in that tier, that limitation has the side effect of reducing the markup paid by whites. Similarly, NMAC allows greater markup on loans of longer duration. Because blacks tend to borrow for a slightly longer term than whites, this too can contribute to the higher markups they pay.
Finally, NMAC often imposed lower markup caps on loans for new cars, which whites are more likely to buy than blacks.
But Professor Ayres noted that there was no business justification for allowing dealers, who have no money at risk in the transaction, to impose a higher markup based on factors such as the credit tier, the loan term or the age of the car.
"None of these selective markup caps are justified by the dealerships' costs of arranging and or processing loan applications," Professor Ayres noted in his study.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Studying Car Loans, Analyzing Differences"A study of more than 300,000 car loans arranged through Nissan dealers found that black consumers paid more. About one-third of all blacks in the nation live in these states.Dollar value of the extra percentage points dealers added to interest rates.Difference between the amounts charged to black and white consumers.The largest gaps between black and white customers were found in Maryland and Wisconsin. Chart shows markup statistics for several states.(Source: Prof. Mark A. Cohen, Vanderbilt University)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); STATISTICS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) AUTOMOBILES; RESEARCH; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; CREDIT; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (85%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%) NISSAN MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORP 

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



99 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: Rescuers' Mission Remains Steadfast; 
Time's Erosions Do Not Deter Coast Guard's Vigilance on L.I. Sound

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: EATONS NECK, N.Y., June 30 

 BODY:
Everything about this place flows from a single, immutable fact: when the wailing siren of the search-and-rescue alarm rings, young men and women run down the hill from the station house to the boats. There they scramble for a few minutes with ropes and vests and clattering metal hatches, and then without ceremony they launch themselves in a small vessel onto the water to face what may come. Their breathing, in these rarefied moments, comes in truncated puffs of exhilaration. Muscle and energy are unbound.
 It has been that way here for a long time. When the Hudson River School painter John Frederick Kensett stood on this beach nearly 130 years ago to capture a stark scene of sand and sea and sky called "Eatons Neck, Long Island," the place already had a volunteer ocean-rescue team. The culture of derring-do on the water had been established. 
 Since then the beach and the cliff around the 202-year-old Eatons Neck lighthouse have eroded. Leisurely pleasure boating emerged as the Long Island Sound's main use, replacing the freight and packet steamers of days past. The United States Coast Guard, which evolved out of the old United States Life Saving Service of the 1800's, took over "The Neck," as the locals called it. High-tech navigating and radio equipment eclipsed the need for the old glass-windowed lookout post on the station-house cupola. 
But the golden braid of values and rhythms that historians say defined the culture of rescue work back then -- the swaggering invincibility of youth and the danger of the sea, the boredom of shore duty and the excitement of the call to action -- still very much shapes the human landscape of Eatons Neck today. 
"I sometimes think, just look at this, look at what we're doing," said Bryan Mastrangelo, a boatswain's (pronounced BOE-son) mate third class, as he and a crew roared onto the water one recent morning after a race to the dock. 
Mr. Mastrangelo, who grew up on Long Island in the Nassau County village of Malverne, is the officer in charge when one of the station's two 41-foot utility boats leaves the station. Whether they face rough seas, rescue attempts or law enforcement actions that require the crew to unsheathe the sidearms that they carry as military personnel, he makes the call as the government's representative on the spot. He is 20 years old, even younger than the average age here of 23.
And the age curve, at least for the short term, is still heading down. A strong economy in recent years has hampered the Coast Guard's ability to retain recruits. And many of the older officers who joined in a big wave in the late 1970's and early 1980's, at a time when the economy across much of the nation was weak, are retiring. The station's No. 2 commander, Executive Petty Officer Rodney D. Randall, who is 42, will transfer in August to a new posting at the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn. His replacement is 27.
"The younger people, they think you're some old guy just like their parents," Chief Randall said. "It's a balance between trying to keep them going on a straight path and the right path and them thinking that you're trying to take over their lives."
One of the priorities of the station leadership, though, he said, is to make sure one of the few "old guys," in their 30's or 40's, is around at any given time.
"We like to maintain adult supervision," he said.

Potential for Danger on Every Call
The search-and-rescue bell roared to life at 4 a.m. on this particular Saturday, wailing through the ceiling speakers of the communal station house where the duty crew sleeps.
The details were sketchy: something about a rowboat, a man with chest pains, a location somewhere in Stony Brook Harbor.
Andrew Konopacki, 19, a seaman from South River, N.J., ran down the hill, still putting on his shirt in the dark. 
"This is bad," he muttered. "This is very bad."
In the cabin, the four crewmen on this assignment were mostly silent as their boat plowed onto the calm, dark waters, making 25 knots. There had been barely four hours since their return from the last call, just after midnight.
Now, in the pre-dawn gloom, the red instrument lights reflected on their faces and up under their blue Coast Guard caps, casting shadows that -- at least for a few minutes -- made them look gaunt. Their day had begun.
The first pillar of Coast Guard philosophy is that every mission, however seemingly routine, is potentially fraught with danger. People die every year in these waters, and if a seaman serves long enough, he or she will see it firsthand. A stone plaque reminds the crews every time they step out of the station house of the three Eatons Neck seamen who perished while attempting a rescue in 1946 off the coast of Connecticut. 
The second pillar is that every mission is a training mission. That is why Chief Randall avoids going out with his crews, as much as he would sometimes like to, he said.
"If you've got somebody there who you think has the answers, it's easier to ask the question than to think it out," he said. "They ask me: 'What do you think? What do you think?' "
As their commander, he said, it is his job to build self-directed men and women who can think on their feet, and the only way to do that is by authorizing them to make decisions on the spot, right or wrong.
"They need to do it on mornings like this when it's nice and calm and beautiful," he said later that day, after the 4 a.m. case, "because there are times when that alarm goes off and we've got eight-footers out front. They'll need to have the confidence to fall back on." 
For an enlisted seaman, there is also a third and an often unstated pillar of truth about serving in what is known as a "small-boat station," like Eatons Neck, where the main effort involves lightning-fast rescues. It is rooted in an odd ambivalence about the work that firefighters also know: bad news is good. It's what keeps you engaged.
"I know it doesn't sound right, but it gets exciting when people are in trouble," said Josh Doubenmier, 24, a machinery technician third class from Las Vegas.
On this morning, there was to be no resolution of the case -- no rescue, no rowboat, no trouble. By the time the Coast Guard crew reached the approach of Stony Brook Harbor, a dispatcher from the local fire department radioed to say that the department's own small launch had found the two men, and that one was being treated on the beach. So the crew turned back and rode into a dawn that looked strikingly like the one Kensett painted in 1872 -- ethereal and endless, full of grays that faded to blue and rose and finally to white.

From the Surfmen to the Coasties
Kensett reached the height of his powers in capturing the dazzling, hazy luminosity of places like Long Island Sound in the last few years of his life in the 1870's, art experts say. But the period he painted here was also the time when the national Life Saving Service was at the height of its growth.
The Surfmen, as the rescue workers came to be known, were apparently a fairly wild bunch, often mistaken for pirates when they would row furiously toward a damaged or disabled vessel. And, in fact, the line between rescue and plunder was a bit vague: in the earliest days of the station here, farmers around Eatons Neck were induced to volunteer for the hazardous work by an agreement to share the proceeds of what could be salvaged. 
Many descendants of the Surfmen -- the Coast Guard was formed in 1915 when the Life Saving Service was merged with an arm of the United States Treasury's customs enforcement operation -- have a deeply studied cool about what they do. People like Mark DeBonis, who are open enthusiasts for the Coast Guard and its mission, get teased mercilessly. But he said he doesn't care.
Mr. DeBonis, a 30-year-old boatswain's mate second class, left the Coast Guard after one four-year hitch, earned a college degree and worked in computer graphics for Spin magazine, among other places. But after five years out, he came back. He has a Coast Guard tattoo on his shoulder and books about Coast Guard history by his bed. 
"This is one of the few things where you can actually make a difference in someone's life," he said.
The private-sector world that he experienced outside, mostly working in Manhattan, did not have the rewards he wanted.
"I just got sick of it," he said. "I figured as long as I was going to be stressed out, I might as well risk my life so it will at least be worth it."
Mr. Mastrangelo also walks the line between detachment and idealism. He wants to be a police officer someday, like his father, Rocco, who served for 25 years in the Nassau County Police Department, working for many years in the hazardous-substances unit. Rocco Mastrangelo died at age 41, when Bryan was 10, of a lung disease that the family believes was linked to his work. 
"He'd be proud of me now," Bryan said, standing on the back porch of the station. "Got to think of that."
Maya Leonard said her main emotion was homesickness. Ms. Leonard, 20, is a new recruit who has been here only for a few months, and she said she was still trying to adjust. She grew up in California, her family members live near Atlanta now, and she has never been away from them, or her twin sister, Malia, for so long. She had thought that calling them a lot on the phone would help, but it doesn't.
"It's hard," she said, sitting on the station-house porch between her shifts on the radio system.
She unwrapped a package from her brother, a music lover who regularly sends along a stack of compact discs. "It's harder than I thought it would be," she said.
Joe Harrington, 22, a machinery technician from a small town near Lake Tahoe, Calif., said he sometimes felt bad that people mocked the enthusiasts like Mr. DeBonis.
But there have been times, Mr. Harrington said, when a real old-fashioned Coastie -- as such unwavering loyalists are known -- is exactly the kind of leader you want for your team.
"It means that when I'm out there, I can trust him with my life," he said.

In Art's Footsteps
The paintings of the Hudson River School are portraits of the Northeast, captured at a time when 19th-century America was re-examining its ideas about nature. The landscapes helped spur tourism and environmentalism.
This is the fifth of 10 summer articles in which The New York Times returns to the places illuminated by Hudson River School artists. The sixth article, about Lake George, N.Y., will examine the creation of wilderness tourism that Hudson River painters helped promote. When Martin Johnson Heade painted his sparsely populated scene of Lake George in 1862, the lake was already a bustling resort. Today it is a destination, especially in many immigrant communities, that defines the American vacation experience.
 The articles and additional materials are available on the Web:

www.nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Eatons Neck, Long Island," top, painted by John Frederick Kensett in 1872. Today, the beach and the cliff have eroded some along Long Island Sound, but the dangers that come with leisurely pleasure boating still require a watchful ocean-rescue team. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Rescuers from the Eatons Neck station of the United States Life Saving Service in 1884, left, or Surfmen, as they were known. More than a century later, a more high-tech crew from the Coast Guard does similar work. (Edward Carr Collection); Coast Guard crewmen watched a fireworks show last weekend while monitoring boat traffic at Eatons Neck.; With boaters on Long Island Sound, above left, Coast Guard seamen stay ready: above, Jayson Bullock, left, Bryan Mastrangelo, at wheel, and Andrew Konopacki. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); BEACHES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); HISTORY (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (50%) ART; BEACHES; COAST EROSION 

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (92%) COAST GUARD 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; KENSETT, JOHN FREDERICK (1816-72) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) EATONS NECK (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



100 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
ROADWAY EXPRESS EARNINGS FELL 59% IN 2ND QUARTER

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The freight hauler Roadway Express said yesterday that its second-quarter earnings fell 59 percent because of smaller amounts of freight as a result of the economic slowdown. The company said earnings in the third quarter would also be below the level of last year's quarter. Roadway, based in Akron, Ohio, reported second-quarter earnings of $4 million, or 22 cents a share. In the quarter a year ago, earnings were $9.8 million, or 52 cents a share. The average estimate by Thomson Financial/First Call was 18 cents a share. Second-quarter freight levels fell 13.3 percent from a year earlier. The company said it expected third-quarter levels to be 10 percent below those of a year ago.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ROADWAY EXPRESS CO 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL; 

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



101 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Legislature Advances Special Taxing Plan for Arenas 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 3 

 BODY:
A bill authorizing a sports and entertainment tax district to help pay for a $355 million sports arena here has been introduced in the Assembly, a development that some lawmakers said moved the project one step closer to reality.
 The measure, quietly introduced late last week, is identical to the one the Senate passed Thursday in the waning hours of the regular legislative session. 
 As the session was moving toward closing and bills were being hurriedly passed and budget compromises reached, it was thought that negotiations had not progressed sufficiently for an arena bill to emerge in the Assembly. Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco favors the Newark arena, and Assembly Speaker Jack Collins, who is said by his assistants to be seeking a similar economic development project for South Jersey, apparently resolved their disagreements, though, enabling the measure to be introduced without fanfare. 
"I don't know the exact status of negotiations between the governor and the speaker, but this bill is positioned to be accelerated through the process," said Assemblyman Richard Bagger, the measure's sponsor and chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee. 
Tom Wilson, a spokesman for Mr. DiFrancesco, echoed that view, saying: "We are not stalled nor deadlocked, and the speaker is not opposed to the measure. He just wants some balance."
Similarly, Lewis Eisenberg, Mr. DiFrancesco's chief negotiator on the arena project, said the introduction of the bill was a positive development. 
Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., who sponsored the measure in the Senate, predicted that there would be a special session to vote on the bill and amendments by early August.
In the last four months, the arena proposal has moved from being a political long shot with no financing to a piece of legislation that quieted some of the opposition from Bergen County, which stands to lose Continental Arena in the Meadowlands as the home of the New Jersey Nets and New Jersey Devils. That hurdle was overcome after Mr. DiFrancesco proposed creating a family sports and entertainment village as a replacement for the arena.
The legislation now introduced in the Assembly and the version approved by the Senate last week would authorize the creation of a special sports and entertainment taxing district in the area of the proposed 18,500-seat Newark arena. It would also create a similar district in the area of the proposed Meadowlands sports development to help private developers finance the projects.
Under the plan, Mr. Kyrillos said, the state sales tax would be standardized at 6 percent in both districts, and half of it and a new hotel tax would be used to pay off privately issued bonds. 
With the financing in place and Bergen County fears addressed, Mr. Collins's quiet insistence on some similar type of aid for the southern part of the state appears to be the final hurdle.
Mr. Collins represents parts of Salem, Gloucester and Cumberland Counties, and, according to some officials close to the negotiations, has suggested a similar taxing district in his area for an unspecified project. Officials said his suggestions included a rowing center for crew races on the Cooper River near Camden, a zoo in the southern part of the state, and an athletic complex on the campus of Rowan College in Glassboro. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); APPROVALS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (68%); BOND ISSUES (63%) STADIUMS AND ARENAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

PERSON: THOMAS J WILSON (51%) SMOTHERS, RONALD; BAGGER, RICHARD (ASSEMBLYMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



102 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Web Sales of Airline Tickets Are Making Hefty Advances 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
The bargains available to shoppers on the Internet are becoming scarce in all but one place: the sky.
 More than almost any other industry, airlines are still pushing their customers to buy online and are willing to reward them for doing so. Last week, for example, Delta started a fare sale, matched by other airlines including American and America West, that offered an extra 20 percent discount for using its Web site. Other airlines and online travel agency sites have lured passengers with discounts, last-minute specials and bonus miles. 
 This year, travelers will spend $14 billion buying tickets on the Internet, amounting to 14 percent of their total airline spending, according to PhoCusWright, a consulting firm in Sherman, Conn. That share is up from 9 percent last year, despite some occasional problems with online bookings. 
No other major consumer industry has had such a significant shift, and it is not slowing. Southwest Airlines already makes 30 percent of its sales online, and the other major airlines aspire to reach that level the next few years.
In other industries, established companies are pulling people and money away from their Internet operations, as their fear of being "Amazoned" by start-ups has subsided. The Nasdaq market's crash has dashed the companies' dreams of minting gold by taking their online units public. Consumers, in turn, are seeing fewer, less elaborate sites, with higher prices.
But in these tough times, the Internet is one of the few bright spots for the airlines, which face rising costs from new labor contracts just as business travel has started to plunge.
"We spend $1.7 billion a year on distribution costs," like travel agent commissions and fees for reservation systems, said Vincent Caminiti, senior vice president for electronic business at Delta Air Lines. "The single best way to mitigate those costs is to drive people from offline to online." 
Delta, he said, sold 13 percent of its tickets online last year and as a result saved $45 million in commissions and fees. By 2003, it hopes to sell 30 percent of its tickets online and, as efficiencies increase, save $150 million.
In addition to reaping special discounts, travelers are embracing the Internet because the airline Web sites and online travel agents like Expedia and Travelocity are proving to be an effective way to compare myriad fares and schedules and hunt for bargains.
And there are entirely new ways to buy, like through Priceline.com, which sells tickets cheaply to those willing to endure heavy restrictions and uncertainty about which airline they will be flying and exactly when. The airlines can use such sites as their outlet malls, where they can mark down unsold seats safe from the view of other customers.
The savings can be substantial. A recent check of advance purchase, round-trip fares between Boston and Los Angeles showed that the lowest published fare on a major airline was $403. But nonstop fares were available on the airlines' own sites for $309 to $325. Priceline said it would sell the same route, with restrictions and possible connecting flights, for $199.
Even investors are doing better with online travel companies than with most other Internet stocks. Expedia and Travelocity, the two largest online travel agencies, are among the few dot-coms that are healthy, growing and even profitable. Accordingly, their shares have actually risen this year, with Travelocity nearly tripling to $44.11, and Expedia more than tripling to $35.40.
The airlines have been so eager to exploit the Internet that they have pumped an estimated $145 million into Orbitz, a new online travel agency that opened last month to great fanfare and widespread service glitches. Orbitz has already raised protests from both consumer groups and rivals who say it will be a platform for collusion and price fixing, an accusation that Orbitz rejects.
The biggest losers in all this are likely to be local travel agencies, which have already been squeezed by cutbacks in airline commissions. "Being a travel agent these days is more a hobby than a profit-making business," said Jeffrey G. Katz, the chief executive of Orbitz and former chief executive of Swissair.
Some travel agents counter that they still can thrive by imposing fees to book tickets and specializing in more complex itineraries. 
"The only business we've lost to the Internet is business we didn't want anyway, people who want to go check every departure to save $5 on an airline ticket," said Arden Lisnek, a partner in Fisher Travel in Southfield, Mich. "The people who deal with us want personalized service and expertise." 
Just as one-third of bank customers still prefer human tellers to automated teller machines, airlines are convinced that a significant number of travelers will still use travel agents, although fewer than in the past. But the number who want to go online is greater than in nearly any other industry. 
The stock brokerage industry is perhaps another, but the growth of online trading has slowed and major brokerage firms, like Merrill Lynch, have seen little benefit from such trading.
In computers, direct sellers like Dell Computer have lowered costs by shifting sales online, but manufacturers, like Compaq Computer, that sell through retailers have found the Internet to be of little benefit.
As Scott Praven, president of United Networks, the Internet subsidiary of United Airlines, sums it up, "The Internet was invented for travel." 
Indeed, the elaborate computer reservation systems like Sabre and Worldspan built to serve travel agents meant that most airline information was already in digital form, ready to adapt to the Internet. "We were doing e-commerce before the word was invented," said Craig S. Kreeger, a vice president for sales at America Online. "We took the infrastructure we had for travel agencies and gave it to consumers."
The airlines have financial incentives to keep putting nifty new features on their Web sites. Every time someone goes to their sites to see if a flight is on time or to redeem a frequent-flier award, an airline can avoid answering a phone call at the cost of several dollars. 
And even people who are afraid to type in their credit cards and buy tickets online are using the Internet to research fares before calling, saving the airlines money.
"People know what they want," Mr. Caminiti said. "They call us and say, 'I saw it on the Internet; now book it for me.' " At Delta, he said, 20 percent of phone calls now result in a sale, up from 16 percent last year.
For many of the same reasons, the Internet is a growing channel for other parts of the travel industry. This year, PhoCusWright estimates that 6 percent of hotel bookings, 15 percent of car rentals and 3 percent of cruises and vacation packages will be sold online. 
Roughly half of travel industry bookings are made on the Web sites run by the airlines and other travel suppliers. And half are at the travel agency sites. But PhoCusWright estimates that the big travel agency sites are growing faster as consumers see value in comparison shopping.
One of the main reasons for the airlines' controversial investment in Orbitz is to counter the growing power of Travelocity and Expedia, which have 60 percent of the online travel agency market. 
"For the airlines, the only thing worse than 30,000 travel agencies is two travel agencies," said Philip Wolf, the chief executive of PhoCusWright. "Travelocity and Expedia could emerge with such market share they could force the airlines to discount more than they want to." Indeed, both of those companies have started to cut special deals with airlines beyond their published fares.
Orbitz hopes to beat its competition by offering travelers access to discount fares that until now have been available only at the airlines' own sites. The other online travel agencies, backed by some consumer groups, argue that this is unfair competition. Orbitz contends that it deserves to offer the lower fares because it has developed technology to, ultimately, sell tickets without using any of the computer reservation systems, which charge the airlines $12 to $15 a ticket.
But first, Orbitz will have to tame the technology it has. When it began last month, the site sometimes lost track of customers' reservations, telephone calls went unanswered and some e-mail confirmations of tickets went out well after the planes took off. Orbitz says it has fixed many of these glitches already.
Priceline, too, has had a spotty reputation for service, and disastrous attempts to expand into businesses other than travel. But it has found a big niche for itself in a short period. Last year, it sold $1.2 billion worth of airline tickets and hotel rooms, making it the nation's 11th largest travel agency. 
Priceline's inconveniences and rigid rules, with tickets not refundable or even changeable, are designed to scare off most business travelers and more demanding leisure travelers. But there are still ready buyers for seats that would otherwise go empty. Roughly 2 percent of the airline tickets in the country are now sold by Priceline and other sites that offer "opaque" tickets, in which buyers can choose only the dates, but usually not times, airlines or connections.
Among airlines like American, which was not an early participant, sites like Priceline have won a growing allegiance. "I think we're attracting people who would not otherwise travel," Mr. Kreeger said.
A number of sites say that the economic slowdown and resulting falloff in business travel is actually accelerating the shift to sales online. "When there are empty airplane seats and empty hotel beds, the suppliers go to partners who can deliver customers," said Richard Barton, chief executive of Expedia. "We've benefited from that."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Wednesday about the growth of online travel reservations misstated the company affiliation for an executive who noted that the elaborate computer systems built to serve travel agents eased the way for airlines to adapt to the Internet. Craig S. Kreeger is a vice president for sales at American Airlines, not America Online.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Click and Go"Travelers these days find an array of some of the most powerful and sophisticated Web sites offering bountiful information, options and special deals. A trip can be booked in a snap, but it may take hours to scour the Web for all the best deals. Below are some of the most popular sites, and a sampling of their best fares for one route -- Boston to Los Angeles -- for travel from July 13-July 20, checked on June 27, during a fare sale. AIRLINE SITESMost airlines now let travelers look up schedules, buy tickets and see their frequent-flier balances. Many now will page fliers if their flight will be late. Most offer e-mail lists for last-minute specials and special fares, and bonuses not available from travel agents. During the fare sale that began last week, many offered additional discounts for purchase at their sites. AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): American (AA.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $312 (nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Discount fare lower than offered on Orbitz AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): Continental (Continental.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $400 (one stop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): 1,000 bonus miles; some fares have additional discounts AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): Delta (Delta.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $309.50 (nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): 1,000 bonus miles; some fares have additional discounts AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): Northwest (NWA.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $509 (one stop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): 1,000 bonus miles; some fares have additional discounts AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): Southwest* (Southwest.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $463 (one stop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Double frequent-flier credit AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): United (United.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $325 (nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): 1,000 bonus miles AIRLINE (WEB ADDRESS): U S Airways (USAir.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (STOPS): $406 (one stop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): 1,000 bonus miles *Flight is from Providence to Los Angeles ONLINE TRAVEL AGENCIES AND OUTLETSLike corner agencies, these generally allow travelers to compare fares from multiple airlines and make hotel and car reservations as well. Increasingly, these sites have privately negotiated fares. The lowest price is often a blind fare for which the flier doesn(TM)t know the airline or the time until after buying the ticket. ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Cheap Tickets (Cheaptickets.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $272 (blind airline; nonstop, time specified); $394 (America West; one stop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Offers a mix of bargain fares with a range of terms and restrictions ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Expedia (Expedia.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $222 (blind airline and time; possible connection); $324 (Sun Country; one stop); $403 (American or United; nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Full-service agency with wide range of special deals and blind fares. ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Hotwire (Hotwire.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $212 (blind; possible connection)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Only offers blind fares ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Orbitz (Orbitz.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $309 (Delta; nonstop); $325 (United; nonstop); $352 (American; nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Offers many fares that the airlines make available on their own sites but not to other travel agencies ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Priceline (Priceline.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $199 (Lowest bid accepted; including taxes; blind airline and time)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Customer names price. If offer is accepted, airline and time are revealed after purchase ONLINE AGENCY (WEB ADDRESS): Travelocity (Travelocity.com)BOSTON-TO-LOS ANGELES FARE (AIRLINE; STOPS): $324 (Sun Country; one stop); $404 (American or United; nonstop); $497 (Delta; nonstop)COMMENT (REFERS TO SITE, NOT SPECIFIC FARE): Full-service agency with some negotiated fares Graph: "Booking Online"The percentage of airline travel reservations made online has steadily increased the last few years and is projected to be $14.2 billion this year. Graphs shows the percentages of all air travel reservations made online. 1998: 2%1999: 5%2000: 9%2001: 14% (Source: PhoCusWright)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AIR FARES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); WEB SITES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); COMMISSION PAY (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); PRICELINE.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (74%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



103 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Increased in June, Despite Decreases at Ford and G.M. 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
Auto sales last month rose 0.3 percent from June last year, the first monthly increase over 2000's record pace. The increase surpassed the expectations of analysts, who continued to be surprised by the strength of auto sales despite the sluggish economy. Foreign automakers, however, are still reaping most of the rewards. 
 Ford Motor and General Motors both reported lower overall sales compared with June of last year, while the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler reported a 1 percent sales increase over June 2000 after months of declines. 
 In contrast, Toyota, Honda and BMW reported big increases in sales in the United States. Part of the reason is that companies like Toyota and Honda are now aggressively competing for business in the market for sport utility vehicles, once the exclusive domain of domestic automakers.
Auto sales are a closely watched economic indicator because they provide a barometer early in the month for consumer demand and because they account for a significant portion of the country's production.
The auto industry posted record sales of 17.8 million vehicles in the United States last year, but a year with sales of more than 16 million is generally considered strong. For June, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales was 17 million vehicles, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, a data service in Southfield, Mich.
"The question is why we continue to see this pace against the backdrop of the dour news coming out about the direction of the economy," said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s general director of global market and industry analysis. 
"Over the last few months, a number of clear pluses have developed for the industry," he added, "the falloff in energy prices, the aggressiveness of the Fed trying to stimulate demand through interest rate cuts, and certainly the tax relief that is forthcoming in the third quarter."
The industry, however, is also offering an increasing number of incentives, and many analysts say they believe that while rebates and discounts may keep the pace of sales healthy, they will cut into profits. It will also be difficult for Ford and G.M. to stop using incentives, analysts said, because they are already losing market share to their foreign competitors. 
Ford's total sales fell 6.6 percent compared with June a year ago, despite strong sales of its Explorer sport utility vehicle. Despite the dispute between Ford and Bridgestone/ Firestone over responsibility for the vehicles' rollover problems, Ford sold 42,833 Explorers, more than in any previous month. 
One reason is that Ford began offering its own employees and suppliers a $1,000 discount on Explorers. 
"You'd be surprised what that can do to the numbers," said Rod Lache, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. "They needed some good news."
"It's costing so much to keep those numbers going that the profitability is not going to fall to the bottom line," he added. 
At Ford, sales of light trucks, which include S.U.V.'s, minivans and pickups, were essentially flat, while car sales fell 15.5 percent from the previous June. G.M. reported an overall sales drop of 3.2 percent from June 2000. Car sales fell 13.5 percent from last June, while sales of light trucks rose 8.6 percent. 
In contrast, Toyota had a 19.8 percent increase in sales in the United States, driven partly by strong sales of its S.U.V's and pickup trucks. At BMW, sales increased 32 percent from June of a year ago, and sales increased 7 percent at Honda.
"Sales over all have been pretty good," said Phillip Hartz, a spokesman for the UnitedAuto Group, a company that owns more than 100 dealerships in 19 states, selling brands from most of the major automakers. 
"Obviously, the significant level of Fed activity has made a huge difference," he added. "Also, manufacturers have held the line on pricing, either with rebates or no new increases," he said. "Cars are affordable."
The nation's gross domestic product, the market value of all goods and services produced, grew by 1.2 percent in the first quarter, according to a recent Commerce Department estimate. That is well short of the 4.8 percent G.D.P. growth in the first quarter last year. That growth slowed to 1 percent in the second quarter, according to a survey of analysts' estimates conducted by the Blue Chip Economic Indicators newsletter.
Even so, auto sales have been strong. General Motors said it would stick to its plan to produce more than 1.2 million vehicles in the third quarter, down about 6.4 percent from the third quarter last year, and Ford maintained its plan to produce 930,000 vehicles. 
"I was expecting a much deeper downturn when we hit February and March," said Larry Fette, who owns a Ford and Kia dealership in Clifton, N.J. 
"I didn't expect the storm to be huge, but I didn't expect things to be this good either."
It helps that Mr. Fette's customers normally buy about four times as many trucks as they buy cars. The Explorer and the Escape, both S.U.V.'s, are among his most popular sellers. 
"Everybody's got an S.U.V.," said Mr. Fette. "I don't know what would happen if people stopped buying S.U.V.'s."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in June"U.S. vehicle sales rose 0.3 percent in June, the first increase since September. Toyota Motor sales were up 20 percent from last year, while auto sales for Ford Motor and General Motors were down. ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks sold in the U.S., seasonally adjusted. Graph shows figures for cars, light trucks: minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups from December 1999-January 2001. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the U.S. Cars2001: 811,1302000: 840,889CHANGE*: +4.55 Light trucks2001: 808,1772000: 773,024CHANGE*: +0.33 Total2001: 1,619,3072000: 1,613,913CHANGE*: -3.54% CAR SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 218,581CHANGE*: -13.47%MARKET SHARE: 27.0% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 149,650CHANGE*: -15.47MARKET SHARE: 18.5 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 87,758CHANGE*: + 9.22MARKET SHARE: 10.8 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 72,539CHANGE*: + 7.26MARKET SHARE: 8.9 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 85,652CHANGE*: + 7.59MARKET SHARE: 10.6 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 37,152CHANGE*: + 2.81MARKET SHARE: 4.6 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe top-selling vehicles in the U.S. and change from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 91,481CHANGE: +8.1% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 52,247CHANGE: +4.1 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 42,833CHANGE: +2.5 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 39,113CHANGE: -9.8 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 37,546CHANGE: +9.5 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 35,479CHANGE: +5.3 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 33,776CHANGE: +9.3 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 30,269CHANGE: -14.3 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 27,370CHANGE: +19.1 Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 25,013CHANGE: +0.2 Ford RangerNUMBER SOLD: 24,887CHANGE: -22.5 Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 23,382CHANGE: +17.4 LIGHT TRUCK SALESCompanies listed were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 2000. FordNUMBER SOLD: 236,750CHANGE*:MARKET SHARE: 29.29 G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 233,524CHANGE*: +9.29MARKET SHARE: 28.90 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 163,417CHANGE*: -1.50MARKET SHARE: 20.22 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 70,875CHANGE*: +36.26MARKET SHARE: 8.77 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 26,610CHANGE*: -14.12MARKET SHARE: 3.29 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 26,468CHANGE*: +5.01MARKET SHARE: 3.28 (Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank) *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Rover salesSIncludes$ Mercedes-Benz sales (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SALES REBATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (51%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 5108 (TSE) (51%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (51%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



104 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Europe Ends Bid by G.E. For Honeywell 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS with PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, July 3 

 BODY:
As Europe's chief antitrust regulator bristled at what he called "political interference" from the United States, the European Commission today formally blocked General Electric's proposed $45 billion takeover of Honeywell International.
 The decision was already a foregone conclusion after negotiations broke off on Friday between G.E. and European officials. But the decision was a milestone, not only because European officials blocked a deal between two American companies but because United States antitrust regulators had made the opposite ruling. 
 As corporate executives consider the implications of General Electric's defeat, many analysts assert that it would be a mistake to infer that European and American antitrust enforcement practices are headed in opposite directions. Both sides, they say, remain anchored to similar goals of enhancing competition and keeping markets open. Some say there is a difference in emphasis, with European regulators concentrating first on whether a merger will hurt business competition, while those in the United States focus initially on whether it will hurt consumers. But others say the distinction is diminishing. 
A growing number of experts worry that Mario Monti, the European commissioner in charge of competition, has introduced a new dimension of unpredictability and uncertainty by invoking novel theories that have rarely been used elsewhere. 
In the G.E. case, Mr. Monti raised the specter of "portfolio effects" -- the danger that G.E. could use Honeywell's strength in avionics equipment to expand its reach in aircraft engines. In particular, regulators worried that GE Capital Aviation Services, the largest aircraft-leasing company, would buy only Honeywell aerospace products, just as it chiefly buys G.E. jet engines.
Two years ago, Mr. Monti invoked the threat of "collective dominance" to block a merger between two British travel agencies, asserting that a handful of companies would control the industry and thwart competition. More recently, he rejected the proposed merger between WorldCom and Sprint on the grounds that the combined company could dictate prices in Europe for Internet access.
The United States Justice Department also sued to block the WorldCom-Sprint deal. But its case was based primarily on the companies' huge share of the American long-distance telephone market, as well as a significant presence in the Internet access business.
WorldCom and one of the British travel agencies have appealed Mr. Monti's verdicts, although no decision has been reached. And G.E. repeated its complaint today that Mr. Monti's objections were unlike any it had encountered anywhere else.
"The commission took a fundamentally different approach to competitive issues than its counterparts in the U.S., Canada and nearly a dozen other jurisdictions," the company said in a statement.
Peter Alexiadis, a competition lawyer in Brussels at Squire Sanders & Dempsey, said Mr. Monti's approach was ripe for testing. "If G.E. appeals, this will bring to three the number of cases characterized by controversial theories," Mr. Alexiadis said today.
Mr. Monti brushed aside criticisms today. "This was by no means a U.S. versus E.U. case," he said. "Yes, two American companies wanted to merge. But their nationality was irrelevant."
Alluding to recent comments by President Bush, who expressed dismay that the deal might be blocked, Mr. Monti said he was "distinctly unimpressed by political pressure."
Yet for all the drama of Mr. Monti's stand against G.E. and its chief executive, John F. Welch Jr., antitrust experts say the case may prove to be the exception rather than the rule in trans-Atlantic mergers.
"I think this is a fairly unique transaction based on a fairly unique theory," said Mark Powell, an antitrust lawyer in Brussels at White & Case. "I do not think we are going to see a pattern of transactions that are blocked in one jurisdiction and approved in another."
European and American antitrust lawyers say the European approaches are, if anything, increasingly similar to those in the United States. The European Commission has repeatedly attacked the long-cherished European idea of "national champions" -- big companies in key areas like banking or telecommunications -- and has hammered away at subsidies and special preferences that kept such companies strong.
Both Mr. Monti and his predecessor, Karel van Miert, have labored mightily to invoke rigorous economic analysis along many of the same lines used in the United States.
"Fundamentally, there isn't a real difference in viewpoint," said Wernhard Moschel, a longtime adviser to the German government on antitrust issues and a professor of law at the University of Tubingen. "In Europe, the decisive question is whether a merger will create or strengthen a position of market dominance. In the U.S., the question is whether a merger will substantially reduce competition. In practice, there is not that much difference," he said.
As negotiations over the General Electric case reached an impasse, some experts asserted that European officials were more focused on concerns raised by competitors than on the effect on consumers.
European officials have conceded that the merger with Honeywell might have initially led to lower prices for aircraft parts. But listening to adamant opposition raised by rivals like United Technologies and Rolls-Royce, Mr. Monti concluded that G.E.'s dominance would squeeze out competitors and ultimately lead to higher prices.
That theory was not persuasive to the United States Justice Department's antitrust division, which approved the deal in March.
"The European Union's process offers a lot more credence to competitors," said Edward Kee, a management consultant in Washington for the PA Consulting Group, which is based in London. "In the U.S., they listen to competitors but don't give them as much weight."
But other antitrust experts are skeptical about such distinctions. "It might have been true at one time, and indeed there is case law to prove it," said Chris Norall, a lawyer in Brussels at Morrison & Foerster. "But I think it is a lot harder to say that today."
It does seem clear that Mr. Monti has not been motivated by a desire to protect European companies from American rivals. United Technologies, an American company, waged one of the heaviest lobbying campaigns against the G.E. deal.
And just a few months ago, Mr. Monti approved the huge and potentially much more sensitive merger between Time Warner and America Online, and settled for extremely modest concessions.
European companies have felt much more of the brunt of Mr. Monti's verdicts. He has railed at European power companies, demanding major divestitures before approving the merger of two major German utilities into what is now E.on.
Bertelsmann, the huge German media conglomerate, recently abandoned efforts to acquire EMI, the British music producer, because of concerns raised by Mr. Monti. And before that, Mr. Monti derailed a proposed merger between the Swedish truck makers Volvo and Scania.
But some critics say Mr. Monti, a former professor of economics, can be baffling. In his investigation into America Online, Mr. Monti's staff originally raised concerns that the merger with Time Warner might allow it to monopolize broadband networks in Europe.
But while Time Warner did have vast broadband networks in the United States, neither it nor America Online had significant networks in Europe. Mr. Monti later dropped that concern and focused primarily on the issue of distributing music over the Internet.
In the G.E. case, Mr. Monti raised initial objections about "bundling," the possibility that G.E. would use Honeywell's avionics business to strengthen its dominance in engines for large aircraft.
But as the process evolved, Mr. Monti's focus shifted to GE Capital Aviation Services, or Gecas.
In Strausbourg today, Mr. Monti made no mention of bundling in outlining his reasons for rejecting the G.E. case. But he also denied that he had changed course midway through the process.
"The role of bundling is fairly limited in our assessment of the case," he acknowledged. "But it is wrong to say that the commission moved from being concerned about bundling to focusing on the vertical effects of Gecas."
Regardless of how Mr. Monti reached his decision, antitrust experts say, he was not about to be budged once he had made up his own mind. That may have led to a crucial miscalculation by G.E. and Mr. Welch, who angered Mr. Monti two weeks ago by announcing that a deal could probably not be reached.
Mr. Monti appears to have viewed the move as lobbying through the media, and G.E. did return to the negotiating table last week with new but equally unacceptable proposals for a compromise. Mr. Monti became even more incensed when President Bush spoke out and the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, said a rejection of the deal would be "off the wall."
"The thing you have to remember about Monti is that he always tries to stay completely independent," said Josef Tobien, a lawyer specializing in takeover law at the Frankfurt office of Weil, Gotschal & Manges. "He does not want to be part of any political strategies."
Mr. Monti tried to extend an olive branch to American antitrust officials.
"It is one of my key political priorities to enhance international cooperation in antitrust, and that means first the bilateral cooperation with the U.S.," he said. 
In response to the European decision, Charles A. James, United States assistant attorney general for antitrust, issued a statement in Washington calling for a more closely aligned stance on antitrust issues.
"Clear and longstanding U.S. antitrust policy holds that the antitrust laws protect competition, not competitors," the statement said. "Today's E.U. decision reflects a significant point of divergence."
"This matter points to the continuing need for consultation to move toward greater policy convergence," it concluded.
Mr. Monti also made a nod to Mr. Welch. "The charismatic Mr. Welch isn't just an American icon. He is a world icon," he said. "I have not been insensitive to his charisma, but my job is to be sensitive to consumers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mario Monti, European commissioner in charge of competition, discusses his panel's action. (Reuters)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (69%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (69%); LEASING INDUSTRY (64%); AVIONICS (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (63%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (61%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); SQUIRE SANDERS (US) LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (95%); HON (LSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; MELLER, PAUL; MONTI, MARIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



105 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Parts of Free Trade Pact Are Made Public 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
The draft text of parts of the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas agreement was made public yesterday, giving the first official view of negotiations to create a trade area stretching from the Arctic circle to the tip of South America. 
 Although it is coming nearly two months later than expected, the release of nine chapters of the agreement fulfills a promise made by the leaders of the 34 democratic nations of the Western Hemisphere who gathered at the Summit of the Americas in April. 
 At the meeting, the leaders told thousands of protesters that the draft was being translated into the four official languages of the hemisphere -- English, French, Portuguese and Spanish -- and would be available as soon as the translations were completed, probably within a few days. 
Although a hemispherewide trade area could not be set up until 2005 at the earliest, many unions, environmental groups and public interest advocates throughout the hemisphere have expressed concern over the scale of the agreement and the effect its transnational regulations would have on national sovereignty. 
In particular, the groups have complained about the possible inclusion of a mechanism to resolve investor disputes in which arbitration panels would settle conflicts in secret sessions and without public participation. 
The draft of the agreement posted yesterday on the official Free Trade Area of the Americas Web site (www.ftaa-alca.org) included that contested dispute resolution mechanism in its chapter on investments. 
The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, said publishing the draft text well in advance of the completion of the negotiations would make creating the trade area more transparent, and he said he hoped it would also increase support for the initiative. 
In a statement, Mr. Zoellick called release of the documents an "effort to make international trade and its economic and social benefits more understandable to the public."
But Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch, complained that the documents did not include important information like indicating the positions of each country on the provisions of the agreement. 
"What they released is a scrubbed and sanitized version of the text," Ms. Wallach said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (78%) ZOELLICK, ROBERT B (TRADE REPR); DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); ARCTIC (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



106 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: As Changeable as the Weather 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 3 

 BODY:
Anyone interested in clearly understanding Japan's position on the Kyoto Protocol on global warming would search in vain through Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's statements over the last several days, during his first official overseas trip.
 Mr. Koizumi's extraordinary popularity at home was built in part from his straight-shooter style -- which differs significantly from that of recent predecessors, who were more often given to endless hedging. But from Washington to London to Paris, sometimes on the same day and within the same city, his position on what is probably the most ambitious international environmental agreement seemed to shift by the hour or the audience. 
 Whether deliberate or accidental, Mr. Koizumi's ambiguity appears to stem from a variety of causes. 
To begin with, this is his first experience on the world stage.
Moreover the protocol -- whose name comes from Japan's ancient capital, where its terms were hammered out nearly four years ago after a decade of arduous talks -- represents a rare opportunity for Japan to take the pivotal position on an issue of major international importance. But because Japan has had little experience wielding such influence, it finds itself stuck between firmly formed and opposing schools of thought: those of the European Union and the United States.
Japan's self-image as a world power has become increasingly tied to environmental issues, which are loosely linked in the minds of the public with the country's postwar vocation as a kinder, gentler power, constitutionally at peace and devoted to assisting the development of poorer nations. 
With important parliamentary elections scheduled for July 29, many opposition candidates, and even some members of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, have turned support for the Kyoto Protocol and other environmental issues into campaign themes. Many newspaper editorials have also supported ratification of the protocol.
At the same time, Japan is as firmly attached to the United States -- economically, diplomatically and in security terms -- as perhaps any country. Going against its ally on a major issue like carbon emissions does not come naturally for Tokyo.
As a new, stirringly reformist prime minister, Mr. Koizumi has yet another important consideration: the need for support from Washington for his sweeping but risky economic restructuring. Mr. Bush gave Mr. Koizumi's plans a strong endorsement, which could prove useful for warding off critics at home.
Those strong crosswinds have brought an extraordinary sequence of shifts and nuance and near contradictions from the Japanese leader about the agreement, which establishes a timetable for strictly limiting the carbon emissions of industrial nations.
After the talks last weekend between Mr. Koizumi and President Bush at Camp David, Md., the Bush administration, which has rejected the protocol as "fatally flawed," all but claimed that it was indeed dead. 
In support of that view, administration officials cited Mr. Koizumi's supposed pledge not to ratify the protocol without Washington -- a decision that would leave the accord short of the minimum number of countries needed for it to take effect.
"When Japanese politicians go to the United States, they are just engulfed by the American atmosphere, and when they go to places like Camp David they forget their original positions and are often overwhelmed by the agenda of the American side" said Kaoru Okano, a political scientist and former leader of Meiji University. "When we saw Koizumi playing baseball with Mr. Bush, we knew he was totally immersed in the American environment."
But while still in Washington, Mr. Koizumi spoke of respecting the "spirit" of the protocol. And by the time he reached London, where support for the protocol is strong (as it is throughout Europe), Mr. Koizumi's language had become more affirmative still. Speaking to reporters there on Monday, he said he would "continue to talk to the Americans so that the Kyoto Protocol becomes an effective document."
Even that, however, was not the final word. Mr. Koizumi appeared to take another step backward on Monday, contradicting his own government's chief spokesman, when he denied that he had discussed possible revisions to the protocol with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain that might make it acceptable to the United States. 
The distance Mr. Koizumi has traveled in his various statements is all the greater when one considers that just last month, speaking before Parliament, he described Mr. Bush's opposition to the protocol as deplorable. During a photo session in Washington on Saturday, though, Mr. Koizumi praised Mr. Bush as someone who is "enthusiastic about environmental issues."
Perhaps reflecting that confusion, officials at Japan's environmental agency did not return telephone calls today seeking an explanation.
Mr. Koizumi may be trying to avoid making a firm decision now, which will disappoint many at home and abroad. But for now his decision-making process seems to be subordinating strictly environmental considerations to the one issue upon which the prime minister has staked his political fortunes: economic reform.
"Koizumi's priority has been economic and structural reform," said Yuuri Onodera, an official with Friends of the Earth Japan. "The environment remains a relatively low priority in his blueprint. This is the first global environmental issue he has tackled, and he has not decided what approach to take.
"But the most important reason for his present position is that he needs the Bush administration's wholehearted support for his economic reforms." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); TRENDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) WEATHER; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GLOBAL WARMING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



107 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Mets and Yankees Asking State For $300 Million in Transit Work 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Yankees and the Mets are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in highway and transit improvements from the state as part of their efforts to build new stadiums in the Bronx and Queens.
 Officials from both teams have been negotiating with the Pataki administration in recent weeks for a total of about $300 million in improvements for subway stations and highway ramps. 
 Although Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been saying for months that after more than four years he is finally close to a deal to keep the Yankees in the Bronx and to build new homes for the city's baseball clubs, the teams began talks with the state only last month.
Gov. George E. Pataki, who shares the mayor's enthusiasm for the projects, has long insisted that he is opposed to using taxpayer money to build stadiums for privately owned teams, but he has said he would be willing to help with transportation improvements. 
There has been speculation that a deal to build the stadiums would be announced either today, coinciding with George M. Steinbrenner's birthday, or during the break for baseball's All-Star game, which is Tuesday. According to people who have been briefed on the talks with the state, though, a resolution could take longer than that.
Mets officials, who disclosed plans for a domed 45,000-seat stadium three years ago, are asking for what one state official estimated was about $100 million in roadwork and renovations to the existing Shea Stadium subway station on the No. 7 line. The new stadium would be built in the parking lot next to the present stadium, the team's home for 37 years.
The Yankees have talked to state officials recently about plans to build a new stadium in a public park just north of the existing stadium in the Bronx. The state official estimated that the team's request for a Metro-North train station, parking garages and various highway improvements would cost about $200 million.
"The only talks that have taken place with the state are about infrastructure needs for Yankee Stadium and the new Shea," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. "We're not in the business of building stadiums with taxpayer money. If infrastructure improvements would help the stadiums and the general public, that's what we'll do."
According to a city official and a team official, the Giuliani administration is proposing to split the cost of the stadiums with the teams. Under the plan, the city would contribute $400 million in cash toward each stadium and issue tax-exempt bonds. The teams, however, would be responsible for making the annual payments on the bonds -- the equivalent of $400 million -- with revenue from ticket sales, naming rights, advertising and parking.
The Giuliani administration has met continually with the teams on plans for two new stadiums, which would cost about $800 million each, according to executives on both sides of the bargaining table. The state's estimated $300 million in related transportation projects would put the total price tag at nearly $2 billion.
But for all the fanfare, Mayor Giuliani's periodic pronouncements have puzzled state officials, local politicians and urban policy analysts. As the end of Mr. Giuliani's second term approaches, critics say there is little that he can do to make the proposal a reality. 
The projects would arouse a lengthy discussion and almost certainly require a variety of approvals by both the Pataki administration and the City Council, since the plans involve issuing bonds, leasing park land and spending more than $1.5 billion. 
The Pataki administration, which has been at odds with the mayor on economic development issues, resisted Mr. Giuliani's call earlier this year for the state to pay for a third of the cost of building the stadiums. It was only after the city realized that the state would not help with the stadiums themselves that the teams opened negotiations with the state on access.
At least one mayoral candidate, Mark Green, has said he would not put public money into the stadiums, raising the question of whether the next mayor would be bound by Mr. Giuliani's deals.
Although the mayor's plan may amount to wishful thinking, Robert Berne, a vice president of New York University and an expert in municipal finance, said that Mr. Giuliani could chisel his name into the public imagination if he's successful. He would like to be known as the mayor who kept the Yankees in the Bronx, who completed two minor league baseball stadiums and created a plan for two new stadiums for two of the most valuable teams in baseball. 
"Giuliani wants to go on record as the one who provided a mechanism for two new stadiums and leave it to others to try and stop it," Mr. Berne said. "Stopping the project would require an explicit veto, which puts a bigger political burden on the new mayor. And the stadiums would always be seen as Giuliani's idea."
The baseball clubs and the Giuliani administration are betting that they have defused much of the opposition to stadium deals by abandoning plans by the mayor and Mr. Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, to move the team from its home in the Bronx to the West Side of Manhattan.
Publicly, the Yankees organization continues to say that it is exploring its options, staying in the Bronx or moving to Manhattan or New Jersey.
"The Yankees retain their three options," said Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for the team and a part owner. "No decision has been made. The Yankees are negotiating in good faith. I will not discuss any of the details currently unfolding."
Those options may no longer exist. Jerry I. Speyer, a developer and another part owner of the Yankees, told a private group of developers in December that the team had given up on the proposal to move to the West Side. Lewis Eisenberg, chief negotiator with professional teams for Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco of New Jersey, said, "I have had no discussions concerning the New York Yankees baseball team."
According to executives involved in the discussions, the Yankees are looking at plans to build a new ballpark next to the existing stadium, in Macombs Dam Park. Under that plan, the city would seek to offset criticism by building a new park nearby. 
The Yankees want the state to build a new Metro-North station, spruce up the local subway stations and build new highway ramps and lanes for the Major Deegan Expressway and Harlem River Drive so fans can arrive and leave faster. 
Fred Wilpon, the principal owner of the Mets, announced his plans for a new stadium next door to Shea in 1998, and he has been waiting for the Yankees proposal to jell ever since. The Mets proposal calls for a stadium with a retractable roof, 78 luxury suites and high-price club seats. According to a state official, the team wants the state to renovate the nearby subway stations and to reconfigure the highway ramps.
So far state officials have resisted agreeing to build multilevel parking garages for either team unless they are convinced that the garages will be used by more than baseball fans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (91%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TICKET SALES (65%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (77%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001 



108 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Play Money? Not to These News Investors 

BYLINE:  By SARA ROBINSON 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
JUST as a day trader combs business publications for tidbits that could affect a share price, Jerome Charretier, a 24-year-old French business student, anxiously listens to the news stations in his car, hoping to make it home in time to adjust his portfolio.
 Only Mr. Charretier's holdings don't have any real-world value. Rather, they are virtual futures contracts on the outcomes of events -- like whether Prime Minister Lionel Jospin will run for president in 2002. Or whether the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, will shake hands by Sept. 22. 
 "It's stressful sometimes," said Mr. Charretier, who trades these futures sometimes for hours in one day. "If I hear something very important that will modify the price of a share I own, I can't play in my car so I'm very impatient to go home." 
Mr. Charretier is a participant in NewsFutures, a Web site that poses questions about future events -- whether sporting, financial or political -- and enables the ongoing trading of "shares" on the outcomes. The site also provides chat rooms and forums, much like Yahoo Finance message boards, where players can discuss each day's events and their impact on share prices. For now, the site (www.newsfutures.com) exists only in French, but the company plans to introduce an English version this summer. 
French law doesn't permit online gambling, so the market in events is merely a game with virtual winnings and losses. Each new user gets a starting balance of 2,000 doubloons, the game's fictive money, supplemented by 500 more each day, up to a cap of 10,000. 
Each contract in favor of an outcome of an event is worth 100 doubloons when that outcome occurs and zero otherwise. Since the contracts can be traded and the perceived likelihood of the event is changing over time, the actual price of a contract rises and falls, just as financial securities and derivatives do. Winnings propel participants in the site's player rankings and can later be used to purchase gifts at the site's online store.
Among the most popular bets are those connected to live events, like a basketball game or an episode of reality television. "It's fun to watch the real-time movement in the price," said Emile Servan-Schreiber, president of NewsFutures. "This is what interactive TV should be."
Mr. Charretier agrees. "It is this interactivity, like a real stock market, that obsesses you and forces you to play again and again," he said. "You think that if you leave your screen, something could happen."
The company, incorporated in the United States, was founded by Mr. Servan-Schreiber and Maurice Balick, an American. Mr. Servan-Schreiber's grandfather, also named Emile, founded Les Echos, the first business news service in France. His father, Jean-Jacques, is a prominent politician and journalist who was a founder of the weekly L'Express.
Mr. Servan-Schreiber said he hoped that the site would continue his family's tradition of generating interest in the news by providing a new way to interact with events as they unfold. "What we are doing is inventing a new type of newspaper, focused not on today's news but on tomorrow's news," he said.
NewsFutures is not the only site to enable people to gamble, in a sense, on future events. Iowa Electronic Markets (www.biz.uiowa.edu/iem), a real-money futures market run by the University of Iowa business school as a teaching tool, focuses on economic and political events. The Hollywood Stock Exchange (www.hsx.com) allows users to bet virtual cash on fictive movie and celebrity stocks.
The concept is a powerful one. Studies show that markets have better predictive power than polls. When stakes are high, those with the most information will have an incentive to make large bets on an outcome while those with less information will tend to drop out, or so the theory goes. Even play-money markets have predictive power, according to a study released this year by scholars at the NEC Research Institute, Pennsylvania State University and the Technical University of Denmark.
Even without the lure of real money, the NewsFutures site, started up last fall and marketed by word of mouth, has attracted 15,000 registered users, some 5,000 of whom play regularly, sometimes for hours at a time.
In France such enthusiasm can be expensive since dial-up users must pay by the minute for their Internet access, though the site itself is free. The company's revenue comes from partnerships with French publications that integrate their coverage with the relevant portion of the NewsFutures site and provide subscriptions and other gifts for the online store.
The site received its initial boost during the presidential race between Al Gore and George W. Bush, when thousands flocked to the site to place bets on the outcome. Except for a brief swing toward Vice President Gore during the legal battle over the vote recount in Florida, the price remained fairly steady at 80 doubloons in favor of Mr. Bush, Mr. Servan-Schreiber said.
Sports events are highly popular, as are daily bets on whether France's CAC 40 financial index or the Nasdaq will end the day up or down.
Denis Lazat, who runs SwissQuote France, a financial Web site, says he uses NewsFutures to bet on politics or to test his theories about the markets without the risk. "If I'm wrong, it doesn't matter; I'm just glad it wasn't real money," he said, just "pure entertainment."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How the Odds Tilt"Here are some of the positions available at NewsFutures, with Wednesday's prices. The price reflects the value of a contract that will be worth 100 "doubloons" if the event comes to pass and worthless if it does not. Will Ariel Sharon and Yasir Arafat shake hands by fall?Yes: 20No: 80 Will Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France run for president in 2002?Yes: 90No: 10 Will the Russian nuclear submarine Kursk be brought back up to the surface by Sept. 20?Yes: 29No: 71 Will the 2008 Olympics be held in Paris?Yes: 34No: 66 Will America Online open its Instant Messenger service to rivals by November?Yes: 15No: 85 Will Yahoo be bought or merge with another company this year?Yes: 62No: 38 Will Lance Armstrong win the Tour de France?Yes: 61No: 39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FUTURES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); CHAT ROOMS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); BASKETBALL (65%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (64%); GAMING (64%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: NEWSFUTURES (WEB SITE) 

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (59%) ROBINSON, SARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



109 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Overseas Shares Fall on Concerns About Technology

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks closed lower overseas yesterday, pulled down mainly by the technology and telecommunications sectors. The markets in New York were closed for the Fourth of July holiday.
 In Japan, the Nikkei stock average declined 1.5 percent, weighed down by selling in technology shares, including Sony, Matsushita Electric Industrial, Hitachi and NEC. 
 Traders said investors were concerned that slumping stock prices and corporate earnings in the United States would hurt Japanese technology companies, whose profits hinge on overseas markets.
The Semiconductor Industry Association had reported earlier in the week that sales of semiconductors in May sank to $12.71 billion -- a 7 percent fall on the month and a 30 percent fall on the year.
According to Bank of America, electronics and electrical goods amount to 62 percent of total exports in Malaysia, 60 percent in the Philippines, 54 percent in Singapore, 39 percent in Taiwan, 36 percent in Korea and 28 percent in Thailand. 
In currency trading, the dollar ended marginally stronger against the euro and the yen. The market focus was mainly on the dollar and yen after remarks in Tokyo from Japan's administrative vice finance minister, Haruhiko Kuroda. 
Mr. Kuroda's comment that authorities would be happier with a weaker yen if fundamentals dictated sent the dollar surging up for a time above 125.00 yen. The dollar finished a shade above Tuesday's close of 124.40 yen, closing at 124.45 yen.
European stock markets closed lower, also pulled down by technology and telecommunications stocks. Telecommmunications shares in particular stumbled after the British equipment supplier Marconi suspended its shares. 
Marconi took the step while a board meeting discussed the outlook for the company. Marconi later announced it expected profits to drop 15 percent this year and that it was cutting as many as 8,000 jobs. 
Investors in Europe also were disappointed by dim prospects for lower interest rates. The head of the European Central Bank, Wim Duisenberg, indicated the bank was unlikely to cut rates when it meets today.
Other international markets gained ground yesterday. In Hong Kong, shares closed slightly higher, supported by a sharp rise by Pacific Century CyberWorks after the telecommunications firm announced plans to lay off 340 employees. The Hang Seng Index rose 0.17 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EURO (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); BONDS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4) 

COMPANY: TELENT LTD (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); PANASONIC CORP (58%); PCCW LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); PC (NYSE) (58%); 6752 (TSE) (58%); 0008 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (92%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); SINGAPORE (75%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



110 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Producers And Actors Reach Accord 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 4 

 BODY:
About 10:30 p.m. here on Tuesday, after reaching a tentative agreement on a contract that ends months of trepidation about an actors' strike, the chief bargainer for the producers turned to the man who represented actors for a moment of reflection.
 They had come to terms on a three-year deal that gives actors more money, although not as much as they wanted, and helps producers hold the line on spending. 
 "Once we got the planets lined up it worked pretty well," J. Nicholas Counter, chief negotiator for the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers said to Brian Walton, who bargained for the actors' unions.
The package includes increases in the industry's standard minimum wage: 3 percent for each of the next two years before rising to 3.5 percent in final year of the contract. 
"These were very difficult negotiations because of the complexities of the business today," said Mr. Counter as he announced the tentative agreement by the alliance and the actors' unions, the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
Finding that alignment had been elusive in the three days since the contract expired on Saturday at midnight. Negotiators faced the task of meeting the unions' goal of putting more money into actors pockets as producers faced dwindling profits and a fragmented marketplace.
To reach the agreement, negotiators traded ideas like they were pieces of a puzzle that at last fit together. The agreement finally puts to rest months of anxiety about a major labor showdown that could have crippled Hollywood.
The deal now goes to the boards of the two unions for approval before being mailed out to some 135,000 members for ratification. It was unanimously approved by the actors' bargaining teams and is expected to be accepted.
Actors will also receive more money when their work is sold to cable. The issue of these residuals -- payments when work is resold -- had vexed negotiators right up to the end. Producers did not want to increase the 6 percent allotment paid to actors and instead proposed that they increase what actors received by covering the amount deducted from that payment for the health and pension fund.
Actors accepted the proposal, which would result in an increase of about 13 percent in income from residuals, but the producers wanted something in return. They won it as the actors ultimately agreed to a lesser raise in the minimum wages, which are currently $617 a day.
Producers also agreed to an increase in contributions to the guild health plan; a substantial increase in salaries for guest stars and stunt coordinators; and new provisions for work on the Internet.
From the outset, the guild had put so-called middle-class actors at the heart of discussions, seeking ways to increase salaries of the members whose work relies on nonregular roles on television series and smaller parts in movies. Although stars may be able to command $20 million for a movie, these actors bring in only $30,000 to $70,000 a year.
In recent years, these actors said their paydays had decreased as producers paid more for big name stars. In addition, they said, they have made less money from residuals as more programs go to cable.
These actors will benefit specifically from an increase in the minimum for guest appearances on television and an additional $5,000 payment for actors in movies with limited roles.
Shelby Scott, president of the TV and radio association, said, "We began these negotiations focused on improving wages and working conditions for the backbone of our unions -- our middle-income members -- and I believe we've made solid gains for that group."
In many areas, the contract tracked along the same lines of an agreement struck two months ago by the Writers Guild of America and the alliance, and in some areas was identical. Specifically, producers agreed that by the third year of the contract Fox television network will pay the same residuals as ABC, NBC and CBS.
Actors also won new provision for Internet work that were similar to the writers'. However, they did not win increases in video and DVD sales.
After commercial actors struck for nearly six months last year, fears were heightened as the writers' guild and television and film actors contracts expired this year. Those fears eased in May when the Writers Guild of America accepted a three-year contract that included $41 million in pay increases.
With the agreement Tuesday, Hollywood breathed another sigh of relief. Although Mr. Counter said neither side was 100 percent pleased, "on the whole it keeps the town working and it keeps the economies of Los Angeles and New York, where a lot of production takes place, booming."
According to an independent study, a one-month walkout by actors would cost Los Angeles 21,700 jobs and $1.3 billion to the economy. If the strike went on for three months, those figures would increase to 54,000 jobs and $3.2 billion. In addition, the report noted that there would be significant effect on suppliers to the industry.
Some segments of the entertainment industry were already reporting slowdowns in work.
Attention now turns to starting production, and Mr. Counter said, "I don't see a delay in the fall season."
After it was over, a weary but satisfied Bill Daniels, president of the Screen Actors Guild, said, "If I look a little slap happy, I guess that's because I am."
He said he had been predicting since October that a deal was possible. "I was right," he said. "There was a deal to be made."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Walton, chief negotiator for the Screen Actors Guild, left, and J. Nicholas Counter, chief negotiator for the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, celebrated the tentative three-year deal on Tuesday. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); APPROVALS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%) MOTION PICTURES; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES; TELEVISION; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (91%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (82%) ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS; SCREEN ACTORS GUILD; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



111 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Tycoon Ends Online Venture In Hong Kong

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, July 4 

 BODY:
For Richard Li, the brash tycoon once celebrated as an Asian Internet visionary, it has come to this: He announced today that his telephone company, Pacific Century Cyberworks, had all but shelved its most ambitious venture in cyberspace -- and the company's shares soared nearly 8 percent.
 Cyberworks, which is based in Hong Kong, said it would fold Network of the World, a satellite-delivered entertainment and information network, into its existing Internet service in Hong Kong. The move will result in 340 layoffs, or 40 percent of its Internet work force, and cut the company's spending by nearly $100 million a year. 
 "The fact is, Internet advertising is practically nonexistent," Mr. Li said in a telephone interview. "We have the financial resources to push this, but we would consider it fiscally irresponsible." 
Mr. Li, the 34-year-old son of Hong Kong's most powerful businessman, Li Ka-shing, said the Internet venture also had less and less to do with the company's core business, telecommunications. Cyberworks acquired Hong Kong's local phone company last year for $38 billion -- a deal that turned Mr. Li into a celebrity but left his fledgling company staggering under more than $5 billion of debt.
"Our first priority is to pay down the debt," Mr. Li said. "There's really no point in creating something with little synergy."
Investors rewarded his shrunken vision by driving up his company's stock 7.78 percent, to 31 cents a share. 
That gave Cyberworks, which has lost more than 80 percent of its value since the merger, the rare distinction of being the top performer on Hong Kong's otherwise ho-hum stock market.
"Some shareholders might wish he had killed off the project faster because it is bleeding red ink," said David Webb, the editor of Webb-site .com, an Internet service that tracks Hong Kong companies.
Some sort of retrenchment by Mr. Li had been expected since March, when the company reported an $886 million loss in its first full-year results. Most of that stemmed from a huge write-down of its Internet investments and costs associated with its acquisition of the telephone company, Cable and Wireless HKT.
At the time, Mr. Li pledged to reduce spending on Network of the World, or NOW, to $200 million a year from $1.5 billion over five years. Today, he said he would cut it further, to $100 million over two years.
Michael Johnson, an American television producer who was the executive creative director of NOW, said that he would probably resign. "What this company needs is not what I do," he said in an interview.
Cyberworks built a slick studio in London, and was planning three more in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bombay, to produce interactive television programming for NOW. The programming was to have been piped to subscribers in Asia, Europe and the Middle East through satellite and high-speed cable television connections.
Despite the company's grand claims to create a "revolutionary new medium for the new generation of consumers in the digital age," NOW never caught on with viewers. Its programming seemed less pioneering than peculiar, and critics said that NOW actually stood for "no one watching."
Mr. Li said Cyberworks would keep bare-bones operations in London and Hong Kong, but would produce programs only in partnership with other companies. He said it would limit the service to Hong Kong, where 230,000 customers buy either the company's broadband or its interactive-television services.
"If we prove that this is a good model in Hong Kong, that it generates good cash flow, then we will take it elsewhere," Mr. Li said. "But we're not going to rush out and conquer the world."
Such words do not come easily to Mr. Li. After creating the Star TV satellite network and selling it to Rupert Murdoch for a huge profit and then engineering the largest corporate takeover in Asia, Mr. Li seemed born to conquer.
Instead, Pacific Century Cyberworks has become Asia's most spectacular Internet flame-out. Yet because Mr. Li was able to use his once highly valued stock to buy a phone company, the long-term survival of Cyberworks is not in doubt -- as it is for so many other Internet start-ups. 
Mr. Li said today that he had not lost his belief that the Internet was transforming the economy. But he acknowledged that success was no longer measured by vision but by financial prudence. He noted that he had delayed today's announcement a day to brief officials at Standard & Poors and Moody's Investors Service, the rating agencies that will soon rate Cyberworks' debt.
"I also sleep better with strong cash flow," Mr. Li said.
Rebuilding the finances of Cyberworks means that Mr. Li may eventually have to relinquish the top job. He said the company was searching for a telecommunications executive to become its chief executive. Mr. Li said he wanted a senior-level person with significant experience in Asia.
"This company is like a car," Mr. Li said. "A chief executive can only run it when it is fully constructed and in good working order. Right now, I'm making sure the wheels are on and that the pedals work."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: PCCW LTD (58%); CABLE & WIRELESS HKT LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC CENTURY CYBERWORKS; NETWORK OF THE WORLD 

TICKER: 0008 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%) SIC7379 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES; 

PERSON: LI, RICHARD; LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) HONG KONG (94%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



112 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Protecting the Gulf of Mexico 

 BODY:
Balancing energy and environmental interests in the Gulf of Mexico has long been a challenge to Washington and state governments along the Gulf Coast. After initially planning to open a vast new area to oil and gas drilling, the Bush administration has wisely scaled back its expectations. But even its more modest proposal for drilling in eastern gulf waters should be blocked for now by Congress. 
 Under a compromise announced earlier this week, Interior Secretary Gale Norton said the administration would seek to let oil companies drill on about 1.5 million acres in the eastern gulf, a quarter of the area that the Clinton administration first proposed opening for drilling in 1997 and that the Bush administration also favored developing. The plan would bar all exploration within 100 miles of the Florida coast. The administration believes that would still preserve the most promising sections of the original site for drilling. 
 The revised plan clearly reflects mounting White House concerns that Mr. Bush is losing public support even among moderate Republicans by so closely aligning himself with energy interests. In this case, drilling companies have been eager to tap an estimated three to seven trillion cubic feet of natural gas, whose price has been rising in part because it is the preferred fuel for most new power plants, along with what may be 400 million barrels of oil. But environmentalists in league with the president's brother Jeb Bush, the Florida governor, and Florida's Congressional delegation have opposed any drilling that might threaten the state's beaches and its multibillion-dollar tourist industry.
Jeb Bush pronounced himself satisfied with the plan. He faces a difficult re-election bid next year, and the administration's original plan could have cost him dearly among voters concerned about the preservation of the Florida Gulf Coast and the economic activity that is dependent on it. 
Drilling elsewhere in the gulf has long been an accepted component of the nation's energy strategy, even by environmentalists. Oil and gas rigs in the western and central gulf currently supply about 30 percent of the country's natural gas and 20 percent of its oil. Industry executives say the wells in the western and central gulf are beginning to run out. 
But Congress should withhold its support for drilling this far east until the administration has demonstrated that the area's oil and gas are truly needed. With prices rising, drilling is already accelerating on land in the West and Southwest that has long been open for both oil and gas exploration. It is worth establishing whether these new supplies are sufficient before drilling in sensitive areas. The ecological good health of the gulf and the economic and recreational value of Florida's beaches and those of other Gulf Coast states are worth too much to jeopardize without proof that there are no alternatives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); BEACHES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TOURISM (51%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) GULF OF MEXICO; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



113 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Living wages are practical and don't let theory get in the way.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." He also is a fellow at the Shorenstein Center at Harvard. E-mail:challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
IN an era of increasingly free markets, it is a little surprising that the "living wage" movement has caught on in America.
 Starting in Baltimore in 1995, it has spread to approximately 60 metropolitan areas, rich and poor, across the country. Living-wage agreements require any company doing business with a city, county or school board to pay all its workers on the project a high minimum wage, often as high as $10.50 an hour. This comes to about $21,000 a year for full-time work. The federal minimum wage is $5.15, or less than $11,000 a year. 
 But the living-wage movement, even as it spreads, will at most raise the pay of 75,000 or so workers. Only those companies with government contracts must comply, and they pay most of their workers more than the living wage already.
Partly because the impact is limited, economic objections to these programs have not truly taken hold. Conventional economic theory argues that any artificial increase in wages will tend to reduce jobs. Cities may also hire more qualified workers at the higher wage and dismiss the very low-wage workers whom the programs are designed to help in what is called the displacement effect. Because these programs are limited in scope, however, so are the purported adverse effects.
But the living-wage movement is now spreading beyond its original mission. Advocates for living wages are fighting battles for state and city minimum wages. They also participate in calculating so-called self-sufficiency wage standards of localities. Can these programs do more harm than good? If they go too far, of course they can. But given the low level of wages for so many in America, we are a long way from any such concerns.
In the face of general support for unfettered markets among economists and policy makers, the living wage movement seems to be potent because it is emanating from the grass roots. The original organizers of the living wage movement in Baltimore, for example, were church-sponsored poverty groups. The successful student sit-in at Harvard in the spring is likely to give further impetus to student movements around the country that were already under way.
And these groups are now spreading their wings. The Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or Acorn, a national organization of 150,000 low- and moderate-income workers, has been at the center of many living wage movements. Now Acorn is leading an intense political battle for a citywide minimum wage for all public and private workers in New Orleans. It would be the first city minimum wage in America, other than the longstanding one in Washington. Acorn was also involved in the adoption of a $6.75 statewide minimum wage in Massachusetts.
Such battles have also been joined by the self-sufficiency wage advocates. These groups, like the Women's Education and Industrial Union in Boston, are operating in 14 states. They calculate the cost of housing, food, health care, transportation to work and child care -- no recreation is included. They typically find that the self-sufficiency standards are 50 to 100 percent higher than the living wage.
As these movements become more influential, the opposition is bound to be more intense. Indeed, the basic lessons of economic theory cannot be dismissed. If wages move too high, they will reduce economic growth and hurt low-wage workers.
But knee-jerk assertions about such wage-raising programs are oversimplified. First, while there may be some job loss when wages are legislatively raised, the number of jobs will depend more on the state of the economy than on somewhat higher labor costs for business. The recent increase in the federal minimum wage, for example, has not made a blip in the unemployment rate because the economy has been strong. If the economy weakens, businesses are likely to let workers go because sales are down, not because wages are a dollar too high.
Second, the displacement effect is exaggerated. This criticism has received the most attention, including during the Harvard sit-in. If you are going to pay $10.50 an hour, why not hire a more qualified worker to replace the $8 worker? But it turns out that such higher-wage workers are not all that more qualified.
Robert Pollin, an economist at the University of Massachusetts, analyzed the educational backgrounds of the nation's cleaning and building services workers and retail cashiers. These workers represent a large share of the nation's low-wage employees. Mr. Pollin, who has been closely involved with living-wage movements around the country, found that there were only 15 percent more high school graduates in the higher-wage group than in the lower.
"There will probably be some displacement," says Mr. Pollin. "But it will be small and usually worth the gains for all the other workers."
Michael Reich and Peter Hall, economists at the University of California at Berkeley, provide corroborating evidence for this finding. They analyzed job displacement that resulted from the increase in the minimum wage in California from $4.25 an hour in 1996 to $5.75 in 1998. It was marginal.
Finally, raising wages may well improve the nation's productivity. A higher wage will reduce the high job turnover in these low-wage industries. Restaurants and hotels, which are major employers of low-income workers, lose 75 percent or more of their employees each year. Having to hire and retrain new workers is costly, so reduced turnover might well compensate for the higher wage.
American companies cannot pay any wage that community groups deem desirable. But the self-sufficiency advocates are not demanding that their high standards be met by the private sector. As Mary Lassen of the Women's Education and Industrial Union says, they want to help workers get the educational background required to qualify for better jobs. They also want more government support of child care.
The movement for decent wages in America has been a moral imperative for its advocates. But within reason, it can also be economically beneficial. It would too bad if economists used their considerable persuasive power to undermine this movement.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the spring, students at Harvard staged a sit-in to demand "living wages" for the university's lowest-paid workers. A protester, Ashwini Sukthankar, in window, spoke with passersby. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LIVING WAGE (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CITIES (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WOMEN (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%) LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



114 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Loans, Interest Rates and a Religious Principle 

BYLINE:  By SHIRA J. BOSS 

 BODY:
The Koran explicitly forbids "riba," an Arabic word that Muslim jurists have defined as usury; it was banned to protect poorer classes from exploitative money lenders.
 But many observant Muslims and experts in Shariah, or Islamic law, do not agree whether that prohibition bans any interest at all or only excessive interest. 
 "Shariah scholars have ruled both ways," said Timur Kuran, a professor of economics and the King Faisal professor of Islamic Thought and Culture at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. "It's been a persistent controversy." 
Because of that ambiguity, observant Muslims until fairly recently either financed their businesses and purchases in cash or agreed to pay and receive interest. Those who paid riba could invoke a necessity clause in the Koran; many who accepted it on savings would donate the interest earned to charity.
"It wasn't until the 1970's that this issue was even discussed, that there could be an Islamic, or interest-free, banking system," said Mahmoud A. El-Gamal, a professor of Islamic economics, finance and management at Rice University in Houston. Many Muslims were simply paying and collecting interest -- "and not worrying about it," he added.
A growing number of Muslims, however, are seeking an alternative that adheres to the stricter interpretation of Islamic law.
"In the United States, there is a larger degree of conservatism among American Muslims, so there is more demand for Islamic banking," said Khaled Abou el Fadl, who teaches Islamic law at U.C.L.A. 
One goal in Islamic finance is to have both partners -- the bank and the buyer -- share equally in the risk of a transaction. Because Islamic banks invest with their customers rather than lend to them, the risk of losing principal is greater and there is no fixed rate of return. In some cases, such transactions amount to nothing more exotic than the sort of lease that is familiar to many Western car buyers: the finance company buys a car and lets the customer drive it in exchange for monthly payments over a fixed period. When the term is up, the customer can buy the used car at the market price or enter another lease.
For homes, however, different approaches are used. To conform to Shariah, homebuyers and finance companies effectively become partners, either through lease-purchase agreements that resemble conventional financing or through self-help groups that pool money from Muslim investors to help one another buy houses.
Under lease-purchase programs, for example, a home buyer and the finance company pool their money to buy a house. The home owner agrees to make monthly payments that are split between repaying the company its capital and paying a fair-market rent on the property. The rent is split between the buyer and the financial institution according to how much each has invested in the house.
If, for example, the finance company put up 70 percent of the purchase price, it would receive 70 percent of the rent -- that is the return on its investment. As the homebuyer repaid part of the capital each month, however, the institution's ownership stake in the house -- and, therefore, its percentage of the rent -- would decrease. Eventually, the homeowner would repay all the capital and the rent payments would cease.
At American Finance House-Lariba, an Islamic finance company in Pasadena, Calif., the lease-purchase program is similar in structure to a traditional mortgage so that a portion of each payment would qualify as tax deductible under the section of the tax code that covers interest payments. That allows Lariba to qualify for financing from Freddie Mac, the government-chartered private company that helps to finance home purchases. 
Lariba is the first Islamic institution to receive Freddie Mac financing. It receives about 15 requests for loan applications every day, three times as many as last year, said M. Maguid Abdelaaty, the company's president.
"We're required to calculate the implied rate of return," he said, adding that the financing structure his company uses eases customers' mind about paying interest, "but the documentation, the note and the mortgage forms are the same" as for loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); ISLAMIC BANKING (89%); SALES FINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%) CREDIT; MUSLIM AMERICANS; ISLAM; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); RICE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BOSS, SHIRA J 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



115 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Struggles to Define Rules for Recreational Water Use 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: GOLDEN, Colo., June 30 

 BODY:
With the snow melted and tumbling down the Rocky Mountains in rivers and creeks here, the kayaks, rafts and canoes have come out just in time for growing legal battles over who controls Colorado's waterways and how they should be used.
 In one controversy, towns along rivers that are popular with tourists have asked state water courts, which allocate water rights, to guarantee enough flow for boaters. But state officials, and towns upstream, have objected, saying such rulings would impede development and even limit the water available for homes, industries and farms. 
 The City of Golden recently won a ruling in water court that entitled it to use 1,000 cubic feet -- more than 600,000 gallons -- of Clear Creek every second from May to July to keep kayakers bobbing in the municipal Clear Creek Whitewater Park, a nationally known course. 
In a parched land where ranchers, farmers, industrialists and developers have fought pitched battles over precious water, the ruling was one of the first to acknowledge the increasing importance of recreational water use and its economic impact. 
"Recreation is king in terms of the economic base for this state," said Glenn Porzak, a lawyer who represented Golden. "It's the primary industry, the primary lifestyle reason that people live in this state or come to visit this state."
But the Colorado Water Conservation Board, which oversees water use throughout the state and has not dealt with recreational water issues, has said that the flow the judge permitted is available only nine days a year and that the allocation is too great. 
"In a semiarid state, you've got to have adequate water," said Dan McAuliffe, deputy director of the conservation board, which could appeal the ruling to the State Supreme Court. "We're seeing limitations in the future with more growth or if there is a prolonged drought."
This spring the state enacted a law requiring the board to review all but the most minor requests for recreational water use and submit its finding to the water court judge hearing the case.
Water sports are an industry in Colorado. River rafting alone generated $122 million in business last year, up from $89 million in 1995, according to the Colorado River Outfitters Association.
While the main tourism draw in Golden is the Coors brewery -- also known for its water use -- the water park brings in an estimated $2 million to $3 million a year. 
"The more water, the more attractive it is," the Golden city manager, Mike Bestor, said. 
But old mining towns upstream also depend on the water from Clear Creek for everything from household uses to running the Georgetown Loop steam train in the summer. 
"What it comes down to is, Is recreational purpose more important than consumptive use?" said Paul E. McKenna, the administrator of Georgetown, upstream. 
In another legal battle over water, the issue is not quantity but location. 
A rancher in Gunnison, Colo., is suing a rafting company whose boating tours cross his property.
At issue is the right to float. In Wyoming, New Mexico and other Western states, the law gives the public a clear right to use rivers and streams recreationally as long as they enter them from public land.
The law in Colorado is not clear on this point. A law enacted in 1977, a decision by the Colorado Supreme Court in 1979 and a 1983 opinion from the state attorney general have in part contradicted each other. As a result, each side has interpreted the law in its own way, with custom holding that boaters can float or paddle through private property as long as they do not touch the riverbed or banks. 
"Every river in the state flows through private property at some point," said John Nichols of Cannibal Outdoors in Lake City, Colo., the company that is being sued for trespassing by the rancher, Yosi Lutwak.
"This could essentially cripple the entire river industry in the state if we don't win," Mr. Nichols said.
He added that the cost of litigation could put him out of business. 
John Hill, a lawyer for Mr. Lutwak, said the issue was property rights, not water rights.
"There is a popular misconception that there is a right to do this," Mr. Hill said. "My client wants to protect his resource from overuse."
In other rivers the steps to curb floating have been more extreme. Landowners who run a fishing business along the South Platte River recently lowered a gate along the river to prevent boaters from passing. Kayakers were arrested and ticketed for trespassing. 
In a more peaceful protest, Mr. Nichols staged a "float-in" last month along the Lake Fork of the Gunnison River.
"This could open a Pandora's box of litigation throughout the state if landowners have the right to close rivers," Mr. Nichols said. 
Robert C. Ward, director of the Colorado Water Resources Research Institute in Fort Collins, said water rights were continuously developing.
"How do you define a human use when the water doesn't leave the stream?" Mr. Ward asked. "Historically, water rights are a constant evolution, and recreation is just now beginning to find its way into our water law."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about battles over Colorado's waterways included a miscalculation of how much water a court recently permitted the city of Golden to divert for recreational use in its Clear Creek Whitewater Park. It is 1,000 cubic feet of water per second, which is about 7,480 gallons, not more than 600,000 gallons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Smirnow of Denver kayaking through Clear Creek in Golden, Colo., where the city fought to guarantee enough flow for boaters. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); WATER PARKS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); PROPERTY LAW (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); JUDGES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); DROUGHT (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); APPEALS (63%); BREWERIES (60%) RIVERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (96%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) COLORADO; GOLDEN (COLO); 

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



116 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Marconi Announces New Plan to Cut 4,000 Jobs Worldwide 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 4 

 BODY:
The British telecommunications equipment maker Marconi said today that it expected to cut 4,000 more jobs worldwide. The new cuts are in addition to 4,000 jobs lost since April. 
 It said sales for the current financial year were likely to fall 15 percent, while operating profits could be cut in half. The loss excludes Marconi's American-based unit, Marconi Medical Systems, which the Dutch company Royal Philips Electronics said it would buy for $1.1 billion in cash. 
 Marconi said companies were delaying purchases because of the global economic slowdown.
The company, which employs about 50,000 people in 19 countries, said the new job losses were part of a cost-cutting plan, and that 1,000 of the jobs would be cut in management.
Marconi said that after the new round of cuts, and the farming out of part of its business, its staff will have been cut a total of 10,000.
Sales have slowed in the United States, where Marconi does about 40 percent of its business. Weaker economic conditions have weakened demand there, too.
In April, Marconi outlined plans to cut 3,000 jobs. Today, the company said 4,000 people had "left or agreed to leave" since those plans were announced. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES 

COMPANY: TELENT LTD (91%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (57%); MARCONI MEDICAL SYSTEMS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MARCONI SPA 

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (57%); PHIA (AMS) (57%); PHG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (91%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (91%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



117 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2634 words

HEADLINE: A MOVEMENT IN HIDING: A special report.; 
Sect Clings to the Web in the Face of Beijing's Ban

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Tapping away at one of his computers in a cramped two-room apartment in western Beijing, Lloyd Zhao is engaged in an extraordinarily dangerous endeavor -- searching through the night for holes in the electronic wall that the government has built to keep Chinese from seeing Web sites of Falun Gong, the outlawed spiritual movement. 
 Periodically, firewall programs that Mr. Zhao has installed on his computer detect a signal from another computer in China that is trying to identify him. The string of numbers from the snooping computer that appear on Mr. Zhao's screen can invariably be traced to a branch of the Public Security Bureau. 
 "They look for anyone who tries to reach Falun Gong Web sites overseas," says the shaggy-haired Mr. Zhao, 33, a fervent Falun Gong follower and an advanced computer technician. When the surveillance becomes too intense, he switches Internet accounts, operating systems, even hard-disk drives and telephone lines to mask his online identity. 
He says the threat of detection will not dissuade him from his self-appointed mission to keep open the lines of communication between the discipline's United States-based founder, Li Hongzhi, and followers here, where a government campaign to eradicate the movement has entered what Beijing hopes is the endgame. 
Since China set out to crush Falun Gong nearly two years ago, as many as 200 people have died, possibly thousands have been beaten or tortured, and millions have been cowed into renouncing their faith in Mr. Li's apocalyptic cosmology. 
 On Wednesday, Chinese officials confirmed a human rights report of a mass suicide by Falun Gong followers in a labor camp, but Falun Gong adherents continued to insist that the inmates were tortured to death. Page A10. 
But Mr. Zhao and hundreds like him continue to elude China's internal security forces, using temporary cell phone numbers, encryption programs and obscure Internet services based overseas to keep the remaining network of followers connected. 
That makes Mr. Zhao one of the "most dangerous" of Falun Gong's remaining proponents, according to He Zuoxiu, a physicist and a Communist Party member who has played an integral role in having the movement banned. Mr. He says Falun Gong is an evil cult that, unchallenged, could threaten China's tenuous stability, should it galvanize the millions of people disenfranchised by the transition from a centrally planned to a market-driven economy. 
Sitting in his apartment a few miles from Mr. Zhao's apartment, Mr. He said people like Mr. Zhao should be hunted down and locked up until they have recanted their beliefs. 
The two men, separated not only by age but also by spiritual beliefs -- Mr. He, 74, is an avowed atheist, and Mr. Zhao believes in multiple gods -- are on opposite sides of a confrontation that has drawn considerable attention in the West, in part because it represents the most sustained challenge to Communist Party authority in more than a decade. 
On one side is a group that believes that it is engaged in a battle with evil beings for control of the universe. On the other is a government that promotes atheism and feels so threatened by a relative handful of people that it has marshaled the full force of its police power to bend them to its will. 
"The number of followers is getting smaller, and the crackdown is growing fiercer, but it's going to end with our victory soon," Mr. Zhao said at one of many recent interviews, almost always at restaurants or bars or shopping malls around the city, for which his lanky frame, clad in black, would suddenly emerge from the crowd at the appointed hour. 
Mr. Zhao said he had decided to speak out because Master Li says followers should step forward to "validate" Falun Gong. Mr. Zhao said he believed that the authorities would find it difficult to identify him, because Zhao is a common surname in China. He asked that this article use his anglicized first name, which he uses with foreigners but which does not appear on any of his identity papers.
One meeting was in a private room on the second floor of a Thai-Indian restaurant where Mr. Zhao and two visitors were obliged to order too much food to buy some isolation. Yet he still chose his words carefully, stopping in midsentence whenever a waitress passed by outside or entered the room. No matter where he is, his eyes have a habit of looking out their corners as if he were listening for footfalls from behind. 
He turns vague when asked how the end will come. 
Under attack, Falun Gong has evolved from a well-regulated movement with a structure not unlike that of the Communist Party into a nonhierarchical mass movement whose structure mirrors that of the Internet, on which it depends. 
There are no longer any national Falun Gong posts in China, only local volunteer "tutors" and "facilitators" like Mr. Zhao who look to Master Li for guidance. Although Mr. Zhao is an important node in that network, he is the first to concede that he and his friends are dispensable. 
If they are caught, he said, other devotees will take their place. The Communist Party can punch large holes in the Falun Gong movement. But until the government "re-educates" or imprisons every last true believer, he explained, the network will endure. 
Still, the destruction of the group's internal hierarchy has fragmented its members into loosely connected groups, some following charismatic tutors or even fake scriptures that are circulating in China. 
Interpretations of Mr. Li's messages now vary widely among followers. One manifestation of the less cohesive dogma may have been the self-immolation of followers this year on Tiananmen Square, an act that senior followers in the United States say went against Mr. Li's teachings.

Inspiration
After Bar Binges, A Spiritual Quest
Mr. Zhao got his start on computers in the early 1980's. By the time he reached his 20's, he was among the first computer geeks in China, going days without sleep while he hacked away at his keyboard. His expertise later landed him a string of high-tech jobs. One was at a company that installed pinhole video cameras and other surveillance equipment in hotel rooms. 
For years, he softened the edges of his spiritually arid life among computers with binges in Beijing's bars. With beer, cigarettes and sleep deprivation, his health deteriorated to the point that he began losing his teeth. He speaks today with a self-consciously stiff upper lip that hides a gap where his eyeteeth once were. 
Many Falun Gong followers live in an industrial urban jumble of half-finished concrete shells, smokestacks and high-tension power lines where traditional religion has been replaced by official atheism.
Mr. Li, a former clerk in a government grain bureau, was among dozens of self-styled "masters" who stepped in to fill that void in the early 90's with spiritual disciplines based on the practice of traditional Chinese breathing exercises that seek to channel qi, the body's vital energy, to improve health or obtain supernatural powers. 
He wrapped his exercises in a complex cosmology that mixed traditional religious tenets with popular notions of extraterrestrials and U.F.O.'s to create a vivid belief system that struck a chord with many Chinese who were searching for moral and spiritual guidance. 
In 1996, a friend sent Mr. Zhao an e-mail message that directed him to a Falun Gong Web site in the United States. He logged onto the site and spent the night reading an online edition of Zhuan Falun, Mr. Li's main text, which followers regard as their bible. Mr. Zhao bought a copy the next day. Three days later, he said, he stopped smoking and drinking and was immersed in the world that Mr. Li presents. 
At its core, Mr. Li's message is a simple one -- be a better person and you will be saved. He cast his followers in the pivotal role of a cosmic morality play, the aspect that most attracted Mr. Zhao. 
"Master Li has said that there is not much time left, and so all followers should grasp this chance to reached the highest spiritual level that they can before the day comes," Mr. Zhao said at another meeting, this time beneath the soaring escalators of a new shopping mall here. "My aspirations are different now. I'm pursuing the improvement of my inner self." 
At the peak of the movement two years ago, thousands of Falun Gong "tutors" guided followers in exercise and study sessions in parks and plazas at dawn each day. The tutors were, in turn, grouped into "stations" and met regularly to discuss the development of the movement and the planning of periodic mass events. 
Station "chiefs" communicated with the Falun Dafa Research Society in Beijing, which took orders from Mr. Li. Falun Dafa, or Great Law of the Dharma Wheel, is the formal name for Falun Gong, or Dharma Wheel Practice. 
Mr. He, the physicist, was among the first prominent Chinese to speak out against the growing organization. According to Mr. He, one of his students became mentally unstable after practicing the discipline in the mid-90's, and the physicist faulted Falun Gong for the student's trouble in a televised interview in 1998.
In a magazine article a year later, Mr. He warned again of the movement's danger to youth. That article inspired a 10,000-strong Falun Gong demonstration outside the leadership compound here in April 1999, the event that precipitated the government's eradication campaign. 
Falun Gong's formal structure in China broke down after the crackdown, as members of the hierarchy were rounded up, with the most active sentenced to lengthy jail terms. Those tutors not under detention are now under close surveillance by the neighborhood committees that are the lowest rung of the Communist Party's national surveillance system. 
Nonetheless, many Falun Gong followers continue to meet daily, though it is impossible to tell how many remain active. Mr. Li says there are 70 million practitioners in China and 100 million followers worldwide, though he has never offered evidence to support that. Closer scrutiny suggests the movement in China never numbered more than several million, and China's antiFalun Gong campaign has most certainly scared off many. 
The government has had more than a year to measure the breadth and depth of what is left, and it apparently believes that it has identified the remaining core, 40,000 people, according to Mr. He. By dealing harshly with the most militant, a manageable number in the scope of the vast internal security apparatus, Beijing hopes to neutralize the rest. 
"The detention centers are all full up!" Mr. He exclaimed, sitting in his study in black long johns and a gray hand-knit sweater one afternoon. 
He said that at the beginning of the year the government switched from its strategy of sending followers arrested in the capital back to their home provinces and began collecting the detainees at centers here. As many as 6,000 of the most active followers are in detention, to be held until they have recanted their beliefs or are sent to reform-through-labor camps in the countryside, Mr. He said. 
Mr. He has become one of Falun Gong's prime enemies, described in the group's literature as a demon in league with evil beings, including President Jiang Zemin, who are fighting Falun Gong for control of the universe. Mr. He smiles at the reference, his eyeglasses and thin gray hair askew, but he insists that such talk is far from harmless. He said it recalled the language of the Taiping, the mid-19th century spiritual movement that turned into full-scale armed rebellion, which took over a huge swath of the country, cost millions of lives and threatened to bring down the last imperial government before it was suppressed.
That assessment paints Mr. Zhao as a threat to China's social order, a role Mr. He knows well. "I did underground work," he said, recalling his early days as a Communist Party member before the party took power in 1949. "We went to demonstrate, but the core in the movement wouldn't go to the streets. Falun Gong is the same."

Practice
As Pressure Grows, A Movement Adapts
In Mr. Zhao's crowded apartment, a diptych that shows the Falun Gong founder both seated and standing sits atop a white enameled bookshelf beside Mr. Zhao's bed. The apartment's only other decoration is a round pillow with a large yellow swastika, a Buddhist symbol of good will, surrounded by smaller swastikas and yin-yang symbols, associated with Taoism, the other ancient philosophical strain that has contributed to Master Li's teachings. This is where Mr. Zhao sits to perform his exercises each day. 
The pillow's emblem represents the Falun, or Dharma Wheel, and is described by Mr. Li as a miniature of the cosmos that he says he installs telekinetically in the abdomens of all his followers, where it rotates in alternating directions, throwing off bad karma and gathering qi. Many Falun Gong adherents say they can feel the wheel turning in their bellies. 
The rest of Mr. Zhao's Falun Gong paraphernalia -- books, tapes and photographs of Mr. Li -- are stored elsewhere in case his apartment is raided. Mr. Zhao and others like him download and disseminate inspirational Falun Gong videos, Falun Gong propaganda fliers and even Mr. Li's books formatted for desktop printers, all with the intent of keeping the movement in China alive. 
Mr. Zhao has distributed hundreds of compact disks containing a complete Falun Gong kit, including links to secure Internet servers overseas and dozens of Falun Gong Web sites, as well as photographs of U.F.O.'s and videos of the corpses of some of the followers reportedly tortured to death by the police. 
"When Master Li issues a new message, 99 percent of the followers in Beijing will have it within three days," Mr. Zhao said.
China recently issued a new legal interpretation of the antisubversion laws that allows it to hand down lengthy prison terms to followers like Mr. Zhao who distribute leaflets or disseminate Mr. Li's messages, which have grown increasingly apocalyptic.
"It is in fact time to let go of your last attachments," Mr. Li wrote to followers in August, adding that believers should "let go of all worldly attachments (including the attachment to the human body)."
On Jan. 1, Mr. Li told his disciples: "The present performance of the evil shows that they are already utterly inhuman and completely without righteous thoughts. So such evil's persecution of the Fa can no longer be tolerated." 
That set off a debate among Falun Gong followers in China about what Mr. Li's message meant. Senior followers in the United States were quick to issue an appeal that followers keep calm. A week later, a similarly cautionary note was posted on the Web site by followers in China, who wrote that "certain disciples had some extreme interpretations" of the message. 
Mr. Li never clarified his remarks, and three weeks after he made them, five followers ignited themselves on Tiananmen Square. 
The Chinese government seized on the self-immolations as proof of its contentions that Falun Gong is dangerous. Some Falun Gong followers insisted that Mr. Li prohibits the taking of life, even one's own, and that the five could therefore not have been Falun Gong followers.
But contrary to the Falun Gong public relations campaign, which is organized in the United States, Mr. Zhao said he believed that at least some of the people who set themselves on fire were indeed followers. "What they did was wrong," he said. "But it was very brave." 
Mr. Zhao said his job was to keep Mr. Li's message pure and to prevent additional followers from going astray. With a few keystrokes in the darkness, he circumvents the government's electronic barriers and up pops Mr. Li's image on the screen, along with a message that reads, "Removing the evil beings that manipulate people to damage humankind is also protecting humankind."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lloyd Zhao, a fervent Falun Gong follower and computer technician, at the sect's Web site. (Craig S. Smith/The New York Times); Li Hongzhi, founder of the outlawed movement, in Manhattan. (Jeffrey A. Salter/The New York Times); Two Falun Gong followers at their trial in April in Beijing, where they were given 13-year prison terms for threatening to derail trains unless the government freed Falun Gong detainees. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); TORTURE (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (86%); FIREWALLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (77%); WEB SITES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); DEATHS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); HARD DRIVES (53%); SUICIDE (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; LI HONGZHI 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



118 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: Muslims in U.S. Seek Financing; 
Pursing the American Dream While Following the Koran

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
After moving his growing young family into rental apartments, his in-laws' house and then again into a rented condominium, Sal Spiteri scraped together the money for a down payment last year and bought his first home. It is a milestone that brings joy to most people, but it pained Mr. Spiteri, and he said that it tormented him still.
 The problem is the mortgage he had to take on his new house in North Babylon, N.Y. As observant Muslims, the Spiteris try to follow the Islamic prohibition on paying or receiving interest. They pay their credit card bills in full each month. They keep checking but not savings accounts. And when they were ready to buy a home, they sought help from an Islamic cooperative in Houston, the MSI Financial Services Corporation, one of only a handful of such specialists in the country. 
 That was five years ago. The couple -- Mr. Spiteri became a Muslim and his wife, Hoda, is from Egypt -- are still on an MSI waiting list for financing. 
"It's frustrating when you know there is a right way and a wrong way, and you're being driven toward the wrong," said Mr. Spiteri, a program manager with Symbol Technologies Inc. in Holtsville, N.Y. "A lot of people say, 'We're in America and we can't change the rules.' I think the important thing is realizing it's wrong and trying to change it."
Faith has never been much of a factor in the mortgage business and fashioning products to accommodate religious requirements is a novel, even mystifying, idea for regulated institutions like banks. But, mindful of the country's changing demographics, some financial services companies now see the estimated five million to seven million Muslims in America as an untapped market that is growing enough in numbers, wealth and sophistication to justify specialized products.
At least one major lender, HSBC Bank USA, is already positioning itself to mine the Muslim home financing market in the New York City area. Bank officials say they plan to offer a plan tailored to Islamic precepts as early as September to potential home buyers in Brooklyn, Queens and elsewhere on Long Island, where 90 of its 437 American branches are situated. The bank is the American unit of HSBC Holdings, the British parent of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
"Our target market is the second and third generation, educated, middle-class Muslims -- the American who believes in his religious values but at the same time is proud to be an American and wants the American dream of owning a car and a home," said Iqbal Khan, head of global Islamic finance for HSBC.
While the biggest demand by far is for home financing, he said, HSBC also is promoting its checking accounts and debit cards as products sensitive to Muslim needs.
The Muslim market, however, is not a typical immigrant or ethnic market that can be reached simply by educating people about American-style credit or translating mortgage documents.
They may be, as Muslim leaders argue, the fastest-growing subgroup in the national mix. But American Muslims are also a diverse lot of varied national origins, economic status and views toward Western-style credit. While some form of lease-purchase or partnership contract is the standard model for Islamic finance, the details of how it should be structured are a matter of much debate.
So is the more basic issue of whether a conventional bank, with its other interest-based revenues, is a permissible partner for a Muslim. And since Islam requires that the parties to any contract share equally in the risk, there is disagreement over whether it is proper to participate in a regulated transaction that gives a bank the right to foreclose in the case of a default.
Even Islamic scholars have yet to reach a consensus. Ordinary Muslims, then, tend to take more conservative or skeptical views.
"Because the whole world is based on interest, you sometimes get interpretations that say if you are buying a house and living in it, it's O.K. to have a mortgage, or it's O.K. if you don't get a big house," said Farrukh Siddiqui, a Pakistani-born Web site developer in Levittown, Pa. who rents an apartment for his family of four. "But a lot of us living in this country now have come to realize this whole interest thing is something we really have to avoid."
HSBC is not alone in entering the Islamic finance business. Recently, a number of smaller mortgage banks and finance houses also announced their interest in the market, following in the steps of the mortgage financing company Freddie Mac, which has promised to provide much-needed liquidity to the Islamic finance business.
In late March, Freddie Mac, which is shareholder-owned and government-chartered, announced it would invest in Islamic financing contracts that conform to its eligibility requirements, starting with the purchase of an estimated $1 million in contracts from the American Finance House-Lariba, a small Islamic lender in Pasadena, Calif., that has financed several dozen home purchases through a lease-to-own contract marketed to American Muslims.
Saber Salam, vice president for customer strategies and offerings at Freddie Mac, said he has been contacted by many major banks, mortgage brokers and other institutions that are developing financing options for Muslims.
Based on their interest and on the agency's estimate of the potential Muslim market, he added, Freddie Mac expects to participate in $3 billion to $5 billion in such contracts the next few years.
If the volume reaches that level, it would represent just a tiny fraction, about 1 percent, of all the home loans that Freddie Mac and its older cousin Fannie Mae participate in each year. But it would be a huge advance for the Islamic home finance market, long limited mainly to homegrown cooperatives like MSI and Lariba that were handicapped by a lack of capital.
The market includes Muslims who have already bought houses using conventional mortgages but, like the Spiteris, want to refinance, as well as those who held back from buying homes because of a lack of Islamic alternatives.
To make the program work, Freddie Mac also plans to raise money by selling a bond based on those contracts, an investment that it can promote to Islamic investors overseas as religiously correct.
The rather sudden interest on the part of financial institutions in the United States is partly a response to the heightened visibility of American Muslims as they have become more politically active and concentrated in big cities. A substantial number have college educations and household incomes above $50,000 a year. About 40 percent are African-Americans, Muslim organizations say, and the rest are a mix of people of Southeast Asian, East Asian and Arab descent.
At the same time, banks are responding to the growing confidence of many younger Muslims who now demand accommodation from the society around them.
"My parents came here from Pakistan with a very strong impulse to compromise for the opportunities available," said Naveed M. Siddiqui, vice president for North American marketing at IslamiQ (pronounced Islam I.Q.), a two-year-old Muslim-run company that advises financial institutions and investors on developing Islamic financing and investment products.
"They figured that they were going to a country where there are few mosques, no real Muslim institutions and as much as they could they would stick to their way of living," he added. "The idea was to buy the right house, even if it meant getting a mortgage, and live in the right neighborhood and be all-American."
Mr. Siddiqui at IslamiQ, 31, grew up as an American, in Roslyn, N.Y., and said he and others of his generation feel more of a sense of entitlement. "That's why the demand for Islamic finance is increasing," he said. "A lot of people are growing up in the West and adapting to Western products. And they're saying, 'Let's make demands on the market.' "
Until recently, American Muslims looking for an alternative to a conventional mortgage could turn to self-help groups that pooled money from investors and placed it in a revolving fund that bought homes and leased them to Muslim families.
Abid Shaikh, a vice president at a Merrill Lynch office in Plainsboro, N.J., took a slightly different route. He used his own money to buy homes in partnership with Muslim couples who purchase his stake over time through a lease based on the fair market rent of the house. He has just started a car-leasing business on the same principle.
Although some of his colleagues might think that he has sacrificed his own comforts for his faith, Mr. Shaikh, a 40-year-old who was born in India, said he is not concerned.
"I live in a town house which I bought with all cash," he said. "My peers, including those who are not vice presidents like me, are living in houses three times as big as mine. Since I have belief in me, those things are not bothering me."
The biggest American experiment in Islamic home-buying contracts was run by the United Bank of Kuwait, which ceased operations in the United States after its merger with the Al-Ahli Commercial Bank of Bahrain last year to form the Alhi United Bank in Bahrain. During the two years before it closed in New York, the United Bank of Kuwait bought and leased back 60 homes for American Muslims.
Its experience provided some valuable lessons. Former employees of that bank said they found that women are often the driving force in a family to find an Islamic alternative to financing; that prospective customers will tolerate somewhat higher monthly payments than a conventional fixed-rate mortgage but not a great deal higher; and that sellers and real estate agents tend to view an unfamiliar financing contract with skepticism.
Abdulkader Thomas, the former general manager of United Bank of Kuwait in New York, has now formed an Islamic mortgage bank, in partnership with Capital Guidance a real estate investment company in Washington, and a marketing firm, MEF Money, based in McLean, Va. He said he hopes to have the bank licensed in 15 to 20 states by September and then to begin offering home financing contracts that would be based on a partnership contract between the bank and the home buyer.
Within a year, American Muslims will have a wide range of financing choices, predicted Abdul-Hakim Dyer, another veteran of the United Bank of Kuwait program.
"There is going to be a mix: small organizations, conventional brokers, big banks," he said. "I wasn't talking this way a year ago. But I've been amazed at how many people were watching what we did" at United Bank of Kuwait.
Mr. Dyer, an independent consultant based in Stamford, Conn., said that he, too, plans to start an Islamic services business.
"The Muslim community is increasingly sophisticated, regardless of generation," he said. "You may drive a taxi, but you know how to finance a medallion."
"What they're really looking for," Mr. Dyer added, "is an opportunity to get it right, to fit in, to enjoy what everyone else enjoys and take it to the next level."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Naveed Siddiqui is a vice president of IslamiQ, a company that advises financial institutions and investors on Islamic financing products. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times); Abid Shaikh, right, at home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He helps Muslims lease homes while abiding with Islamic principles. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) Chart: "A Growing Market"American Muslims tend to be younger than the general population, and many are buying their first homes, acquiring cars and starting businesses. To conform to Islamic strictures against paying or receiving interest, they are developing innovative ways to raise money. Chart shows Age distribution of adults for American Muslims and all Americans. Where Muslims in U.S. were bornUnited States -- 22%Outside of United States -- 78% (Source: Zogby International, August 2000, based on a survey commissioned by the American Muslim Council) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (76%); ISLAMIC BANKING (75%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); CITIES (61%) CREDIT; ISLAM; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; MUSLIM AMERICANS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (67%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (67%); HSBC BANK USA NA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC BANK USA 

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (67%); HSB (PAR) (67%); HBC (NYSE) (67%); 0005 (HKSE) (67%); MSI (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%)

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (79%); HONG KONG (79%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



119 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Sect Clings to the Web In the Face of Beijing's Ban
Computer-minded followers of the outlawed spiritual movement Falun Gong are using temporary cell phone numbers, encryption programs and obscure Internet services based overseas to poke holes in the Chinese government's electronic wall and keep the remaining network of followers connected. Since China set out to crush Falun Gong nearly two years ago, as many as 200 people have died, possibly thousands have been beaten or tortured and millions have been cowed into renouncing their faith. A1

Chinese officials confirmed reports that Falun Gong followers died in a labor camp, but conflicting accounts of what happened were unresolved. A10

Argentina Ex-Leader Indicted
Former President Carlos Saul Menem was indicted and ordered to stand trial on charges that he led a conspiracy and falsified government documents to smuggle arms to Croatia and Ecuador in the 1990's. A3

Bosnian Serbs to Cooperate
The Bosnian Serb government, which has until now refused all cooperation with the international war crimes tribunal at The Hague, said it was willing to arrest indicted suspects, though legal hurdles remained. A7

Push for Calm in Macedonia
Talks to resolve the rebel crisis are back on track, President Boris Trajkovski said, even as shelling and shooting continued around the northern mountains, where government troops and ethnic Albanians have been fighting for four months. A9

Germany Eyes 'Guest Workers'
A high-level committee proposed opening the door to immigrant laborers who fueled Germany's postwar economy until the door was closed more than two decades ago. A3

Israel Affirms Policy on Militants
Israel's security cabinet decided to press ahead with a policy of assassinating suspected Palestinian militants in an effort to stop persistent killings of Israelis, officials said. A5

Turkey to Try American
Aydogan Fuat, a Sufi Muslim who leads an Islamic group with several hundred followers in New York, has been ordered to stand trial on charges of insulting the secular government in Turkey, an aide said. A4

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A12-15

Death Row Cases Lacking Lawyers to Handle Appeals
Dozens of death row inmates across the country lack lawyers for their postconviction appeals, in part because private law firms are increasingly unwilling to take on burdensome, expensive and emotionally wrenching capital cases, death penalty lawyers say. The situation has dire consequences, experts say, because two out of three appealed death sentences are set aside because of errors by defense lawyers at trial or prosecutorial misconduct. A1

School Staff Members Arrested
Five staff members at a nondenominational Christian school for troubled youth, the Heartland Christian Academy in rural northeastern Missouri, have been charged with multiple counts of felony child abuse arising from accusations that they disciplined children by forcing them to stand in manure pits at an adjacent farm. The founder of the school, a wealthy insurance executive, Charles Sharpe, 73, rejected the charges and said the children had only worked shoveling manure as punishment for infractions. A1

Children Tell of Camp Abuse
Arizona investigators continued their inquiry into the death of a 14-year-old boy at a desert boot camp for troubled youth. Children at the camp, which is west of Phoenix, said counselors had punched and kicked campers and made them wear handcuffs and swallow mud. The sheriff closed the camp on Monday. A15

Diary Leads to Ohio Jail Cell
Brian Dalton of Columbus, who wrote in his journal about sexually abusing and torturing children, was sentenced to 10 years for pandering obscenity involving a minor, even though the accounts were apparently fictitious and might never have been shown to anyone. Mr. Dalton, 22, was on probation for a pandering conviction involving pornographic photographs of children. AP

Dispute Over Use of Park
Forest Service officials were wrangling with leaders of the Rainbow Family, a loose-knit organization that for the last three decades has held an annual Fourth of July gathering in a national forest, this year in Idaho. Officials say the assemblage, which peaked at 23,000 people last year in Montana, threatens streams used as spawning grounds for endangered salmon. Thus far, 19 people have been arrested, with dozens more either issued citations or served with warrants. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

A Relic of Lincoln's Death Is Found in Connecticut
The Connecticut Historical Society plans to announce today that it has one of the five flags that were in Abraham Lincoln's theater box on the night of his assassination in 1865. Experts who reviewed the three-year effort to verify the authenticity of the so-called Treasury Guard flag said there was little doubt it was in the box at Ford's Theater. Two of the other flags remain unaccounted for. A1

'Sopranos' Actor Arrested
Robert Iler, 16, who portrays the dispirited adolescent son of a mob boss on the HBO series "The Sopranos," was arrested with three friends and charged with committing a strong-arm robbery on the Upper East Side. B1

ARTS E1-12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

A Risk After a Caesarean
More than a decade after doctors declared it safe for women to give birth vaginally after having had a Caesarean section, a study has found that doing so is riskier to both mother and child than a second surgical delivery, especially if hormones are used to induce labor. A1

Optimism Over Heart Patient
Surgeons in Louisville who implanted the first self-contained artificial heart on Monday said that so far the patient's recovery had vastly exceeded their expectations. But they cautioned that the procedure was an experiment in which a complication could arise at any time. A1

CIRCUITS G1-10

OBITUARIES B8

SPORTS D1-8

Wimbledon Semifinals Lineup
Andre Agassi and Patrick Rafter won their quarterfinals matches and will meet tomorrow; Goran Ivanisevic and Tim Henman will meet in the other semifinal. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Europe Rejects Takeover Bill
The European Parliament narrowly rejected a ground-breaking measure intended to help consolidate Europe's fragmented industrial base. The proposal, 12 years in the making, would have forced managers of European companies to consult shareholders about takeover bids. C1

Deal to Avert Actors' Strike
Negotiators for actors and for movie and television producers reached a tentative accord late Tuesday to avert a strike. The three-year deal, which must be approved by the boards and members of the actors' unions, gives actors more money, though less than they sought, and helps producers hold down costs. C1

Online Venture Is Abandoned
Richard Li, the brash tycoon once celebrated as an Asian Internet visionary, said his Hong Kong-based telephone company, Pacific Century Cyberworks, had all but shelved its most ambitious venture in cyberspace, a satellite-delivered entertainment and information network. The company's stock rose nearly 8 percent. C1

A New Sport Utility Inquiry
The Transportation Department has begun a preliminary inquiry into complaints from owners of Jeep Grand Cherokees that the vehicles have shifted on their own from park into reverse while idling or even off. The vehicles under investigation involve the 1995-99 model years. C2

Business Digest C1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Justice O'Connor on executions; stalemate over Iraq; protecting the Gulf of Mexico.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); TORTURE (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); FELONIES (74%); CONSPIRACY (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); POSTCONVICTION PROCEEDINGS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); SMUGGLING (68%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); LEGAL ETHICS (65%); CHILDREN (62%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); TURKEY (92%); GERMANY (90%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



120 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: LACK OF LAWYERS HINDERS APPEALS IN CAPITAL CASES 

BYLINE:  By CRYSTAL NIX HINES 

 BODY:
Dozens of inmates on death row lack lawyers for their appeals, in part because private law firms are increasingly unwilling to take on burdensome, expensive and emotionally wrenching capital cases, death penalty lawyers say.
 The shortage of counsel to help death row inmates file state appeals and federal habeas corpus petitions challenging their convictions and sentences places them at risk of missing crucial filing deadlines, possibly preventing them from raising appeal issues. 
 The situation has potentially dire consequences, experts say, because two out of three appealed death sentences are set aside because of errors by defense lawyers at trial or prosecutorial misconduct, according to the most comprehensive death penalty study to date, by lawyers and criminologists at Columbia University.
Untimely petitions generally are not reviewed by courts without a compelling claim of innocence.
In a speech before Minnesota Women Lawyers on Monday, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the Supreme Court said the problem was one troubling feature of a capital punishment system that she said "may well be allowing some innocent defendants to be executed." 
Justice O'Connor said defendants with more money got better legal defense.
"Perhaps it's time to look at minimum standards for appointed counsel in death cases and adequate compensation for appointed counsel when they are used," she said.
Justice O'Connor is often viewed as a crucial vote on the court between its more liberal and more conservative justices.
"We have a crisis," said Elisabeth Semel, director of the American Bar Association's Death Penalty Representation Project, which seeks to find law firms to represent death row defendants. 
"Firms can save lives and make a difference and they're not doing enough," Ms. Semel said.
There are other reasons for the shortage of counsel, including swelling death row populations and declining government resources to finance public defender organizations.
Nonetheless, Ms. Semel and Lawrence J. Fox, the chairman of the bar association's project and a partner at Drinker, Biddle and Reath in Philadelphia, said many lawyers had told them that increased profit pressures and large raises for associates deterred them from taking the cases.
"They're saying they're paying associates $125,000 a year and can't afford to have someone off spending 1,000 hours on a death penalty case," Mr. Fox said.
To pay for 40 percent salary increases two years ago, many firms also raised billable hour requirements, with some firms either ceasing to count pro bono hours as satisfying such requirements or reducing the weight given to nonbillable hours.
"There's no question about it. Law firms are in competition with each other and are expecting, because they are paying increasingly high salaries to associates, for them to work harder," said Michael A. Cardozo, a partner at Proskauer & Rose in New York and past president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. "There are only so many hours in a day."
Stephen B. Bright, director of the Southern Center for Human Rights in Atlanta, said that although he often appealed to lawyers to accept capital cases, firms had been more reluctant since the salary increases.
The situation is most troublesome in Alabama and Georgia, the only two states that do not guarantee counsel to death row inmates after a direct appeal to the highest state court. These inmates largely rely on volunteer lawyers to raise additional claims in subsequent state reviews and federal habeas corpus petitions, in which federal courts examine proceedings in state courts for error. 
In Alabama, about 40 of the approximately 185 death row inmates -- some within five months of filing deadlines for state appeals -- do not have counsel, said Bryan Stevenson, executive director of the nonprofit Equal Justice Initiative of Alabama. Mr. Stevenson said his five-lawyer staff had taken on more than 100 death penalty cases, "which is way more than we should be involved in."
The seven-lawyer staff of the Georgia Resource Center is juggling 135 capital cases and must decide whether to add 12 more unrepresented inmates, said Thomas H. Dunn, the center's executive director. "It's embarrassing to have to go out and beg people to take these cases," Mr. Dunn said.
The shortage of competent lawyers has taken its toll even in states that guarantee the right to counsel after the initial direct appeal. In Louisiana, at least 10 of about 52 inmates in the appeals process are without lawyers, said Denise LeBoeuf, director of the Capital Post-Conviction Project in New Orleans.
And of the about 600 inmates on California's death row, at least 161 have no lawyers to handle their direct appeals, and 72 others have no counsel for federal habeas corpus petitions, said Robert D. Reichman, automatic appeals monitor for the California Supreme Court. As a result, Mr. Reichman said, some inmates with death sentences dating from 1996 and 1997 have not begun appeals.
Not everyone blames private law firms. Mr. Stevenson said states were primarily to blame for the lack of competent counsel.
"I don't feel the need to beat up on the private bar as much as I feel the need to challenge this notion that states can or should execute people without investing the resources to make sure those executions are fair and just," Mr. Stevenson said. "There are close to 4,000 people on death row, and it's not reasonable to expect that they are all going to be able to get pro bono assistance from private law firms."
Mr. Stevenson said "states have gotten off cheap for two decades by being insensitive to the needs of death row prisoners," and added that they should adequately finance public defender organizations to compete with well-equipped prosecutors' offices.
Law firm leaders disagree about whether their willingness to take capital cases has declined.
Kenneth W. Irvin, a partner at Morrison & Foerster, said that although there were no capital cases in the firm's Washington office, there was "absolutely no restriction about doing death penalty cases or any type of case because it's bad for revenue." Mr. Irvin said the firm prided itself "on the pro bono commitment historically we've always made."
John S. Kiernan, chair of the pro bono committee at Debevoise & Plimpton and a member of the firm's management committee, said that a recently completed survey of 29 law firms in New York by the nonprofit Volunteers of Legal Service showed that firms had met or exceeded the goal of providing at least 30 hours of pro bono work per lawyer per year.
The survey did not specify the kind of pro bono work being done, however, and Mr. Kiernan and other lawyers acknowledged that it was more difficult to find firms that were willing to handle capital cases.
Toni P. Wise, a partner at Cooley Godward in Palo Alto, Calif., said her 700-lawyer firm had represented one death row defendant since 1990 but could not handle another death penalty case until that case concluded.
"Death penalty cases are an unbelievable time sink, and it's very hard to find people who have the resources and the time to take them on," Ms. Wise said.
Mr. Cardozo of Proskauer said his firm represented a death row inmate in Florida for more than 10 years and spent at least $10 million worth of lawyer time. Before taking on another pro bono capital case, he said, the firm would consider a number of factors, including its impact on other pro bono work.
"While I certainly wouldn't compare the plight of a person who doesn't get Social Security benefits or can't find a place to sleep with someone on death row, when a firm takes on a death row case, with the hours involved, other pro bono work in some way has got to decrease," he said.
"It's a terrible thing to say you're balancing one type of case against another, but one has to be practical."
Mr. Cardozo said death penalty cases also did not provide associates with the same learning experience as other pro bono cases because the stakes were too high to allow them to play primary roles.
Death penalty lawyers complain that the shortage in their ranks is also forcing inmates to rely on incompetent or overworked court-appointed lawyers who miss filing deadlines, fail to investigate cases or submit inadequate appeals. Some have even fallen asleep while prosecutors put on their case, Mr. Bright said.
The Texas Legislature recently passed a measure designed to create minimum standards for court-appointed lawyers and provide $20 million a year in state funding.
The lack of competent counsel to handle capital cases was a significant factor in the American Bar Association's decision to call for a moratorium on executions, said James E. Coleman, a professor of law at Duke University and past chair of the bar association's Section on Individual Rights and Responsibilities.
Factors other than economic pressures have made death penalty work less appealing, said Ronald J. Tabak, special counsel and coordinator of pro bono work at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York. Those factors include increased complexity of the law governing habeas corpus petitions and termination in 1995 of federal money for local death penalty resource centers. These centers provided firms with expertise on local law and access to in-state investigators and experts, but with most of them shut down or truncated, Mr. Tabak said, firms must fend for themselves.
Until more lawyers step forward, death penalty lawyers continue to race against the clock. "There's probably not a night when you could stop by here and not find someone at two or three o'clock in the morning," said Mr. Dunn, of the Georgia Resource Center.
Ruth Friedman, a senior lawyer at the Equal Justice Initiative, said she frequently received calls or letters from inmates wondering how their appeals are proceeding. "It's heartbreaking," Ms. Friedman said, "to know what to say to them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bryan Stevenson, executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative, and his five-lawyer staff have taken on more than 100 convicts on death row. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (95%); LAWYERS (91%); PETITIONS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (89%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (78%); HABEAS CORPUS (78%); LAW FIRM ASSOCIATE SALARIES (78%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (73%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (64%) CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; LEGAL PROFESSION; LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR 

COMPANY: DRINKER BIDDLE & REATH LLP (84%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: HINES, CRYSTAL NIX; O'CONNOR, SANDRA DAY (ASSOC JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



121 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: Extortion Case Explores Rifts in Korean Enclave in Queens 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
Last fall, Soon Hee Park, who as a waitress had scraped together her tips and her life's savings to open her own restaurant in Flushing, decided she wanted to run advertisements in The Korea Tribune, a weekly newspaper aimed at the Queens neighborhood's Korean residents. For $100, the newspaper was to publish four ads and design a Web page promoting Mrs. Park's broiled salmon and her sushi, the publisher told her.
 Soon after she made the payment, Mrs. Park and her husband, Young Chan Park, who runs the restaurant with her, began scouring The Tribune, a free weekly filled with ads for Korean businesses and often stacked in restaurants and supermarkets around Flushing. But there was no sign of her ads, she said. 
 When she confronted the Korea Tribune publisher, Bryan Kim, the man who had sold her the advertisements that Mrs. Park says she never saw published in the weekly, things turned ugly: she demanded her $100 back and he got angry, continuing to pressure her to pay for more ads, Mrs. Park, 41, told Queens prosecutors. Mr. Kim then threatened to bomb the restaurant, publish an article about her stealing tips from her waitresses and make bogus complaints of bug infestation to the City Health Department, she told prosecutors. 
"I couldn't understand why he was doing this," Mrs. Park said through a translator recently. "I have worked here for 16 years and finally I have my own restaurant. And then this guy comes here and tries to shut it down."
In April, Mr. Kim, 42, was arrested and accused of extorting money from Mrs. Park and four other Korean merchants, as prosecutors charged that he had tried to force the merchants into paying for advertising, threatening to smear them with false articles about infidelity or fabricated scandals about their businesses.
A Queens grand jury is hearing evidence in the case against Mr. Kim, the publisher, editor, reporter and advertising chief of the 10,000-circulation paper, which stopped publishing after Mr. Kim's arrest. The grand jury is expected to issue its decision soon. Through his lawyer, Mr. Kim said that he was innocent and that all the articles he wrote about the merchants were true.
The case against Mr. Kim is an unusual instance in which victims of swindles involving immigrants preying upon their own countrymen have been willing to come forward, prosecutors say. And while the case against Mr. Kim may be extreme, shopkeepers, editors and immigration experts say the case provides a window into a murky and potentially volatile set of relationships at work every day in immigrant neighborhoods across the city. 
The weekly foreign-language newspapers, whose numbers have exploded in recent years, are closely read by immigrants and can hold considerable influence in their communities. They are free and widely distributed, but often short-lived and generally not as trusted as the more established daily ethnic publications.
And most important, according to experts on the ethnic press, the weekly newspapers operate on shoestring budgets, with one person wearing all the hats, from publisher to columnist. The lines between advertising and news, persuasion and intimidation can often become blurred, the experts say.
"Many people see this as a business rather than as a journalistic mission," said Sreenath Sreenivasan, a co-founder of the South Asian Journalists Association and a professor of journalism at Columbia University. "Most of the organizations are good and they are committed to journalism, but the bad apples show you how deep the problem is."
Prosecutors around the city say they have heard occasional grumbling from within the insular world of the ethnic press about the pressures on merchants to advertise -- and there was at least one arrest on charges similar to those made against Mr. Kim involving the publisher of an Indian weekly in Manhattan. But the task of sorting out the particulars has been daunting.
And even if they manage to get wind of a situation that has crossed the line from pressure to intimidation or worse, prosecutors are rarely able to make legal cases. Newspaper publishers like Mr. Kim, a former prominent real estate broker who is an influential figure among Koreans in Flushing, often wield formidable power in tightknit immigrant communities.
"This is a very, very gray area," said Brian J. Mich, chief of the economic crimes and arson bureau for the Queens district attorney's office. "The publishers approach the merchants and then ask for advertising and because of the low budgets of these papers, there is a strong tie between the editorial and advertising departments."
Among the perhaps hundreds of weekly ethnic newspapers published in New York City -- the number fluctuates often as the publications open and shut -- are hard-working journalists who say they hold themselves to the same legal and ethical standards as the mainstream press in New York, including marking strict lines between the advertising and editorial departments.
"There is a total separation of church and state here," said Veena Merchant, deputy publisher of India Abroad, one of the largest Indian weeklies in the United States. "When we started, we were an eight-page paper and I used to lick labels and mail out the papers. But the publisher had an ethos and we followed it."
In recent years, there have been at least a few cases in which aggressive weekly publishers have wound up in legal trouble.
John Perry, the former publisher of The News India-Times, a weekly in Manhattan, was described by competitors and experts on the Indian press as someone who tried to pressure merchants into taking out ads. He was convicted in 1997 by a federal jury of conspiracy, mail fraud and obstruction of justice growing out his management of the paper, including charges that he defrauded advertisers. He was sentenced to almost four years in prison, a sentence that was slightly reduced on appeal.
In Flushing, the case involving Mr. Kim has reverberated for months, as a debate rages over the intentions of the powerful man at its center. Is he merely a muckraking journalist who has embarrassed people who are now seeking vengeance in court? Or is he a slandering profiteer with a violent temper?
Mr. Kim, a Korean immigrant who moved to Queens from Los Angeles, was well known in Flushing for his successful real estate business before he started publishing The Korea Tribune in 1997. Mr. Park, the restaurant owner whose wife complained to the authorities about Mr. Kim, had even secured an apartment through his rental office.
But Mr. Kim's business began to suffer after he was arrested in 1996 on a sexual assault charge, which was later dismissed. People who know him said that after the arrest he threw his energy into the newspaper, hoping to expose false arrests and other problems affecting Koreans.
And since he began publishing, Mr. Kim's articles have caused a stir in the community, with many subjects, including several Korean-American ministers, complaining to others in the Korean enclave that he was making things up to extort them into paying for advertising.
Prosecutors said that before he made the threats against Mrs. Park, Mr. Kim had already approached another Korean immigrant, who owns a Flushing nightclub, demanding $1,000 a month to advertise the nightclub in The Korea Tribune. If he refused to pay, Mr. Kim said he would "smear" the business and "send Korean gang members to trash" the club, according to the criminal complaint filed against him.
Byung Sook Lee, the president of the Korean Women's Business Association in Queens and one of the people who has complained to prosecutors about Mr. Kim, said in an interview that Mr. Kim approached her last spring, asking if she wanted to place an advertisement in The Korea Tribune for her organization. She said that during the initial conversation, Mr. Kim told her that if she did not advertise, he would write a "negative" article about her.
She said she refused to place an advertisement and then found herself the subject of what she said was a false article in The Tribune saying she was running an illicit massage parlor.
Two days after his arrest, Mr. Kim published a special issue of The Tribune, reprinting articles about the people, including Ms. Lee and a Korean minister -- whose photograph appeared on the front page of that issue -- who had complained to the authorities or others about the publisher's tactics.
In the special issue, Mr. Kim also published a new article about Mrs. Park, the Flushing restaurant owner, asking her to drop the charges and adding: "By the way, last time we met I asked you if you were stealing tips from your waitresses. Maybe you were worried about that. But no way would I, Bryan Kim, write something like that."
Mr. Kim would not comment for this article. But his lawyer, Matthew J. Jeon, said his client was innocent of all the extortion charges and "supremely confident" of the veracity of everything he published.
Mr. Jeon characterized the case against Mr. Kim as "politically motivated," because one of the people who persuaded some of the merchants to file a criminal complaint, Terence Park, is running for the City Council in Flushing.
Mr. Park said in a interview that Mr. Kim had published an advertisement last October for his campaign without his consent and then demanded $500 for it. He said that after several confrontations with Mr. Kim, he sought out merchants and religious leaders about whom he had read negative articles in The Tribune. Few would come forward, he said, adding that a few Korean ministers had told him they agreed to pay Mr. Kim rather than have sensational articles printed about them. 
Mrs. Park, the restaurant owner, obtained an order of protection against Mr. Kim, but his lawyer said that the move was unwarranted and that the criminal complaints were "payback" for embarrassing articles.
"What, they are afraid of paper and pen and a computer?" he said.
The Parks, who are not related to the City Council candidate, said they were plenty fearful of Mr. Kim's newspaper. What had haunted them most, they said, was that someone from their own country had tried, in their view, to destroy them.
"In the end, I feel like this is a really sad situation," Mr. Park said. "It's Koreans fighting each other. It's our own brother turning against us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tribune has not been printed since its publisher was arrested. (pg. B7); Bryan Kim, the publisher. (pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); RETAILERS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); GRAND JURY (87%); IMMIGRATION (86%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); EVIDENCE (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); LAWYERS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (51%) NEWSPAPERS; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; KOREAN-AMERICANS; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: KOREA TRIBUNE 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH; KIM, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



122 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Entry Into W.T.O. Makes Significant Advance 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 4 

 BODY:
China moved closer to joining the World Trade Organization today in what a high-level official called a major breakthrough in the negotiations.
 Diplomats said the momentum achieved in talks the last week made it certain that the world's ninth-biggest trading power would enter the 141-member W.T.O. early next year at the latest. 
 "I can say we have achieved a major breakthrough on the important issues," said Pierre-Louis Girard, chairman of the W.T.O. working panel that is negotiating the terms under which Beijing would enter. 
"I think I can say with confidence that we will be wrapping up this process in the very, very near future," he told a news conference.
China's top negotiator, Long Yongtu, said he was in total agreement with Mr. Girard's assessment.
Officials of the European Union and the United States said in separate briefings that they also saw no remaining barrier to China's joining the W.T.O. within the next six months.
One problem that emerged this week was the concern of developing nations -- especially India -- over the possible implications of a United States-China agreement on farm subsidy limits. An American official said that issue had largely been resolved.
Another concern, involving differences between the United States and Europe over foreign insurance companies already established in China, was likely to be resolved soon, diplomats said. 
"We hope that this advance will lead us to be able to make the formal decision on China's membership in Doha," a top European Union negotiator, Karl Falkenberg, said. The W.T.O. trade ministers are scheduled to meet in November in Doha in Qatar.
"In my view, we have made extraordinary progress. I think it is fair to say the end is in sight," said a senior American trade official who insisted on anonymity. China seems headed to become a member by the start of 2002, he added.
Mr. Long said he hoped textual details of all entry accords could be wrapped up at W.T.O. talks that start on July 16.
Mr. Falkenberg said he expected there could be some loose ends to be cleared up at the next meeting "and then hopefully we can gavel the whole thing through."
Mike Moore, director general of the organization, who has made Chinese admission a central focus of his three-year term, said it would be a "splendid thing" if the final clearance came in Qatar.
China's admission will give its exporters guaranteed access to world markets -- a prospect that is ringing alarms in some countries, especially Mexico, where local industries see a threat.
Mexico has yet to complete its own negotiations with China on their future trade, but Mexican sources confirmed their country would not block an overall accord.
Mexican officials were to meet Mr. Long and his team on Thursday in Geneva.
Mexico wants China to keep a tough antidumping agreement for at least another 13 years; China says five years is the maximum.
If all goes well, a new session of the working panel in mid-September will formally endorse an entry package, leaving the parliaments of the W.T.O. countries two months to ratify it. The deal then needs the approval of China's parliament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (51%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GIRARD, PIERRE-LOUIS; LONG YONGTU 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



123 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Growing Trade Advantage 

BYLINE:  By Robert M. Dunn Jr.; Robert M. Dunn Jr. is an economics professor at George Washington University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush has now repackaged "fast track" authority as "trade promotion" authority, hoping that a little marketing might push the legislation through Congress.
 By either name, this authority gives the president the right to negotiate trade deals that Congress must accept or reject, but not amend. But even some supporters of free trade wonder whether the battle, already lost under President Clinton, is worth pursuing. After all, we have liberalized trade and we are still phasing in the North American Free Trade Agreement and the 1994 global trade agreement that created the World Trade Organization. Why not just leave things as they are and avoid unnecessary trouble? 
 That would be a reasonable argument if our major trading partners and competitors had stood still. Unfortunately, in recent years, they have reached many agreements from which we are excluded. The European Union is well on its way to admitting a number of new members, and each new arrival will deprive the United States of export sales. For instance, we now compete against other European countries for sales in Poland without any competitive disadvantage -- every country faces tariffs. But in a few years, when Poland is likely to have joined the union, E.U. members will probably no longer face tariffs on sales to Poland, and our exports will be at a distinct disadvantage.
Europe, however, is not our biggest problem. Mexico wins that prize. It has aggressively pursued agreements with three big markets -- North America, the European Union and Latin America (through individual agreements with many countries, including Chile, Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Uruguay and Nicaragua). These agreements have allowed Mexico to construct a unique hub-and-spoke trading bloc, with itself as the hub and its partners as spokes.
No other country has such agreements with so many large, varied markets. Under Mexico's agreement with the European Union, enacted last year, tariffs on all industrial products have already been cut sharply and will be fully eliminated by 2007. Because of the European Union's common agricultural policy, farm products could not be included, but many services like banking and insurance will be liberalized.
Undoubtedly, the United States benefits from a more prosperous and stable Mexico, but the Mexican hub-and-spoke trading bloc creates serious problems for our exports. Mexico is the only developing country that can export a wide range of goods without tariffs to the United States, but our exports will have to compete in the Mexican market, without advantage, against all members of the European Union: neither American nor E.U. exports will be subject to tariffs in Mexico. In addition, American products will continue to face tariffs in Europe, while Mexican products will not. The same circumstance will prevail in the Latin American countries with which Mexico has agreements.
A European company that wants to build a factory that will export goods without tariffs to the United States and to much of Latin America has but one choice for location: Mexico. An American company that wants to build a factory that will export goods without tariffs to Europe and many Latin America countries also has only one option -- Mexico.
America's goal should be clear: Start making trade agreements. If the United States could reach a free-trade agreement with the European Union, that would eliminate Mexico's advantage in that huge market. Indeed, if this country could get free-trade deals with all of the countries with which Mexico has pacts, we would no longer be at a disadvantage.
It is time for Congress to approve presidential trade authority. President Bush needs this power to advance American interests. It is time for the United States to get back in the game.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Felipe Galindo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (63%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%) DUNN, ROBERT M JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); POLAND (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



124 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Turnaround Experts Land Atop Recruiters' Wish Lists
Two years ago, Edward J. Zander, the president and chief operating officer of Sun Microsystems, created a division to cater to the company's telecommunications clients -- and four months ago, as the industry fell apart, he collapsed that division into the company's hardware business.
 Mr. Zander's name appears on several companies' wish lists, along with other executives who specialize in turning companies around. Page C6. 

Inquiry Into Possible Jeep Defects
The Transportation Department has opened a preliminary investigation into complaints from owners of 1995-1999 Jeep Grand Cherokees that the vehicles have shifted themselves from park into reverse. The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration has 48 reports of such incidents, causing 32 crashes and 14 injuries. The engine was running in 29 cases and shut off in 19. C2.

Hyundai Is Plagued by Problems
The financial problems of the Hyundai Group, South Korea's largest conglomerate before its breakup last year, have dominated the country's problems as finance officials have wrestled with a slowing economy. C4.

Living-Wage Movement Catches On
The living-wage movement is spreading, and advocates for living wages are fighting battles for state and city minimum wages. It would be too bad if economists used their considerable persuasive power to undermine the movement. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene C2.

Chinese Membership in W.T.O.
Chinese efforts to gain membership in the World Trade Organization made significant progress in Geneva as high-level officials said the momentum achieved in talks the last week made it certain China will enter the organization next year at the latest. C2.

U.S. Financial Markets Open
The financial markets in the United States are open today after being closed in observance of the Fourth of July.

GRAPHIC: The first and second quarters probably have been slower for the industry, according to conversations I've had with manufacturers and builders, said John J. Sergol Jr., acting executive director for the National Spa and Pool Institute. But the industry is optimistic for better sales, he said, noting that the strength in the housing market may bring a rise in home pool purchases as well. Housing has a been a bright spot during the recent economic slowdown, with permits for new housing up 2.1 percent in May. Graph tracks sales of residential pools (Above ground and In ground) since 1996. Graph tracks Year-Over-Year Change in Pool Sales (Above Ground and In Ground) since 1997.(Source: PK Data)Graph: "Making a Splash"Sales of residential pools have been rising for the past five years, reaching $6 billion last year, and in 2000 the sales of more expensive in-ground pools grew by more than 8 percent. But, in keeping with the current economic climate, experts are predicting slower growth for 2001.The first and second quarters probably have been slower for the industry, according to conversations I've had with manufacturers and builders, said John J. Sergol Jr., acting executive director for the National Spa and Pool Institute. But the industry is optimistic for better sales, he said, noting that the strength in the housing market may bring a rise in home pool purchases as well. Housing has a been a bright spot during the recent economic slowdown, with permits for new housing up 2.1 percent in May. Graph tracks sales of residential pools (Above ground and In ground) since 1996. Graph tracks Year-Over-Year Change in Pool Sales (Above Ground and In Ground) since 1997.(Source: PK Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING WAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (69%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI GROUP (83%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SPA & POOL INSTITUTE (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: EDWARD J ZANDER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



125 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: While Economy Boomed, Money for Lobbyists Soared 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Last year's surging economy and the related jump in major construction projects in New York fueled the largest increase in spending on lobbyists in at least a decade, as developers turned to lawyers and other well-connected professionals to urge city officials to give them permits needed before any shovels could hit the ground.
 Over all, $14.5 million was spent on lobbyists in 2000, an increase of nearly 15 percent compared with spending in 1999, according to an annual report to be released today by the city clerk's office. That means that so far during the Giuliani administration, which started in 1994, the amount spent trying to lobby City Hall, adjusted for inflation, has jumped by almost 50 percent. 
 Much of the money paid to lobbyists last year was for the kind of work traditionally associated with the trade: meeting with City Council members and senior Giuliani administration officials to try to persuade them to pass or defeat legislation that was pending or about to be introduced. 
Billboard advertisers, for example, spent at least $75,000 trying unsuccessfully to dissuade the Council from passing a law restricting the size and location of large outdoor signs. Lobbyists representing tobacco companies -- which are opposed to a further tightening of indoor smoking bans -- spent at least $27,000. And the nation's largest trash haulers invested at least $50,000 on lobbying during a year in which the Council adopted a plan governing how the city's 24,000 tons of residential and commercial garbage are disposed of each day.
But the increase in lobbying appears to be tied largely to money for professionals who helped shepherd major construction projects through the city's sometimes byzantine land-use review process.
The top lobbying bill, for example, was paid by the Museum of Modern Art, which spent $323,094 last year on Rosenman & Colin, a city law firm, as it sought approval for the reconstruction and expansion of its quarters on West 53rd Street. 
Gary R. Tarnoff, the partner at Rosenman & Colin who handled the matter, is no novice to the process. He is the former deputy chief of the city corporation counsel's office, which handles land-use and zoning matters. The museum last year also won a $65 million commitment from the city toward its expansion effort, an allotment that had to be approved by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the Council.
American Airlines, the next biggest spender, paid $180,000 to a lobbyist as it sought approval for its new $1.3 billion terminal now under construction at Kennedy Airport. The city is arranging about $1 billion in tax-exempt bonds to finance the project, and the airline will pay off those bonds. 
"It is a project that everyone wanted, but the complicated legal issues with the city and the Port Authority made it time-consuming," said Claudia A. Wagner, who handled the matter for the airline.
Not all of the lobbying was related to uncontroversial projects.
Ferry Point Partners, a developer building an 18-hole golf course, clubhouse and driving range on a former landfill in the Bronx, paid a $162,579 lobbyist bill.
The project was enthusiastically backed by the Giuliani administration, and it is being built at the city's Ferry Point Park on the East River, beneath the approach to the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge. But environmental groups and neighbors tried to block it, saying the city was ignoring threats to the health of people living nearby. They suggested that the construction could push flammable methane in the landfill out to the edges of the site, closer to homes.
Lobbyists also worked to defeat or at least delay some major projects, including three different proposals by the Costco Wholesale Corporation to build stores in Manhattan, as well as a plan by ShopRite supermarkets to build a new store in Flatlands, a neighborhood in Brooklyn.
Richard Lipsky, a city lobbyist, represented some of the opponents of these projects: owners of small grocery stores and neighborhood shops, as well as a company that serves as their supplier. His strategy was to try to build community opposition to the project. But he also met with Councilwoman Christine Quinn of Manhattan and Councilman Herbert E. Berman of Brooklyn, among others, to push his cause.
"It is not like the traditional back-room image of lobbying," he said. "It was only after we had the community opposition that we reached out to the elected officials to make sure we have the political support necessary to defeat the projects."
The list of the city's top 10 lobbyists, for the most part, looks largely the way it did in 1999. 
Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker, a law firm that lobbies for a long list of clients in both New York City and Albany, won the most work, taking in $1.2 million. Two law firms that handle real estate-related work in the city -- Rosenman & Colin and Greenberg Traurig -- entered the top 10.
Meanwhile, Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding, a law and lobbying firm with close ties to the Giuliani administration, dropped off the top 10 list, collecting $322,621 in lobbying fees, a 17 percent drop. But the firm, the home of Raymond B. Harding, the state Liberal Party leader, and Herman Badillo, a Republican candidate for mayor, still has a long list of clients, including plumbers and real estate developers.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday about lobbying in New York City misidentified the firm employed last year by the State Association of Adult Homes and Assisted Living Facilities. It was Coppola Ryan McHugh, not Cooperman Levitt Winikoff Lester & Newman.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Lobbying City Hall"Spending on lobbyists in 2000 hit another record, reaching $14.5 million, which is nearly 15 percent more than in 1999, the largest jump in spending in at least a decade. Here are the organizations that spent at least $100,000 trying to influence City Hall. Client: Museum of Modern ArtLobbyist: Rosenman & ColinSpending: $323,094 Client: American AirlinesLobbyist: Claudia A. WagnerSpending: $180,000 Client: Neighborhood Retail AllianceLobbyist: Richard Lipsky AssociatesSpending: $167,500 Client: Ferry Point PartnersLobbyist: Greenberg TraurigSpending: $162,579 Client: Empire State Association of Adult Homes and Assisted Living FacilitiesLobbyist: Cooperman Levitt Winikoff Lester & NewmanSpending: $150,000 Client: National Association of Securities DealersLobbyist: Stadtmauer BailkinSpending: $122,486 Client: Greater New York Hospital AssociationLobbyist: Kenneth E. RaskeSpending: $110,401 Client: TAM RestaurantLobbyist: Davidoff & MalitoSpending: $110,051 Client: Related CompaniesLobbyist: Wachtel & MasyrSpending: $107,672 Client: Independent Payphone AssociationLobbyist: Norman A. LevySpending: $100,500 Client: New York City PartnershipLobbyist: N.Y.C. Partnership and Chamber of CommerceSpending: $100,917 Client: Hotel Association of New York CityLobbyist: Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman & DickerSpending: $100,000 (Source: Office of the City Clerk)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ZONING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); SMOKING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); SMOKING BANS (66%); TAX LAW (66%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (65%); AIRPORTS (63%); AIRLINES (63%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY 

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



126 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate Over Iraq 

 BODY:
Faced with intractable Russian opposition, Washington has sensibly postponed its efforts to reconfigure sanctions against Iraq till a later date and accepted an extension of existing arrangements for five more months. That gives the Bush administration time to work out a satisfactory compromise with Moscow. Iraq policy should be high on the list of subjects President Bush discusses when he meets again with President Vladimir Putin of Russia later this month. 
 For many weeks, America and Britain have sought support for a new United Nations Security Council resolution that would ease restrictions on Baghdad's imports of consumer goods while tightening enforcement of the ban on Iraqi imports of weapons and their components. Those changes are important, and not just as an answer to humanitarian complaints about unnecessary economic privations imposed on Iraqi civilians. Iraq has become increasingly successful at selling smuggled oil through Turkey and Jordan. That has allowed Saddam Hussein to evade the U.N. financial controls that are supposed to prevent him from using oil revenues to purchase arms. 
 With no U.N. weapons inspectors in Iraq for the past two and a half years, there is a growing danger that Iraq is secretly rebuilding its biological, chemical and nuclear arms programs. The new Security Council resolution, proposed by London and backed by Washington, would make that harder. It would tighten border controls against illegal arms imports and, by broadening the range of goods available to Iraqi civilians, make it politically easier for neighboring countries to crack down on Iraqi oil smuggling. For those reasons, Mr. Hussein strongly opposes the new resolution. Instead he demands early steps to terminate sanctions and remove international financial controls. Russia is siding with Iraq, as it frequently has in the past. 
Just a month ago Moscow cast a preliminary U.N. vote in favor of the concepts being promoted by Washington and London. But then it fell into line with Baghdad. France and China, two other countries that have sometimes leaned toward Iraq in the Security Council, this time seemed ready to support the British and American approach, as did every other Council member except Russia. 
Moscow has now isolated itself almost completely. It alone is responsible for delaying early relief to Iraqi civilians. That is not a very promising way for Russia to advance Mr. Putin's goal of rebuilding Moscow's diplomatic influence in the Arab world and at the U.N. Mr. Hussein suffered an embarrassment of his own Tuesday when it became known that at least one senior Iraqi diplomat at the U.N. was seeking asylum in the United States. 
As Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin wisely recognized when they met last month, constructive relations between Russia and America can serve both countries. Of the many issues now dividing the two, sanctions on Iraq should be one of the easier ones to resolve. Thwarting Saddam Hussein's efforts to build unconventional weapons would enhance the security of both the United States and Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (56%) IRAQ; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



127 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Some Clinton Policies Find a Home With Bush 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., June 30 

 BODY:
From the stage of a small auditorium at Harvard, Robert E. Rubin prodded the Bush administration to carry on Bill Clinton's economic policies. And in many ways it is. Despite their clashes, a number of Mr. Clinton's policies march on under President Bush.
 Not every policy is making the transition, of course. Deficit reduction, which started in the administration of Mr. Bush's father and produced a budget surplus in the Clinton years, may not survive the son's $1.35 trillion tax cut. And Mr. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, lamented this lapse, making his case at a conference here on American economic policy in the 1990's -- in effect the Clinton legacy. 
 The more than 70 participants included many economists who had held posts in the Clinton administration. But others served Republican administrations, including the new one. And what came out of their discussions at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government were not the differences in policy, but the common ground in half a dozen crucial areas. 
"There have been enormous continuities," said Roger Porter, a Kennedy school economist and a Republican who served in the administrations of Gerald R. Ford, Ronald Reagan and George Bush, "and the big driver of this continuity has been a much greater reliance on market forces to allocate resources."
Just as the Clinton administration carried on policies inherited from the Bush years, now the son is picking up the ball from Mr. Clinton. Clinton-era contributions, many of them supported by mainstream Republicans, are appearing, in one form or another, in the new administration's free-trade policies, in its preference for tax credits rather than public spending, in its approval of electric power deregulation, in its endorsement of a strong dollar, in its enthusiasm for the North American Free Trade Agreement and in its support for a Clinton decision to let the private sector, rather than government, manage the Internet.
The tax credits are a striking example of this continuity. Democrats attacked the new tax law for skewing its rewards to the rich and for draining much of the surplus. But the law quietly carried over Clinton-era tax credits that in effect subsidize job training, college tuition, heating fuel, child care and, through the Earned Income Tax Credit, the incomes of the working poor. Unable to push through any of his early spending proposals, Mr. Clinton made tax credits his principal social policy, and that is also the Bush approach, so far.
A few of the tax credits were even increased in the new law, although one Republican economist at last week's conference -- Martin Feldstein of Harvard, who served in the Reagan administration -- expressed the hope that in time the tax credits would be phased out in favor of a new round of tax rate cuts. "True tax reform is hard to push for in an election campaign," he said.
In a different baliwick, the Democratic Party had resisted for years any effort to give the private sector a role in Social Security. In this tradition, the Clinton administration opposed a proposal to channel a small part of the payroll tax earmarked for Social Security into private retirement accounts, as Mr. Bush would like to do. But in the late 1990's, Mr. Clinton called for a national debate that would cover all of the proposed alternatives for fixing Social Security. His goal was to have the debate and come up with a compromise while he was still president. The impeachment process undid that plan, and now the debate is likely to take place while Mr. Bush is president.
"Clinton in effect shut off the power in the third rail," said Jeffrey Frankel, an economist at Harvard and a member of Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. "He made it legitimate to discuss ways of putting Social Security on a sound footing."
On the international front, President Bush gave ground. An initial resistance to overseas bailouts -- the sort of bailouts that the Clinton administration invoked for Mexico and Southeast Asia -- gave way recently to tacit support. No objection was raised to an emergency loan package from the International Monetary Fund to crisis-stricken Turkey.
"There is an instinctual desire on the part of the Bush people to let the markets take their course," said Barry Eichengreen, an international economist at the University of California at Berkeley and a former policy adviser to the I.M.F. "But in Turkey, and now Argentina, they are finding the consequences alarming."
There are significant disagreements, of course. New reductions in tax rates, as Mr. Feldstein suggested, would surely draw fire from Democrats, who hope to reverse some of the future cuts included in the just-enacted tax law before they take effect. 
When it comes to economic policy, nothing divides the two parties more than the new tax law, which reduces the budget surplus by $1.35 trillion over 10 years and channels the greatest part of that money to wealthy Americans. The on-budget surplus -- that is, government operations other than Social Security -- might even disappear, Democrats charge, as tax revenues fall in a weak economy.
Mr. Rubin, in his presentation, focused on what he described as the stimulus to economic growth from tightening fiscal policy and the surplus that this discipline finally produced. 
"Fiscal discipline promoted economic growth and economic growth promoted fiscal discipline, and that went back and forth," he said, arguing in effect that deficit reduction made possible the booming prosperity in the late 90's.
Certainly, Mr. Clinton had picked up the ball from his predecessor, President George Bush. Right from the start, Mr. Rubin said, deficit reduction was a Clinton priority. Under the pressure of a rising deficit in the early 1990's, Mr. Clinton soon abandoned his expansive plans for federal spending, which fell during the Clinton years as a share of the total economy.
That move drew criticism at last week's conference from only one participant. Fiscal constraint makes no sense, said Lawrence Mishel, chief economist at the Economic Policy Institute, "when it is carried to the point of paying down the national debt at the expense of spending for education, health, public transportation and other social needs." 
Whatever the pain, Mr. Clinton's 1993 tax law was similar to Mr. Bush's 1990 legislation in its combination of tax increases and spending cuts -- an approach that the new tax law and current budget policy reverses. Not surprisingly, the new Bush administration rejects the view of Mr. Rubin that the dwindling deficit and emerging surplus produced the boom in the second half of the 1990's. By encouraging the bond market to lower interest rates, Mr. Rubin argued, that approach contributed mightily to the surge in stock prices, consumption and capital spending.
"That is a much-overtold story," said R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, who participated for half a day at the conference here. 
"The surplus may well have put downward pressure on interest rates," Mr. Hubbard said, "but the reason for the improved fiscal situation derives largely from faster growth, not the other way around. And sure, if you have slower growth, all other things being equal, you can expect lower tax revenues and a smaller surplus."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, second from left, said at a conference last week at Harvard that President Bush would be wise to carry on the economic policies of the Clinton administration. (Scott Mullen/Harvard University)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US DOLLAR (74%); APPROVALS (71%); TUITION FEES (71%); DEREGULATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; RUBIN, ROBERT E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



128 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron 

 BODY:
It's a Wrap; It's a Laugh
The sportscaster WARNER WOLF got to say his signature phrase, "Let's go to the videotape," on a movie set. But only after the director RON HOWARD had yelled "cut" for the last time.
It happened last month when Mr. Wolf was hired as a background actor for a scene in "A Beautiful Mind," the film about JOHN FORBES NASH JR., the mathematician whose career was derailed in the 1950's by paranoid schizophrenia. 
 "Ron Howard put me in a great spot," Mr. Wolf said. "This comes at the end of the movie, where RUSSELL CROWE accepts his Pulitzer Prize." 
 Wait. Wasn't the prize that Mr. Nash won a Nobel, not a Pulitzer?
"His Nobel Peace Prize," Mr. Wolf said. "Exactly."
Well, not exactly. The Nobel that Mr. Nash won, in 1994, was in economics. But back to Mr. Wolf and the movie. 
"Ron Howard's right-hand man, he comes up to me and says, 'When Ron Howard says it's the final take and it's a wrap, the crew wants you to say, "Let's go to the videotape," ' " Mr. Wolf recalled. "I said, 'I'm not going to do that. This is serious business.' "
Mr. Wolf relented when the assistant assured him that Mr. Howard would find it funny. All Mr. Wolf had to do was wait for his cue.
"Finally," Mr. Wolf said, "about 3 o'clock in the morning, he said, 'It's a wrap.' So I said, 'Let's go to the videotape.' Everybody started laughing. I was surprised at the reaction. And Ron Howard did laugh."

Back to the Restoration
JANET L. HANCHEY, who has refurbished gilded ceilings at Radio City Music Hall and entire rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, is returning to an 18th-century mural she had all but finished refurbishing when it was damaged by fire. The mural is in Fraunces Tavern, the landmark in Lower Manhattan that was preparing to open next month after extensive renovations. But the fire on Friday left Ms. Hanchey frustrated and back on the job.
"We just spent two months restoring this mural, the view from 1717 of New York harbor," she said. "Now there's so much blistering and cracks, and there's soot. We're going to have to erase every square inch with an eraser. It's going to be more time-consuming to do this than it was to restore the whole thing the first time."
The 16-by-5-foot mural is in a room of the tavern, a replica built in the early 1900's of the building on that site where George Washington bade farewell to his troops with a toast at the end of the American Revolution in 1783. The cause of the fire has not been determined.
"Luckily I didn't put the final three coats of varnish on it," Ms. Hanchey said, referring to the mural. "I think that would have ignited the whole thing. Now it's all baked on with a black coat."

Talking Shop, Talking Nudity
DICK CLARK was talking about cholesterol (his) and television shows (ditto).
Being Dick Clark, after his doctor prescribed cholesterol-lowering medication, he signed on as the spokesman for a cholesterol-lowering campaign that begins next week. And in the fall, he will become a co-host of a syndicated talk show that is being marketed as a male counterpoint to "The View," the ABC talk show with five co-hosts, all women.
"We'll be four guys talking about things women can identify with," Mr. Clark said. "They've got a catch phrase, 'The world of women seen through the eyes of men.' Some guy in a cubicle sat for hours figuring that out. The essence is women don't get to see four men sitting around talking."
The women on "The View" are already talking. As Mr. Clark tells it, one morning last month, the topic was which men women would pay to see nude. JOY BEHAR said there were only two: LUCIANO PAVAROTTI and Mr. Clark.
"I sent her a note: 'I'm sorry you're late. I get thousands of requests every week, but we could trade. If you took off all your clothes, I'm sure that under those zippy 'View' garments, you're something to see. P.S. See you at the Daytime Emmys.' They liked it so much they read it on the air and said, 'See you in your Speedo.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); FILM (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); PAINTING (66%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FIRES (60%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (55%); MENTAL ILLNESS (55%) CHOLESTEROL; HEART; MOTION PICTURES; ART; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FIRES AND FIREMEN; RESTAURANTS; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: FRAUNCES TAVERN (NYC) 

PERSON: RON HOWARD (90%) WOLF, WARNER; CLARK, DICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: BEAUTIFUL MIND, A (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001 



129 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION; 
The Other Utopia Jefferson Founded

BYLINE:  By PAULA DEITZ; Paula Deitz is the editor of The Hudson Review.

 BODY:
While everyone else lolled on the beach or barbecued in the backyard, 75 people from 34 countries celebrated Independence Day this week in Charlottesville, Va., by taking the oath of citizenship on the west lawn of Monticello, the home of Thomas Jefferson. This year, the annual ceremony was held on the 225th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, drafted by Jefferson, and also recalled his own death exactly 50 years later on July 4, 1826.
 Though Jefferson laid the groundwork for a new nation, nowhere are his goals and values felt more in the present than in his hometown of Charlottesville, not only at Monticello but also at the University of Virginia, the great educational and design achievement of the last nine years of his life. While the neo-Classical domed image of Monticello has gained symbolic familiarity on the reverse of the nickel, the bits and pieces of the university -- the much spoken-of serpentine brick walls, colonnades and rotunda -- are like a great architectural jigsaw puzzle that is difficult to fit together mentally without seeing it. 
 What finally motivated me to spend a weekend discovering Charlottesville, however, was a conversation I had in France during a visit to the Desert de Retz, the fantasy garden created by Francois Racine de Monville in the 1770's at the edge of the royal forest of Marly. Jean-Marc Heftler, a present co-owner of this visionary ensemble of follies that resemble antique ruins, described how Jefferson's designs for the oval rooms of the university's rotunda were inspired by seeing the Desert's Column House.
Jefferson had succeeded Benjamin Franklin as minister to France, serving from 1785 to 1789, and profited from his years abroad by absorbing the entire range of European architectural history, making notations and drawings as he went along. After his visit to the Desert, he remarked, "How grand the idea excited by the remains of such a column."
To arrive late on a summer evening in Charlottesville -- named in colonial times for the wife of George III -- and see the original university complex (called the Lawn) for the first time by moonlight and lamplight, flickering behind luminescent magnolia blossoms, is to observe one of the most magical settings in America.
Volumes have been written about the architectural influences for specific details of decoration, but the ensemble essentially represents the Jeffersonian vision for a sophisticated American learning environment that would make leaders out of young men from a hitherto agrarian society and attract European academics. (In his view, the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., was already too provincial and in decline.)
Rather than relax after he left the presidency in 1809, Jefferson geared up for what he perceived to be his crowning achievement by appropriating a sloping cornfield for a secular university that would condense thousands of years of European culture into its architecture. What did not originate from his own drawings and notes came from such studies as Andrea Palladio's "Four Books of Architecture," as well as from architect-friends like William Thornton and Benjamin Henry Latrobe, who provided sketches, specifically for the individual brick pavilions with white architectural trim.
The general plan was this. The library, a domed rotunda based on the Pantheon in Rome, was the centerpiece of the complex at the north end. Perpendicular to the rotunda, and facing each other, were two rows of five two-story pavilions or lodges, as Jefferson called them, reminiscent of the pavilions that once stood on either side of the Chateau of Marly.
With a lively mixture of pedimented facades and columns representing every classical order (the Ionic order of Pavilion II, from the Temple of Fortuna Virilis; the Corinthian order of Pavilion VIII, from the Baths of Diocletian), each pavilion housed on the second floor a professor of a different department -- law, medicine, natural history, moral philosophy, ancient languages, etc. -- who taught on the ground floor.
Linking the pavilions were the one-story dormitories for the students. In front of these were the long, covered passageways or colonnades, as rhythmical as those at the Palais Royal in Paris and a protection for students as they made their rounds of classes in inclement weather.

The Verdant Village
"The whole of these arranged around an open square of grass and trees would make it what it should be in fact, an academical village," wrote Jefferson, using the term that has evoked this special community for 175 years. The 200-foot-wide by 700-foot-long swath of lawn is a lush carpet of blue grass that descends in levels, giving greater height and importance to the rotunda in the distance. In fact, the pavilions are spaced farther apart as they descend the Lawn, giving the illusion of being evenly spaced, an illusion that reverses itself when seen from below.
"It is a daunting task to keep the Lawn green when it is the center of life," said Mary Hughes, the university's landscape architect. And herein lies the success of Jefferson's plan: even as a modern university has grown up around it, and a major library has left the rotunda and its restored oval rooms to ceremonial functions, with very few adjustments the "academical village" is occupied today exactly as Jefferson intended.
The privies may be gone, but students still go outside in their bathrobes to use the modern bathrooms behind their dormitories or to collect firewood in winter for their individual fireplaces. The bachelor professors of yore long ago gave way to romance and families, who now occupy entire pavilions, though two pavilions were recently restored to hold classes again on the ground floor.
But now for the first-timer's surprise. Behind the familiar colonnaded pavilions is a hidden network of gardens, originally both pleasure and kitchen gardens, divided by the graceful but economic serpentine walls. (The curves allow the walls to be built only one brick wide, like agricultural or forcing walls in England.) And beyond the gardens is a further range of buildings, including the original hotels or eating halls, now mostly offices, and more arcaded student housing. (Edgar Allan Poe's room from 1825 to 1826 is the only one preserved, though it lacks the rocking chair customarily allotted to every student.)

Pockets of Botany
Because Jefferson viewed the pavilions as private villas, he assumed that each professor would create his own garden. It is known from correspondence about cuttings and seeds that the botany professor and the philosophy professor did. The daughter of the latter married the former and brought her gardening skills farther down the Lawn with her.
Under the professors' private jurisdiction, a crop of utilitarian outbuildings gradually intruded on the individual gardens, and several still in evidence add character to the major landscape restoration undertaken by the Garden Club of Virginia from 1948 to 1965.
Under the aegis of Alden Hopkins, the resident landscape architect of Colonial Williamsburg at that time, and after his death his assistant, Donald H. Parker, these gardens in the Colonial Revival style survive today with a refreshing singularity of configurations and plant materials, many of them rare for the region because of the microclimates created by the serpentine walls.
Along the intermittent walkways between gardens, the day lilies that grow within the curves of the walls project an endearing simplicity. The garden club's terms required that the individual gardens remain open to the public at all times, so they are no longer the private domain of faculty members.
As the university has expanded, other architects have added their marks, and it is clear that each understood how Jefferson integrated architecture with landscape.
Early on, after a major fire, McKim, Mead & White altered the streetside facade of the rotunda and added three buildings at the bottom of the Lawn (although these obscure the view over the mountains that Jefferson treasured). A colonnade by Michael Graves along the facade of Bryan Hall, the English department building, exaggerates the girth of the columns; Hereford Residential College by Tod Williams Billie Tsien & Associates accentuates the role of a series of lawns and subgardens as dividers between walls of brick buildings.
Robert A. M. Stern's Darden Graduate School of Business Administration recreates the idea of the individual pavilions without varying each design. And in the Gooch-Dillard houses that Edward Larrabee Barnes designed, he captured Jeffersonian simplicity with the long perspective of a squared-off, outdoor brick passageway. Even one end of the new football stadium is wrapped with a classical colonnade.

Never Quite Satisfied
Jefferson would have appreciated the variations and eccentricities of his fellow practitioners, as a visit to Monticello makes clear. On a tour, William L. Beiswanger, the director of restoration, was quick to point out Jefferson's constant interior alterations to Monticello, which he began constructing in 1769 at the age of 26. Many changes were made in one wing of the house to suit his own privacy. These interior reconfigurations are reflected on the exterior by a great exuberance of complicated molding designs.
Back in the offices, Mr. Beiswanger displayed copies of Jefferson's drawings, now housed at the Massachusetts Historical Society. They were made shortly after his visit to the Desert de Retz and record the configuration of the famous oval rooms from the circular column house, with his careful notations in French.
Jefferson lost no detail of his travels as he tried to transform the new American society through architecture into a cultural power that would hold its own and even sometimes surpass the Old World.

In the View Of a Visionary

Charlottesville is about 350 miles from New York City. (The area code for the region is in the process of changing from 804 to 434.)

Attractions

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, at the intersection of I-64 and Route 29, Charlottesville, (434) 924-0311. During the summer, tours are given daily of the Lawn and gardens at 5 and 6 p.m. and of the rotunda at 10 and 11:30 a.m. and 2, 3 and 4 p.m. The tours of the Lawn and gardens meet on the front steps of the rotunda; tours of the rotunda meet inside. Free.

MONTICELLO, on Route 53, near the intersection of Route 20 South and I-64 (about two miles southeast of Charlottesville), (434) 984-9822. Through Oct. 31, guided tours are offered daily from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; from November to February, from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $11; $6, children 6 to 11; under 6, free. www.monticello.org.

Where to Stay

BOAR'S HEAD INN, Route 250 West, Charlottesville, (434) 296-2181 or (800) 476-1988. A country resort in a restored 1834 gristmill. Double rooms: $185 a night; $215 to $225 a night for a room with a lake view; $360 to $500 a night for a suite. Packages are available.

OMNI CHARLOTTESVILLE HOTEL, 235 West Main Street, Charlottesville, (434) 971-5500 or (800) 843-6664. Situated on the historic downtown mall, with pool and workout equipment. Double rooms: $149 to $169 a night.

Where to Eat

OLD MILL ROOM, Boar's Head Inn, Route 250 West, Charlottesville, (434) 972-2230.

SOUTHERN CULTURE, 633 West Main Street, Charlottesville, (434) 979-1990.

BIZOU, 119 West Main Street, Charlottesville, (434) 977-1818.

Getting There

BY PLANE: U.S. Airways has daily direct flights from La Guardia Airport to Charlottesville/Albemarle Airport. A direct flight is about 1 hour 45 minutes. A round-trip direct flight costs $140.50 to $435.

BY TRAIN: Amtrak runs trains from Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan to Charlottesville Station. A direct train ride takes about seven hours. A round-trip ride in coach costs $156 to $206; sleeping accommodations are available for an additional charge.
 PAULA DEITZ

GRAPHIC: Photos: One piece of a great architectural jigsaw puzzle: The classically inspired rotunda at the University of Virginia, designed by Thomas Jefferson for his "academical village." (Alex Brandon for The New York Times)(pg. E29); Nia Rogers, right, and other students in a drawing class sketch a pavilion at the University of Virginia.; A view of Monticello, Jefferson's home. As the house attracted the public, shutters were installed on a porch (inset) to give Jefferson privacy. (Photographs by Alex Brandon for The New York Times)(pg. E37) Map of Virginia highlighting Charlottesville. (pg. E37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); TOYS & GAMES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



130 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2185 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Sunday at 1 p.m., "From Stuyvesants to Immigrants: Social Upheaval in the East Village," a waking tour of the Bond Street neighborhood, concluding with a guided tour of the museum; admission, $12, includes a guided tour of the house. A self-guided tour is available on weekdays. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 1 to 5 p.m. Tours on Saturdays and Sundays. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; members and children under 12, free. Information: (212) 777-1089.

MOUNT VERNON HOTEL MUSEUM AND GARDEN, formerly the Abigail Adams Smith Museum, 421 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Built in 1799 as the carriage house for Abigail Adams and Col. William Smith, it was the Mount Vernon Hotel in the 1830's. Tuesday night at 6, "A Visit With Fanny Trollope," an interactive theater performance, including a guided tour of the museum; tickets, $6; $4 for children. Museum admission: $6; $4 for members and children under 12. Museum hours: guided tours every half-hour, beginning at 11 a.m.; last tour is at 3:30 p.m. Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Tuesdays until 9 p.m. in June and July only; closed Mondays. Admission: $4; students and 62+, $3; ages 12 and under, free. Information: (212) 838-6878.

MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. "Citizens Betrayed: The Hungarian Forced Labor Battalions, 1939-45"; through Oct. 15. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed Saturdays. Admission: $7; students and 55+, $5; children 5 and under, free. Tickets can be bought by calling the museum, (212) 945-0039. Information: (212) 509-6130.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other mediums, including drawings, posters and photographs. "Muppets Forever: The Legacy of Jim Henson," through Sept. 16; screenings Tuesdays through Sundays at 12:30. "Hello, Goodbye: Pilots, Premieres and Final Episodes," through Sept. 16; screenings Tuesdays through Sundays at 3 p.m.; additional screenings Thursday nights at 6 and Friday nights at 7. "The Sounds of Silents: Silent Films Restored With Full Orchestration by Photoplay Productions," a screening series showcasing silent films restored with full orchestration by the team of Kevin Brownlow and David Gill, who formed Photoplay Productions; through Aug. 12; tonight at 6; tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m., "Cinema Europe: The Other Hollywood" (1996), three episodes, 60 minutes each. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; open until 8 p.m. on Thursdays, and the theater is open until 9 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $6; students and 62+, $4; ages 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, near 77th Street, Manhattan. The Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture is a permanent gallery on the museum's fourth floor. "Independence and Its Enemies in New York," observing the 225th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, through Sept. 9. "Up on the Roof: The Culture of New York City Rooftops," chronicles the quest for light and air in city living, through Sept. 9. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; ages 12 and under, free. Information: (212) 873-3400.

STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, 75 Stuyvesant Place, St. George. Cultural museum and library with artistic, scientific and environmental collections. "Salon-Style: 19th-Century Art From the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences," through Sept. 5. Museum hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $2.50; students and 62+, $1, free for members and children under 12. Information: (718) 727-1135.

Zoos

BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. Some 265 wooded acres are devoted to naturalistic habitats, including Jungle World, African Plains, the Baboon Reserve and the World of Birds, the Aitken Sea Bird Colony (with daily penguin feedings at 3:30 p.m.), Big Birds and the Congo Gorilla Forest (Admission: $3), a six-and-a-half-acre reproduction of the Central African rain forest, with lowland gorillas, African rock pythons, Wolf's monkeys, bugs, birds and reptiles. Tomorrow and Sunday, a special celebration of the zoo's "Congo Babies," honoring animal newborns and toddlers, along with the birthday celebration of Julia, a western lowland gorilla. Children's Zoo, featuring interactive exhibitions and domestic animals (through Oct. 31, depending on the weather), $2. The children's zoo is open, including an area where youngsters can climb through a prairie dog tunnel, scale a child-size spider web and feed domestic animals. The Butterfly Zone is open through Oct. 1, depending on the weather, with thousands of butterflies and moths and an area where visitors can see the metamorphosis of chrysalides, or cocoons, into butterflies or moths, weather permitting (Admission: $2). The zoo shuttle and the skyfari, both for $2 each way. Classes available for adults and children. Information and registration: (718) 220-6854. The Bengali Express Monorail (admission: $2) is open, passing Asian elephants, tigers, red pandas and other exotic animals. Through Sept. 30, daily tours; reservations necessary: (718) 220-5141. Zoo hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends and holidays until 5:30 p.m. General admission, $9; $5, children 2 to 12 and 65+; free, children under 2; by donation Wednesdays. Parking: $7. Information: (718) 367-1010.

PROSPECT PARK ZOO, 450 Flatbush Avenue, near Empire Boulevard, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Geared to children, with sea lions, wallabies, baboons, farm animals and a discovery trail. Tomorrow and Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m., small-mammal keeper weekend activities, including games, demonstrations and crafts. Sea-lion feedings daily at 11:30 a.m., 2 and 4 p.m. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission: $2.50; 65+, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; 2 and under, free. Information: (718) 399-7339.

RECREATION

NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB BRONX HALF-MARATHON, the Bronx. Begins Sunday at 8 a.m. on Goulden Avenue and Bedford Park Boulevard. Advance registration: $22; $15 for members; $12 for junior and senior members. Race day registration: $17; $12 for members; $10. Information: (212) 860-4455.

"TAKE A WALK, NEW YORK!" Various locations around the city. A series of free walks to promote good health, sponsored by the Neighborhood Open Space Coalition and other organizations. The history of the Brooklyn Bridge will be covered on a walk Sunday, beginning at 10 a.m. on the Brooklyn Bridge side of City Hall Park. Information: (212) 379-8339.

ON THE STREET

AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS FESTIVAL, from 14th to 23rd Streets. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the McBurney Y.M.C.A.

U.S.O.-AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS SUMMERFEST, Avenue of the Americas, from 42nd to 57th Streets. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the U.S.O. of Metropolitan New York.

WOODSIDE AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Roosevelt Avenue to 65th Place, Woodside, Queens. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by Woodside on the Move.

MYRTLE AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Cypress Hills Street to 67th Place, Glendale, Queens. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Glendale Kiwanis Club.

EVENTS

TIBETAN FESTIVAL, Battery Park, Lower Manhattan. With music, dancing and crafts. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the New York Tibetan Alliance and the New York Association for New Americans. Information: (212) 898-4108.

WALKING TOURS

"BIZARRE AND ECCENTRIC EAST VILLAGE TOUR." visits tattoo and body piercing shops, emporiums for magic potions, leather collars and whips and an estimable French fries place. Meets tonight at 7 at the cube at Astor Place, St. Marks Place and Lafayette Street. Led by Michael Kaback. Fee: $15, plus cost of snacks. Information: (212) 370-4214.

"GARGOYLES IN MANHATTAN," Madison Square to Greenwich Village. This walking tour makes close to two dozen stops to examine these curious architectural ornaments, and includes reflections on their historical origins and functions. Fridays at 10 a.m. Fee: $15. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Reservations necessary: (212) 979-2388.

"DUSK IN GREENWICH VILLAGE," a historical walk devoted to writers and artists who have worked and lived in the Village. Meets tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the Washington Arch. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 334-2211, extension 101.

MULTIETHNIC EAST HARLEM. Co-sponsored by the Museum of the City of New York and Big Onion Walking Tours. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the museum, Fifth Avenue and 103rd Street. Fee, $12; $10 for museum members, students and 63+. Information: (212) 534-1672, extension 257.

"WALKS IN OLD CHELSEA." A look at the stately buildings of the area and the stories behind them. Meets tomorrow at 2 p.m. in front of the Flatiron Building, Broadway and 23rd Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"WALK ON THE WILD SIDE: THE EAST VILLAGE." Visits residences, theaters and clubs made famous by Gloria Swanson, Danny DeVito, Molly Picon, Richard Dreyfus, Edward G. Robinson, Abraham Lincoln and punk rockers. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. on the northeast corner of East 10th Street an Broadway. Fee, $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL." Combines readings of works by noted writers with stops at popular bars. Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, West Village. Sponsored by the New Ensemble Theater Company. Fee: $12; $9 for students and those 55 and older. Refreshments not included. Reservations: (212) 613-5796.

CENTURY WALKING TOURS. Two tours that focus on the Revolutionary War. "The Surrender of Fort Washington," which takes walkers to the site of the "Alamo of the Revolution," meets tomorrow at 11 a.m. at the southern entrance to Fort Tryon Park, Margaret Corbin Plaza, near the 190th Street entrance to the A train. "Aaron, Clement, Malcolm and George," which visits sites of importance in the lives of George Washington and Aaron Burr, meets Sunday at 11 a.m. at the south end of the 181st Street stop on the A train. Fee for each, $15. Information: (201) 433-0946.

"THE BROADWAY THEATER DISTRICT: IT'S GOING TO BE A BUMPY NIGHT!" passes historic landmarks and classic movie and television sites in the district. Tomorrow and Sunday at 10 a.m. Fee: $15. Sponsored by New York Curmudgeon Tours. Information and meeting place: (212) 629-8813.

"HARLEM: KEYSTONE OF AFRICAN AMERICA." The history, homes, churches and cultural and economic growth of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at City College, Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Information: (212) 242-5762.

GREENWICH VILLAGE. A free tour that covers sites associated with Edward Hopper, Andy Warhol, Lou Reed, Jimi Hendrix, Jack Kerouac and Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney. Meets tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and St. Marks Place. Sponsored by the Village Alliance. Information: (212) 777-2173.

"IMMIGRANT NEW YORK AT TWILIGHT." A multiethnic walking tour of the Lower East Side, Chinatown, Little Italy and other ethnic neighborhoods. Stops include the African Burial Ground, Mulberry Bend and sites associated with Sun Yat-sen, Mother Cabrini and Abraham Cahan. Meets tomorrow at 5 p.m. at the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Streets. Fee: $12; students and 63+, $10. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.

BROOKLYN BRIDGE. A walk across the bridge, with an exploration of the Brooklyn waterfront. Meets Sunday at 2 p.m. in Manhattan in front of the Horace Greeley Statue in City Hall Park on Park Row. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. Tickets, $10; $8 for students and 65+. Information: (212) 979-8013.

FAR ROCKAWAY, Queens. A three-mile walk, culminating at Jacob Riis Park. Meets Sunday at 10:45 a.m. at Roosevelt Avenue and 61st Street. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Fee, $3. Information: (718) 361-2585.

"WEST SIDE STORY." Includes stops at Lincoln Center, Central Park, the Dakota apartment house and Zabar's. Meets Sundays at 1 P.M. at the Lincoln Center fountain. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Mainly Manhattan Tours. Information: (212) 755-6199.

JEWISH HARLEM. An exploration of historic synagogues, row houses and theaters. Sunday at 1 p.m. Sponsored by the 92nd Street Y. Fee, $25. Meeting place and reservation: (212) 415-5500.

ST. MARY'S MANHATTANVILLE, upper Manhattan. A tour of the historic church along with other neighborhood sights. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. at St. Mary's Episcopal Church-Manhattanville, 521 West 126th Street. Fee, $15. Sponsored by the Manhattan-Ville Heritage Society. Information: (212) 663-5890.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ZOOS -- A wallaby at the Prospect Park Zoo, which is also home to sea lions and farm animals. (Wildlife Conservation Society) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FILM (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HUNGARY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



131 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Let Us Remember the Dear, Departed Plymouth 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
WITH little fanfare, the final Plymouth rolled off a Chrysler assembly line last week.
 The car, a silver Neon LX with a 2.0-liter engine and a five-speed manual transmission, was built on June 28, in Belvidere, Ill., finishing the division's 74-year run. The $18,210 Neon went to Darrell Davis, the Chrysler vice president for parts and service operations, who added the car to his collection of vintage automobiles. 
 It was fitting that the final Plymouth was an economy car because Walter P. Chrysler created the brand in 1928 in a bid to attract entry-level customers. It took Plymouth just six years to sell a million vehicles. Chrysler used Plymouth as a repository for affordable, sometimes peppy models designed to attract young buyers. Its high-water mark came in 1973, when sales peaked at nearly 750,000, thanks to spunky models like the Road Runner.
But Plymouth had trouble in the 1980's, fighting off competition from American and Japanese rivals. Chrysler executives decided to give Plymouth one last boost of products in the mid-1990's to see if the brand could survive.
First came the Neon, in 1994. The next year brought the Plymouth Breeze. The Plymouth Prowler, an eye-catching roadster with exposed front suspension, arrived in 1996.
Nothing really helped. DaimlerChrysler, the parent company, announced in November 1999 that Plymouth would depart at the close of the 2001 model year. Chrysler has transferred Plymouth's lineup: the Prowler and the Voyager minivan became Chryslers; Dodge sells the Neon. The Breeze was dropped last year.
Eliminating Plymouth made financial sense, but Chrysler has had trouble hanging on to Plymouth customers, who tend to be younger and less educated, and earn less per year than the average car buyer, said Art Spinella, an analyst with CNW Marketing Research in Bandon, Ore. "People who were buying Plymouth Neons don't buy Dodge Neons," he said. "They buy Hyundais and Kias and Daewoos." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The last Plymouth was made on June 28. (Dave Bock) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); MINIVANS (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



132 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, July 5 

 BODY:
Despite continued signs of a significant economic slowdown in Europe, the European Central Bank declined again today to lower interest rates and made it clear that it would not relax its grip on monetary policy any time soon.
 Today's decision was not a surprise because it was foreshadowed on Tuesday in unusually specific comments by the central bank's president, Wim Duisenberg. 
 But as recently as last week, many economists were predicting a rate reduction either today or by the end of the month. Based on today's comments as well as on the coming summer break, any rate cut before the very end of August now appears extremely unlikely. 
The Bank of England also decided today to leave its interest rates unchanged as well. That decision was widely expected.
In sharp contrast to the Federal Reserve, which announced its sixth rate cut of the year last week, Mr. Duisenberg hammered home the point that his top priority is wringing out inflation rather than propping up growth. 
"Our monetary stance seems appropriate in the current stance and should bring inflation back in line with price stability in the medium term," he said at a news conference here today. "This remains appropriate for some time to come. I can't be clearer than that."
Last month, consumer prices across the 12 nations that share the euro jumped at an annual rate of 3.4 percent, the biggest increase since the euro was adopted in January 1999 and far above the targets set by the central bank. 
But European business has become markedly gloomier the last several months, and manufacturing industries are already teetering on the edge of a recession as exports to the United States and Asia weaken. Here in Germany, which accounts for a third of the euro zone's economic output, economists say the growth may have stopped entirely in the second quarter and will probably remain nearly dormant until later in the year.
The European Union's most recent survey of business confidence showed that industry sentiment across the Continent had slumped to its lowest level since July 1999, when companies were still reeling from the Asian and Russian financial crises. In Germany, business executives have become increasingly pessimistic for nearly a year now. Commerzbank, in a analysis this week, went so far as to warn that Germany was perilously close to a recession.
European inflation has been caused by a variety of problems, most of which are outside the central bank's control. Countries are still absorbing increases in world oil prices. Food prices have jumped at an unusually rapid pace, in part because of bad weather this spring as well as the massive slaughter of livestock in order to fight an epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease.
On top of that, the weakness of the euro has pushed up the cost of products imported from outside the euro area. The dollar rose today to its highest level against the euro since October. In late New York trading, the euro was trading at 83.55 United States cents, down from 84.78 cents on Tuesday, before the Fourth of July holiday.
Because most of the recent price increases have stemmed from what appear to be one-time shocks, central bankers continue to believe that the inflation rate will drop back to their target of 2 percent by some time next year. 
But Mr. Duisenberg warned that the path ahead would be "a bumpy one" and repeated his concern about "secondary effects" of the previous price increases. He is particularly concerned about demands for big wage increases from European unions.
Because the central bank's governors do not meet for four weeks in August, that probably means they will not reduce rates until at least Aug. 30. And they may not do so then, either.
Jose Luis Alzola, an economist with Schroeder Salomon Smith Barney in London, said the central bank would not cut rates simply because growth in the monetary supply had abated. "The hopes for a rate cut lie elsewhere, and that will be in confirmation that the worst of the inflation is over," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treading Water" shows the euro has fallen back to the same level as last November. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (67%); IMPORT PRICES (66%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (66%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (62%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); COMMERZBANK AG (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (57%); CBK (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



133 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A marketing blitz is aimed at promoting a 'living brand' from Britain for the U.S.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
EVER hear of Anne McKevitt? Chances are, no, unless you are a devotee of doyennes of domesticity. But you are soon likely to be bombarded with an ambitious marketing blitz on her behalf in an attempt to promote her into being the latest "living brand." 
 In Britain, Ms. McKevitt is a popular television host and author whose programs and books about home decorating and interior design have led to lines of merchandise sold under her name in categories ranging from paint and bedding to tiles and wallpaper. The McKevitt Web site (www.anne-mckevitt.co.uk) describes her goal as "good quality, fashionable product at an affordable price for inside and outside the home." 
 Now, two companies with experience in producing and selling products through direct-response media like television home-shopping shows and infomercials, catalogs and the Internet are teaming up to bring the McKevitt brand of advice to the United States. Their intent is to spend tens of millions of dollars on developing an American presence for Ms. McKevitt, to stimulate demand for her products in this country that could potentially reach $110 million to $125 million in sales over two years.
The campaign to introduce American consumers to Ms. McKevitt -- whose aesthetic objective could be described as Ikea affordability meeting Terence Conran style -- will be waged by HSN Direct International in St. Petersburg, Fla., which is majority owned by a British media company, Telewest Communications, and the Frederiksen Entertainment division of the Frederiksen Group in Falls Church, Va., a company specializing in developing products and programs centered on marketable celebrities.
The effort, which is planned to get under way in September on television and the World Wide Web, is indicative of the growing trend of grooming personable pitchmen and women as living brands, whose mere presence can help peddle products because they symbolize what they sell. Such selling is part of the frenetic efforts by marketers to overcome the American economic slowdown, as they try making an end run around traditional retail and advertising channels where sales are softest.
The best-known living brand is of course Martha Stewart, whose Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia has mushroomed into an empire of publishing, merchandising and e-commerce with a market capitalization of almost $1 billion. Other examples include the exercise and fitness devotees Denise Austin and Billy Blanks; Joan Rivers, for the costume jewelry she has sold on the QVC home-shopping channel; Susan Lucci, the soap opera actress, who has sold hair-care products, dolls and fragrances and is now selling costume jewelry on the Home Shopping Network; and the designer Diane Von Furstenberg, who has sold her apparel on QVC.
Whether Ms. McKevitt can accomplish the daunting task of translating her appeal on one side of the Atlantic to the other will be "up to her" and her corporate partners, said Allen Adamson, managing director at Landor Associates in New York, a corporate identity and brand consulting company owned by the WPP Group.
The danger, he added, would be if the McKevitt brand was presented too broadly, covering too many product categories, because "anytime a brand is so stretched, it becomes easier for competitors to nip off a piece here and there."
Still, there may be "room for another spokesperson" in the home-design market, Mr. Adamson said, because it is "a fragmented and fashion-driven segment, where people are looking for advice."
If Ms. McKevitt "is fresh and different," he added, she may catch on, particularly because of her heritage, in that "we don't look to England for technology, but we do feel the English have a sense of style."
Ms. McKevitt, who is Scottish, may be familiar to some Americans from two of her books already published in this country by Bay Books, "Style on a Shoestring" (1998) and "House Sensation: Spirited and Stylish Home Decorating" (1999). And some of her British television programs, which have appeared on networks like BBC2, have run on the HGTV cable network here.
Even so, "I've always felt America is a market with very big differences," Ms. McKevitt, said in a telephone interview. "For example, crafts are not such a huge thing in the U.K., but a large part of the U.S. market."
"I wanted to make sure I understood the U.S. market -- what the life styles are, how people dress, what people eat -- and if there was a place for me," she added. "What I offer is approachability, projects that are quick and easy for people to achieve, affordability: 'It's O.K. to make mistakes. You don't have to be perfect.' "
But by being perceived as informal or not stuffy, Ms. McKevitt, a former hair stylist, said, she is aware she must "not seem to be doing things that are slightly on the tacky side, selling people things in a way that's inappropriate."
Mary DiMaggio, president at Frederiksen Entertainment, said she was attracted to Ms. McKevitt by "the easy access and the no-rules philosophy," which she described as fitting well "with the need for consumers in the U.S. to be their own designers and decorators."
Already, the domain name www.annemckevittideas.com has been registered for American use, named after the company that sells her branded products in Britain.
"We have a long-sighted marketing plan," said Nancy Sutton Scott, product development manager at HSN Direct.
"We pride ourselves in our ability to identify people who identify with people, and that's Anne McKevitt," she added.
People, people who identify with people -- are they the luckiest marketers in the world?
Besides, turnabout may only be fair play. As Ms. McKevitt aims at the United States, on the way to further expansion, she said, to Asia, Australia and South America, Ms. Stewart has expanded from America to Brazil, Canada and Japan, on the way to Latin America and possibly Europe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne McKevitt, a popular British television host, will soon be seen in a United States ad campaign. (The Frederiksen Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (91%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); INFOMERCIALS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (72%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); SALES & SELLING (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (52%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (50%)

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (56%); MARTHA STEWART (56%); ALLEN ADAMSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



134 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: How to Train -- and Retain -- Teachers 

BYLINE:  By Vartan Gregorian; Vartan Gregorian, former president of Brown University and former president of the New York Public Library, is president of Carnegie Corporation of New York.

 BODY:
For some time now, the nation has been warned that our schools will need up to 2.5 million new teachers over the next decade. Indeed, school officials from New York, Atlanta, Houston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and other cities are actively seeking teachers from India, the West Indies, South Africa, Europe and anywhere else where good teachers can be found.
 But America has no shortage of idealistic and competent people who want to teach. Far from it: the nation's 1,300 schools of education have more than enough teachers in training to meet the need. So why should this be an issue at all? Because 30 percent of all our teachers and up to 50 percent of teachers in urban schools leave their jobs within five years. Out of every 600 students entering four-year teaching programs, only 180 complete them, only 72 become teachers and only about 40 are still teaching several years later. 
 The problem is not only recruiting teachers; it's retaining them -- and that problem points to some very real shortages.
To begin with, there is a shortage of public and official support for the profession of teaching and for professional teachers. Many of us would readily testify to the pivotal role teachers have played in our lives. In public opinion surveys and scholarly studies, we continually say that good teaching is key to school reform. And yet the teachers to whom we entrust our children and our future are not given professional respect, recognition and compensation.
The public rightly demands quality teaching and accountability but has been unwilling to acknowledge that quality comes with a price. The misconception that anyone can teach exists throughout the education system. Hence, many states routinely issue "emergency" teaching licenses to unprepared applicants -- a practice that would not be tolerated in any other profession. 
The true crisis in the teaching profession cannot be solved with simple answers, like raids on other nations' teachers. It demands a comprehensive response.
We lack a critical mass of very good schools of education. Many colleges and universities have marginalized their schools of education, treating them as revenue generators. Survival for many of these schools has often meant increasing enrollments and reducing educational quality. 
The governing boards and faculties of universities, both public and private, have an obligation to insist that universities annually provide more information about the quality of their schools of education, including data about the quality of their faculties, entering students and graduates and about the graduates' professional placement. More disclosure would help prospective students find higher-quality programs before going into debt for tuition at mediocre ones. This would create competition among schools for good students and would put political pressure on substandard schools to either improve or close down.
There is a shortage of meaningful professional advocacy on behalf of teachers. Teachers' unions devote most of their energies to improving working conditions and pay for their members. But by and large they have failed to secure the professional prerogatives of teachers -- namely, autonomy, flexibility and freedom to innovate.
To uphold the standards of teaching as a profession, unions need to push for more rigorous intellectual content in teacher education and professional development programs. Unions might even explore the cost and practicality of giving teachers sabbatical semesters for professional development after a decade of teaching.
Unions must also press for reforms in the existing teacher certification system. The patchwork quilt of weak teacher certification requirements needs to be replaced with a national certification program. Not only would this increase teachers' mobility from state to state, but it could provide research-based standards for what all teachers need to know and be able to do. One approach is to create a national commission to develop standards and national exams for teachers. Such a commission should also be able to develop a model system for measuring teachers' skills and performance. Accountability is essential, and only when teachers themselves push to eliminate mediocrity in their ranks will the standing of the profession itself improve in the public's eyes.
We must find better ways to help people entering the profession. Instead of giving them the toughest assignments, as is often done in our seniority-based system, we should give them a choice of schools, along with mentors and a reduced teaching schedule to ease the adjustment in the first year. Unions and management must also confront market realities: there is considerable competition for teachers in certain academic specialties, like math, and teachers in these fields have to be paid more.
But most important, we must change the perception that teaching is a dead-end job. We must provide young men and women, who are often burdened by college debts, with compensation on a professional level -- as it is, teaching in most states pays less than any other occupation requiring a bachelor's or master's degree. It is a measure of the profession's weakness that the only way most teachers can earn a good salary and grow professionally is by becoming administrators.
We are told that ours is the era of the "knowledge economy," that our nation needs well-educated "knowledge workers" and that our schools need to be transformed. But we can't achieve these goals without a stronger, more professionalized teaching corps, and we as a nation have not begun to make the longer-term investments that would bring that about.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Hoey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



135 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Decline on Bleak Corporate Earnings Forecasts

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slumped yesterday as investors faced a new batch of bleak corporate earnings forecasts including the announcement from Britain's Marconi that profits would be sharply lower this year.
 The announcement late on Wednesday from Marconi, a leading telecommunications equipment maker, reverberated across the technology sector yesterday. But investors returning from the Fourth of July holiday received even more bad news from Federated Department Stores and other companies. 
 The Nasdaq composite index lost 60.69 points, or 2.8 percent, to 2,080.11. Nearly two stocks fell for each one that gained. 
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 91.25 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,479.86, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.21 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,219.24.
"It basically stems from the Marconi announcement, which started a new sell-off in tech stocks across the board," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. "The news was pretty bad." 
But the selling was a "bit exaggerated," Mr. Cardillo noted, adding that trading volumes were low with many people on vacation and with others awaiting the release today of the unemployment report for June. 
Wall Street could find some encouragement when the actual earnings reporting season kicks in the next few weeks, money managers said. That is because investors are betting much of the bad news will be out after the dismal preannouncement season, when companies acknowledged profit shortfalls.
But for the time being, corporate confessions are in full swing. Companies in the S.& P. 500 are now expected to report a drop of 17.3 percent in earnings, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. That is more than twice the shortfall seen in the first quarter, when profits slumped 6.1 percent, Thomson said.
The American depository receipts of Marconi lost $3.68, or 52.3 percent, to $3.35. It was the Nasdaq's third-most-active stock. The company attributed its falling sales to the global slowdown in the telecommunications industry, and Marconi's woes spread to other issues, including Nokia of Finland, the world's biggest mobile phone maker, which fell $1.85, to $20.35, and Lucent Technologies, which dropped 39 cents, to $6.30.
Retail shares slumped after Federated, the parent of Macy's and Bloomingdale's department stores, cut its second-quarter and full-year profit outlook. Shares fell $2.37, to $38.01. The rival May Department Stores lost $1.34, to $32.11. The S.& P. retail index fell 1.62 percent.
United States shares of the Dutch semiconductor equipment maker ASML Holding slid after the company said it could lose as much as $88 million in the first half and withdrew expectations of a recovery later in the year. It fell $1.42, to $20.80.
A bright spot was the energy sector as stocks rose across the board, partly in line with firmer crude oil prices after new data showed United States petroleum stockpiles fell sharply last week. The S.& P. oil and gas index rose 1.71 percent on gains by the likes of Apache, which gained $1.51, to $51.01. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
Bonds fell yesterday as an improving outlook for service businesses suggested the Federal Reserve might stop lowering interest rates.
The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32 , to 96 29/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.42 percent from 5.38 percent on Tuesday.
The 30-year bond fell 16/32 , to 94 20/32 . Its yield rose to 5.76 percent from 5.72 percent.
Treasuries declined after the National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of nonmanufacturing business rose to 52.1 last month, the highest since December, from 46.6 in May. Readings above 50 signal economic expansion.
"The Fed is obviously near the end of its rate cuts," and "we'd be hard-pressed" to buy more Treasury securities, said Gary Pollack, who helps manage $10 billion at the Bankers Trust private banking division of Deutsche Bank.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (81%); MACY'S INC (73%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); ASML HOLDING NV (50%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (73%); ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); ASML (NASDAQ) (50%); ASML (AMS) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (73%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3827 OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS & LENSES (50%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



136 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: In Florida, Fraud Doesn't Matter. Will Congress Object? 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
LET'S consider two people who are bankrupt.
 The first, a father of a struggling family, lost his job and tried to meet his obligations. Each month, he paid the minimum on the credit card bills but ran up other charges as the family tried to make ends meet. 
 The second man was well-off before filing for bankruptcy. Facing a multimillion-dollar judgment, he moved his assets in a way that a court concluded might be a fraudulent effort to duck the judgment. 
Which one should be forced to pay his debts? 
Under current law, neither. But that may soon change.
The law now allows the first debtor to have his debts wiped out after he files for bankruptcy. The credit card company would not be able to recover the money that the man borrowed as he struggled to keep going unless it could prove that the man intended to commit fraud when he ran up those charges. Such proof is virtually impossible.
The second case was confronted by the Florida Supreme Court last month. Elmer C. Hill, a Tennessee coal broker, filed for bankruptcy in 1992 after a court ordered him to pay $15 million to a company that said Mr. Hill had defrauded it. Three days before the judgment became enforceable, Mr. Hill paid $650,000 in cash to buy a waterfront home in Destin, Fla., and $75,000 to furnish it. Under Florida law, people cannot lose their homes in bankruptcy, but it was not clear to a federal appeals court whether that applied if the house was bought with the clear intent to defraud creditors. So it asked the state supreme court to decide the issue.
The state supreme court cleared that up. "A homestead acquired by a debtor with the specific intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors" is just like any other home, the court ruled.
Both the House and the Senate have passed bills to penalize those who owe money to credit card companies when they go broke. If a debtor charged more than $250 in the 90 days before he filed for bankruptcy -- or $750 in the Senate bill -- those charges may not be discharged if they were for "luxury goods and services."
There is no real definition of "luxury goods and services," other than to say that the term excludes things "reasonably necessary for the support" of a person. Credit card companies no doubt will try to define that to exclude almost everything. "Sure it was for groceries. But did you really need to buy steak instead of bologna?" Cash advances are assumed to be for luxury goods, but payments of credit card bills during the 90 days are not considered. Both the House and Senate bills include other provisions to force bankrupts to pay more of their credit card debts.
But the bills differ in the other area. The Senate bill would overrule Florida law and allow a bankrupt to keep just $125,000 in equity in a home. The House bill contains a provision that might hurt those who moved to Florida just before filing for bankruptcy, but not those who moved two years earlier. (Mr. Hill moved 18 months before filing, and might have been able to wait longer.)
With the economy weak, layoffs and bankruptcies are on the rise. Passage of either bill will increase the pain for those who go broke and perhaps slow the recovery. But the credit card companies are likely to get a bill through.
So Congress will crack down on struggling families that do not plan bankruptcies well. The question is whether it will close the loophole that allows some people to live in luxury while stiffing their creditors. That will depend on whether the Senate caves during final negotiations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elmer C. Hill's $650,000 home in Destin, Fla. (Devon Ravine) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LUXURY GOODS (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); COAL MARKETS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



137 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: In Rome, O'Neill Plans To Laud U.S. Economy 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said today that he would carry a message of optimism about the United States economy to a meeting with his counterparts from the other big industrial nations on Saturday in Rome, where the main topic will be the faltering world economy.
 The United States, Mr. O'Neill said at a news conference, has done its part to spur an economic rebound by reducing interest rates and cutting taxes. He suggested that the Bush administration would like to see Europe and Japan do more to live up to their roles as "locomotives" for world growth. 
 Mr. O'Neill did not address one of the most pressing issues for many companies in the United States, the strength of the dollar against the euro and the Japanese yen. The strong dollar makes American exports more expensive in foreign markets and cuts into profits earned in foreign currencies, but also damps inflation by holding down the price of imported goods.
The finance ministers from the seven major industrial democracies are expected to discuss a variety of other issues, including some in which there are sharp differences between the United States and Europe.
Mr. O'Neill chided the European Union for its rejection on antitrust grounds of General Electric's proposed merger with Honeywell International.
Mr. O'Neill, who earlier this week described the decision by European antitrust regulators as "off the wall," used gentler and more general language today. He said he supported the general theory of antitrust most often applied in the United States -- that deals should be judged on whether they help or harm customers -- and by implication rejected the European view that antitrust judgments should hinge on what business combinations would mean to competitors.
"It does seem to me the driving principle should be what's in the best interest of ordinary people around the world in terms of raising their standard of living," Mr. O'Neill said. "If companies can combine and produce more value for regular human beings, it seems to me that's a conclusive test."
The meeting will come at a time when economic relations between Europe and the United States are strained on several fronts. The two sides are battling over a ruling by the World Trade Organization against the United States regarding provisions in the American tax code that give a break to exporters. And some European nations are unhappy with the Bush administration's decision to seek trade sanctions against some foreign steel producers.
The United States and Europe also have differences over how to crack down on tax havens and international tax avoidance.
Among the other topics on the agenda are money laundering and how to make the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank more effective in heading off financial crises and stimulating more economic growth in poor countries.
But Mr. O'Neill said the world economy would be a key focus of the talks, which are being held in part to lay the groundwork for a meeting of the leaders of the G-7 countries in Genoa, Italy, in two weeks. The G-7 countries are Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.
Mr. O'Neill said the United States was in the middle of a correction set off by "a rate of expansion and acceleration in consumer spending in the early part of the last year" that could not be sustained. Economists have put more of the responsibility on overinvestment by companies in computers, telecommunications equipment and other capital goods.
But he said the potential for a return to strong growth "was still there." And he added that he thought the growth rate of productivity -- the basic measure of business efficiency and long-term economic potential -- could ultimately go as high as 3.5 percent a year, or even 4 percent a year. Mr. O'Neill's productivity estimates were equal to or above the most optimistic assessments by private economists.
Mr. O'Neill said he was heartened by signs that automobile sales were running at a healthy pace and that the housing market had remained relatively strong. With consumers starting to receive a tax cut this summer in the form of rebate checks and lower withholding rates, the economy should get a "bounce, and that bounce will carry forward into next year," he said.
Asked about the adequacy of policy actions taken by Japan and Europe to strengthen their economies, Mr. O'Neill did not give a direct answer, but said, "They need to play a locomotive role as well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States has done its part to bolster the global economy, but others have not, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said yesterday. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EURO (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MERGERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); IMPORT PRICES (53%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); HON (NYSE) (55%); HON (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



138 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: In Another Bronx, Everybody Knew His Name and His Party 

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO

 BODY:
Under a punishing noontime sun, made tolerable only by a gentle breeze blowing from the river, Herman Badillo came out of his car yesterday, took off his navy suit jacket, rolled up the sleeves of his blue shirt and began walking, alone, the streets of the South Bronx.
 A campaign volunteer with a bullhorn walked a few steps ahead, proclaiming, in English and Spanish, that Mr. Badillo was "the man." 
 "Here is the man of the people, the one who will get us out of poverty," shouted Leon Suarez, his well-trained master of ceremonies' voice amplified through the bullhorn. "Badillo. El hombre. El Puertorriqueno! The next mayor of New York City!" 
Mr. Badillo smiled, waved, shook hands, patted heads and smiled some more through his first tour of the Bronx since announcing last month that, once again, he wanted to be mayor of New York City. 
He joined a race already crowded with four Democrats and one other Republican, Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire political novice who has captured the media's spotlight precisely because he is an untested, self-financed candidate in a sea of familiar faces.
Like the other mayoral candidates, Mr. Badillo has to find a way to set himself apart from the crowd and to claim some of the attention now focused on Mr. Bloomberg, whose every move and word, from his social schedule to his taste in television shows, is recorded by an eager press.
And so, Mr. Badillo is walking the streets -- even venturing into heavily Democratic territory -- distributing fliers, shaking hundreds of hands, participating in debates, calling news conferences and struggling to raise the $250,000 he needs to qualify for city funds by July 16. He acknowledged yesterday that he probably would not be able to raise that much until the next qualifying deadline, in early August.
On Wednesday, he campaigned in downtown Brooklyn. Yesterday, he toured an overwhelmingly Hispanic section of the Bronx, despite pollsters' repeated predictions that most Latinos in the city will back the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, a Democrat, for mayor. 
"So what?" Mr. Badillo, 71, said. "Before the Bronx was Freddy's, it was mine."
It was a different Bronx back then, Mr. Badillo said. There were fewer Hispanics in the early 1960's when he was running for Bronx borough president, and they were all from Puerto Rico. Yesterday, most of the hands that reached out to shake Mr. Badillo's belonged to Hispanics from all over Latin America.
The candidate they were greeting, though, was also a different man from the one who first asked them to trust him almost 40 years ago.
Mr. Badillo is no longer the towering national figure who made urban renewal his trademark, or the big liberal voice who, as a congressman from New York, fought for bilingual education and won. 
He is also not a Democrat anymore, having switched parties eight years ago because, he said, the party was no longer in line with his political philosophy. Mr. Badillo opposes open admissions to senior colleges and social promotion in the city's schools.
"The interesting thing is that Badillo is saying now the same things he has been saying for a long time," said Angelo Falcon, senior policy executive with the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and a close follower of city elections. "But no one was paying attention back then because he was a Democrat. Now that he is a Republican, people are shocked by what he says and call him conservative." 
Part of Mr. Badillo's challenge in this race is to reach out to Republicans without alienating potential voters -- those in the Bronx who remember his name from past campaigns, for example -- by reminding them that he is no longer a Democrat.
It was not difficult to strike that balance yesterday because most people who shook his hand did not ask questions; some did not even look him in the eye, unsure of who he was or why he would want to greet them. 
Those who approached him with enthusiasm appeared to do so because they have already made up their minds to vote for him. Some said Mr. Badillo reminded them of another era. Others welcomed him because they recognized the name, or because they knew he was born in Puerto Rico.
"Viva Borinquen!" shouted Juan Rodriguez from inside a bodega when he saw Mr. Badillo approach. 
"I know he'll do the right thing for the city," said Mr. Rodriguez, 30. Asked why, he simply replied: "Because he is Puerto Rican."
But Ana Araujo, 62, does not know what to make of Mr. Badillo. She shook his hand warmly and reminded him that, years ago, her husband had worked as a volunteer in one of his campaigns. She said that members of her Pentecostal church are supporting Mr. Ferrer but that her family, for old time's sake, is sticking by Mr. Badillo.
"I'm a Democrat," she said. "Of course I'll vote for him."
When told that Mr. Badillo is a Republican, Mrs. Araujo, a retired seamstress, was surprised.
"Oh, he is?" she said, holding her head. Will she still vote for him, if he wins the primary?
"Well, you see, that's the question now. That's the question of the year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herman Badillo, a Republican candidate for mayor, campaigned yesterday in the Bronx, where he served as borough president in the 1960's. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



139 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: U.N. May Delay Climate Treaty's Target Date 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The chairman of a United Nations conference negotiating a climate treaty said on Thursday that he was willing to delay the target date that countries would have to start cutting emissions of heat-trapping gases. His offer of such a compromise was widely seen as a bid to gain Japan's support for the treaty, known as the Kyoto Protocol.
 The proposal came during a speech to the Dutch Parliament by the chairman, Jan Pronk, who heads the negotiations and is the Dutch environmental minister. 
 He outlined a way to soften the treaty's rules that might make it easier for a country like Japan, facing a recession, to participate.
The current language of the treaty would require 38 industrialized countries to reduce their annual emissions, averaged between 2008 and 2012, to more than 5 percent below where they stood in 1990. 
"I can imagine that it would be possible to postpone the date of 2008 by two years, to 2010," Mr. Pronk said, according to The Associated Press and European wire services.
Until now, European officials have uniformly resisted any change in the timetable or targets of the proposal.
Nonetheless, many experts on the treaty predicted that Mr. Pronk's move was too little, too late -- with the only chance of American support evaporating after European negotiators rejected proposals from the Clinton administration last November.
The treaty was negotiated in Kyoto in 1997 and signed by the Clinton administration and 167 other governments, but countries remain deeply divided over its fine print and no large industrialized country has ratified it.
The treaty has been rejected by President Bush as "fatally flawed" because it excuses developing nations from obligatory emissions cuts and could, according to the Bush administration, harm the economy.
But it could still take effect if countries responsible for more than half of the industrialized world's 1990 emissions of warming gases support it. 
The European Union has said it would push to ratify the treaty without the United States. But without the support of Japan, a large source of emissions, it would be nearly impossible to reach the threshold for enactment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



140 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Argentina in Quandary as Protest by Jobless Gets Nasty 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: GENERAL MOSCONI, Argentina, June 29 

 BODY:
The 200 unemployed workers occupying the central plaza of this squalid oil town may look harmless in their makeshift tents sipping an herbal beverage through metal straws to while away the hours.
 But after an exchange of gunfire with the federal border police two weeks ago that left two bystanders dead and more than 40 protesters and police officers wounded, they have been described in the nation's newspapers as a threat to Argentina's political and social stability. 
 The government's intelligence agencies say that the protesters represent the core of a potential guerrilla insurgency and that they are at least loosely connected to Colombia's rebels or international narcotics traffickers seeking to stir up trouble in this part of northwest Argentina.
President Fernando de la Rua's cabinet is divided over whether to negotiate with them or repress them, leading to an embarrassing public feud between two ministers that has reinforced the impression that the government is adrift in its handling of a three-year-old recession and rising unemployment. 
In this town of 20,000 people, where 40 percent of the adults are unemployed, the protesters hardly appear more than a huddle of poverty, akin to the impoverished masses who occupied the Hoovervilles of the American Depression. They ridicule talk of their links to outside agitators as mere excuses to repress them.
Demanding jobs, they spend their days crouched around fires where they cook stews and heat their mate, the herbal beverage. They carry slingshots, which they normally use to hunt birds, and say they will use them against the police if they come to disperse them.
"We're not moving until Governor Romero meets with us, but he says we are nothing but delinquents," said Rosa Elena Torrez, 42, referring to Juan Carlos Romero, the governor of Salta Province, as she prepared soup in the plaza. "But he is the delinquent who killed two of our sons."
She showed the shell casing of a bullet and said border policemen fired shots at several hundred protesters on June 17 to force them to remove their blockade of a federal highway, which had been paralyzing the local economy for three weeks.
In the so-called "Battle of Mosconi," two innocent bystanders were killed by gunfire, 14 protesters were wounded and 39 were arrested. Hooded marksmen began the firing, and there are conflicting reports whether they were policemen, protesters or outsiders who mingled with the picketers.
But what has shaken the government most is that 27 policemen were also wounded, not by slingshots but by bullets, indicating that at least some protesters had guns.
After the confrontation -- one of the nation's most violent in years -- more than 300 heavily armed border policemen took up positions around General Mosconi, checking the papers and vehicles of all who enter and leave the town as if it were enemy territory. The protesters dropped their highway blockade and moved to the central plaza, where they demanded the release of three of their leaders who were arrested in the confrontation.
Taking a cue from the General Mosconi protesters, other unemployed workers have sporadically blocked roads around Buenos Aires. Another labor group rallied in front of the presidential palace on June 21 in a protest that grew violent when hooded men with gasoline bombs set the entrance of a nearby bank on fire. Tobacco growers around the city of Salta are now threatening to block roads to demand government subsidies.
"This is a problem the national government better resolve immediately because it is getting out of hand," said Governor Carlos Ruckauf of Buenos Aires Province. Interior Minister Ramon Mestre said the protesters were beginning to resort to "urban guerrilla tactics."
With the national employment rate now hovering above 16 percent and several provincial governments near bankruptcy, officials say they fear a rash of roadblocks by the unemployed will only slow the weakened economy. Several local protest groups with Trotskyist ideologies have sent delegates to General Mosconi to offer support and learn tactics.
The unrest in General Mosconi is rooted in the selloff of YPF, the huge state oil company, between 1991 and 1993. Hundreds of local oil and gas workers were laid off with modest severance packages and little if any retraining or loans for the difficult transition to new employment.
Several smaller oil and gas companies took over the YPF operations in this company town, which takes its name from the founder of the company, but they employed only a fraction of the workers. Meanwhile, the closing of YPF's large headquarters here and the exodus of a large number of executives reduced the demand for carpenters, gardeners and other workers.
Unemployed workers began to block local roads in 1997, and their protests have become increasingly violent. Last November, a mob burned down the town hall. More ominously, another mob attacked a police station in nearby Tartagal and stole weapons, including several assault rifles. "If the provincial government or national government don't begin a plan to convert this region into a cattle or agricultural zone soon," said Juan Nieva, 49, a former YPF employee who is now occupying the plaza, "these social explosions will continue and more people will die in the streets."
Such statements and the provincial government's refusal to negotiate has put Mr. de la Rua's government in the awkward position of either rewarding the protesters with concessions or allowing an unstable situation to fester.
When Social Development Minister Juan Pablo Cafiero visited General Mosconi, Labor Minister Patricia Bullrich publicly criticized him for "politically positioning himself at the cost of the government." She left the impression that Mr. Cafiero had come to General Mosconi without President de la Rua's approval.
But Mr. de la Rua sided with Mr. Cafiero, and a middle-ranking official has been sent here to devise a plan to give forestry and other public works jobs to the unemployed.
Aides to Mr. de la Rua say they will not interfere in local judicial decisions in order to free the three protest leaders, suggesting that if they were too lenient with the General Mosconi protesters it would only spur more violent protests.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some 200 people demanding jobs are occupying the central plaza in General Mosconi, Argentina. Lorena, 17, held her baby while playing cards with her husband, Orlando, 27. They would give only their first names.; Rosa Elena Torrez shed a tear when recalling a clash with federal police officers in which two bystanders were killed. She said the protesters would not move until the governor of the province had met with them. (Photographs by Horacio Paone for The New York Times) Map of Argentina highlighting General Mosconi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (55%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (98%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



141 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Owner of Macy's Lowers Profit Forecast for Quarter
Federated Department Stores, the owner of the Macy's and Bloomingdale's chains, lowered its profit forecast, citing slow sales and steep markdowns.
 Federated projected earnings of 40 to 50 cents a share, or $78 million to $97 million, for the quarter ending Aug. 4, compared with an earlier forecast of 70 to 75 cents a share, or $136 million to $146 million. Page C6. 

Optimistic O'Neill Heads for Rome
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said that he would carry a message of optimism about the United States economy to a meeting with his counterparts from other big industrial nations tomorrow in Rome, where the main topic will be the faltering world economy. C6.

Editor Appointed at Financial Times
Richard Lambert announced that he would step down as editor of The Financial Times in September after 10 years in the job. He will be succeeded by Andrew Gowers, left, the head of The Financial Times Deutschland, the paper's German-language edition, which he established in 1999 as the founding editor. During his tenure, Mr. Lambert established a United States version of the paper and oversaw a large increase in circulation. C4.

E-Gambling Draws Scrutiny in U.S.
While it is illegal to offer Internet wagers in most states, a growing number of American companies are profiting from a boom in online gambling and from relationships with virtual casinos based overseas. But the involvement is drawing scrutiny to a murky legal area. A1.

Stocks Sag on Bleak Forecasts
Stocks slumped as investors faced bleak earnings forecasts. The Nasdaq composite index lost 60.69 points, or 2.8 percent, to 2,080.11. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 91.25 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,479.86, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.21 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,219.24. C6.

Rates Kept Unchanged in Europe
Despite continued signs of a significant economic slowdown in Europe, the European Central Bank declined again to lower interest rates. World Business, Section W.

Marconi Shares Fall More Than 50%
Marconi shares dropped by more than half in a vivid display of the decline in European telecommunications. World Business, Section W.

From Britain Comes a Home Invasion
In Britain, Anne McKevitt is a popular television host and author whose programs and books about home decorating and interior design have led to lines of merchandise sold under her name. Now, two companies with experience in producing and selling products through direct-response media are teaming up to bring McKevitt's brand of advice to America. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C4.

Freelancers Plan Return to Court
Freelance writers, who won a Supreme Court ruling that said three large publishers had violated copyright law by using freelance material in electronic databases without the authors' explicit permission, are headed back to court. They contend that The New York Times Company is trying to bully freelancers into giving up the rights to their work for nothing. C4.

Nonmanufacturing Index Increases
An index of business other than manufacturing expanded in June for the first time in three months, but initial jobless claims rose. C6.

Freeze on Fund Group Roils India
India's stock market has been roiled by a move to ban selling and buying in the flagship fund of the country's largest mutual fund group. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,479.86 down 91.25Nasdaq composite -- 2,080.11 down 60.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.42% up 0.04The euro -- $0.8355 down 0.0123The dollar -- 125.77 yen up 1.43 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures from December 2000-May 2001.June figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 4.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); GAMING (70%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (65%); COPYRIGHT (65%); INTERIOR DECORATING (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); COPYRIGHT LAW (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); MACY'S INC (58%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



142 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Angel Investors Fill Void Left By Risk Capital; 
Impressing Private Financiers Becomes Crucial to Start-Ups

BYLINE:  By BONNIE AZAB POWELL

DATELINE: LOS ALTOS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Even in a gathering of some 70 people, spotting the money seekers was easy. They were the younger men huddled off to the sides, clutching glasses of mineral water and trying not to look anxious.
 All around them, mostly gray-haired or balding Silicon Valley veterans in semiformal attire traded jokes and gossip over cocktails. It was early evening, but the mid-June sun still slanted through the picture window of the Los Altos Golf and Country Club's private dining hall, where the Band of Angels was convening again. 
 Begun in 1995, the band is an informal club of about 150 "angel" investors, or private financiers, who meet for dinner once a month to network with one another and to listen to representatives from three companies looking for seed capital. Before being invited, each start-up must find an angel from the group to serve as its sponsor (and the investors do not make themselves easy to find by listing the members' names anywhere). 
Those seeking money must then pass the due diligence -- or vetting -- process and survive the final cut administered by Hans Severiens and Ian Sobieski, the band's managing directors. All for the chance to zoom through their PowerPoint presentation in the 20 minutes before the timer next to the podium flashes red.
But running the gantlet can definitely be worthwhile. If a company's presentation is well received, interested investors usually attend a follow-up luncheon a week later, where they may well write a $50,000 to $100,000 personal check in exchange for a small stake in the company.
In early 2000, it was still possible for a start-up to skip the angel stage and go directly to venture capitalists, taking home perhaps $5 million with few questions asked. In the heady days before the tech boom collapsed, the venture capitalists had billion-dollar funds raised from limited partners like universities and could easily afford to risk a pittance on early-stage concepts. No longer.
Venture capital financing fell from $26.1 billion in the first quarter of 2000 to just $10.2 billion for the first quarter of this year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers/Venture One. What cash there was went mostly to struggling mid-stage companies already in the venture capitalists' portfolios; seed-stage financing plummeted to $32.9 million, down 75 percent from a year earlier.
Not only are venture capitalists shying away from start-ups just getting off the ground, they are also creating a bottleneck down the line for those angels still willing to take a chance. "The companies in the tough spot now are ones that have angel backing but no venture capital," said Steve Jurvetson, managing director of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, an early-stage venture capital fund. "When they need more money, it's difficult to get v.c.'s attention."
Last year the Band of Angels invested roughly $25 million in 23 companies, making the group one of the most active of the many angel networks in the United States. The Center for Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire puts the number of active angels in America at around 400,000. To be accredited, angel investors are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to have assets of at least $1 million.
Angel investing has become one of the most popular activities for many wealthy people. But it is not a hobby for the impatient or the cautious: angels will not see their money again unless the company successfully goes public or is acquired. Given the youth of these companies, that can take a while even in an environment less hostile than the current one. Since its founding six years ago, fewer than 10 of the group's more than 100 investments have gone public, while about 15 have been acquired.
The group is also, in effect, a social club for Silicon Valley's elite. The Band is distinguished from other angel networks by the credentials of its members, many of them veterans of Intel, Sun Microsystems and other icons of technology development. That can make them an intimidating audience to a lot of struggling entrepreneurs -- even more so now that the stock market's deflation has sewn up the purse strings of most other money sources.
"Times being what they are, we have to be realistic," said David Bandych, chief operating officer of the start-up Notiva, No. 2 in the evening lineup. Mr. Bandych and Tom Furphy, Notiva's chief executive, both left the East Coast supermarket chain Wegmans in early 2000 to found their software company, based in Rochester.
"I think it's a good thing we didn't get funding last year," Mr. Bandych added, not entirely convincingly. "We've had to get customers and prove ourselves first instead."
Sharply at 7:30 p.m., Mr. Severiens urged everyone to be seated. "If we don't get started now we'll all be here way past our bedtimes," he chastised the group, with the trace of a Dutch accent that remains even after half a century in the United States. Mr. Severiens' breadth of experience -- a nuclear physicist who worked for Perkin-Elmer and the Atomic Energy Commission before becoming an investment banker at Morgan Stanley and other white shoe firms -- is par for the course among members of this group.
He calls himself and Mr. Sobieski the Band's chefs, setting a smorgasbord of wine, food and good companies to nibble on.
But first comes the warm-up act from Fred Hoar, a co-founder of the group and a public relations maestro whose decades-long career has touched landmark technology companies from Fairchild Camera, whose later exiles founded Intel, to Apple Computer before it went public. Mr. Hoar began with a cheery "Greetings, Angels and Angelettes, Welcome to You Bet Your Assets, our monthly walk on the wild side of Wall Street."
He flashed a grin before taking aim at, among others, himself -- regarding his rumpled cream suit, he joked, "Summer must be here: I look like a symphony in oatmeal." And he could not help noting the pain the group felt from the stock market. "As someone said," Mr. Hoar remarked, "I don't know whether to kill myself or go bowling."
Once the laughter died down and the salad course was cleared, the real business began in earnest. First up was Cardiac Focus, a medical device company developing a disposable vest that will help doctors screen and map cardiac arrythmias without surgery.
Craig McMullen, 57, recently recruited as the company's chief executive, is even balder than most of the angels, and delivered his PowerPoint presentation in a quietly urgent monotone. The company was on the prowl for $2 million to complete the development team, perform clinical trials, and file for Food and Drug Administration approval. Given the angels' own aging hearts and the company's sponsors before the group -- among them Wally Buch, a heart surgeon, and Tom Fogarty, also a surgeon and the inventor of the first balloon catheter -- it was no surprise that they paid close attention to the spiel.
Several hands went up for questions, particularly about regulatory issues, which were handled confidently by Terry Ransbury, 39, the company's co-founder and its chief technology officer.
Mr. Furphy, 35, of Notiva went next. He started off badly, with an audience participation trick -- "Who's had a career in accounts payable?" -- that elicited weary sighs. One angel took a look at Mr. Furphy's nearly shaved head and whispered, "Who'd trust someone with a haircut like that?" But as Mr. Furphy described the big retailers that are already using Notiva's software to automatically reconcile purchase orders, invoices, and shipping and receiving discrepancies, heads started nodding. The company's management team, with years of experience at Wegmans, also got the thumbs-up.
Then the 20-minute timer on the table turned yellow. With three minutes left, Mr. Furphy sped through his PowerPoint presentation like the pitchmen in the latest Toyota commercials, abandoning sentences halfway through. "We've thought about getting a hook for moments like these," Mr. Hoar confided.
The brief Q.& A. consisted mostly of questions about Notiva's venture capital financing. Notiva's team was hoping to raise $500,000 from the angels to tide them over until they secure $3 million to $5 million in venture capital.
The audience was tiring in spite of the regular coffee making the rounds. And the final start-up, a developer of software platforms to allow wireless carriers to customize their mobile phone offerings, did not perk them back up. One investor even fell asleep over his apple tart.
Afterward, as people milled around, Mr. Furphy insisted that his timer malfunctioned. "I was robbed of a good seven minutes!" he laughed. He was not too troubled; apparently several angels indicated that they would show up for Notiva's follow-up lunch.
Before the chill in investing hit, two of the three companies that presented themselves to the Band could probably expect to get checks. Now, it's more likely to be one. But which?
As it turned out, no one but Notiva's sponsors and the two managing directors showed up for its lunch. The band's members were cautious, waiting to see if the company was indeed about to get a "term sheet," a venture capital contract. Others were less concerned. The morning of the follow-up, said Mark Brandt, the company's chief development officer, a single angel investor from outside the group committed to the entire sum.
The clear favorite of the evening was Cardiac Focus. In the week following the dinner, 10 members wrote checks, while another four rounded out the company's $2 million goal at its lunch.
"The mechanisms of the funding are pretty much the same, independent of product," Mr. Ransbury of Cardiac Focus, wrote in an e-mail the day after the dinner. "If you get critical mass with the investors who the followers admire, then the deal happens. If not, it really doesn't matter, even if you have the cure for cancer."
But Cardiac Focus still faces many hurdles, including proving its device works well enough to get F.D.A. approval and eligibility for Medicare reimbursement.
At least now it has a greater chance of finding out. "The lust for entrepreneurship has not changed," said Mr. Severiens. "And now there are great bargains to be had."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Band of Angels is a California-based group of private financiers who invest in start-ups. At top are two of the co-founders, Hans Severiens, left, and Fred Hoar. Above, Tom Furphy, the chief executive of Notiva, makes a pitch to the group. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times) Chart "Pennies From Heaven"Venture capital investments have plunged, with most of the remaining money aimed at existing companies. That makes so-called angel investors more crucial for start-ups. Graph shows the total invested in venture capital-backed companies each quarter from 1999. Change in venture capital investments by round of financing, first quarter 2001 compared with first quarter 2000. SEED ROUND: 75%FIRST ROUND: 71%SECOND ROUND: 42%THIRD ROUND: 46%FOURTH ROUND AND BEYOND: 36% (Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers MoneyTree survey in partnership with VentureOne) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); FINANCING ROUNDS (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); GOLF (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON (84%); BAND OF ANGELS LLC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ANGELS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



143 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Funds Stopped for Legal Programs Helping Illegal Immigrants 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, July 5 

 BODY:
A governor-appointed board has stopped financing four programs at law schools that offer free legal assistance primarily to poor illegal immigrants, drawing complaints from immigration rights advocates who fear that hundreds of people will be left in the lurch.
 The board, the Interest on Lawyer Accounts, known as IOLA, voted 5-to-4 last month to discontinue financing the programs, whose budget had been cut to $35,000 this year from $105,000 last year. 
 Each program had received money for "social justice fellows," created by the state board in 1996 in response to federal legislation that prohibited federally financed groups from representing prisoners or illegal immigrants.
Representatives of the law school programs said today that the fellows, all practicing lawyers assisted by professors and student interns, have served hundreds of clients since then, handling such things as asylum applications, small claims court cases, landlord-tenant disputes and a few class-action challenges to immigration rules. The vast majority of the clients have been undocumented immigrants. 
The four programs are the Hudson Valley Poverty Law Center at Pace University here; the Touro Social Justice Project at Touro Law Center on Long Island; Brooklyn Law School, and Syracuse University College of Law. 
The state financing ended on June 30, but the programs are carrying on with leftover funds that soon will be depleted. To keep the programs running, advocates have begun asking politicians and others with influence to help find other money or overturn the decision.
"We're kind of reeling from the decision," said Jennifer B. Brown of the Hudson Valley Poverty Law Center, which has 40 to 50 cases a year.
Craig Siegel, associate counsel at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University, said that immigrants outside New York City might be hit the hardest because there are few if any alternatives for free legal assistance in suburban or rural areas. "There is going to be virtually nobody available to help them," he said.
The board, created in 1983, disburses about $12 million annually from the interest derived from small, temporary escrow accounts private lawyers set up for clients as part of their cases. The amount of money has decreased from a high of $24 million in 1992 because of the decline in interest rates.
Supporters of the social justice fellows said they were puzzled by the decision. The board put a total of six programs, including the four legal assistance programs, on notice last December that they would receive financing for only six months this year pending a review of their programs.Those evaluations came back favorable. But, out of the six programs, only one was financed.
Supporters said they also found the decision of the board, made up of appointees of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, curious because Mr. Pataki has generally taken a pro-immigration stance.
The 15 board trustees are appointed by the governor; seven through his own discretion and the remainder on the recommendation of the leaders of the Assembly and Senate and the chief judge of the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court. All five who voted against the programs were Republicans and the four supporters were Democrats.
William R. Nojay, a Pataki appointee and the chairman of the board for the past two years, said in an interview that the board decided it could maximize its effectiveness by financing other programs. The money that would have gone to the five programs will be distributed among the other 85 programs that were funded, he said.
Mr. Nojay, a Rochester lawyer, said board members made their decisions independently, without political considerations, but he declined to discuss the merits of any particular program.
"The question was, in our judgment were these the most qualified to deliver these services in these geographic areas?" he said, adding: "It's a Hobson's choice. There are no bad programs. We wish we could meet all the needs but we simply do not have all the funds to do that."
The board may receive an additional $1 million in funding this year because of a change in bank rules, but Mr. Nojay would not say whether any of the money would be used for the discontinued programs.
Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki said: "We're confident that the board is committed to using its resources as effectively as possible and targeting those resources toward groups that have demonstrated the clear ability to help as many low income New Yorkers as possible." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LAWYERS (92%); LEGAL AID (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BOARD CHANGES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



144 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: BMC Says Profit Fell Short 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News (Compiled by Alan Krauss)

 BODY:
 BMC Software Inc., a maker of software for managing corporate computer systems, said fiscal first-quarter profit fell short of its forecasts because of weaker-than-expected sales. Profit for the quarter ended June 30 was 6 cents to 8 cents a share, excluding amortization of good will and charges, less than the 11 cents to 14 cents the company forecast in April, a spokeswoman said. 
Revenue was $338 million to $345 million, compared with BMC's earlier forecast of $355 million to $365 million. Some sales fell through at the end of the quarter because of the economic slowdown, the Houston-based company said. Earlier this week, the Compuware Corporation, a BMC rival, said its first-quarter sales fell short because it failed to close some European contracts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BMC SOFTWARE INC (93%); COMPUWARE CORP (84%)

TICKER: BMC (NASDAQ) (93%); CPWR (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



145 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW; 
'Superimposition'

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Caren Golden Fine Art
526 West 26th Street, Chelsea
Through July 27
 "Superflat," a much-noticed exhibition of contemporary Japanese work recently seen in Los Angeles, was about art skimmed from the slick surface of pop culture. "Superimposition," a group show of young American artists organized by the critic David Hunt, also takes pop culture as a reference, but points to a different art, one derived from stacking, layering, recession, depth. 
 An incremental dynamic is most obvious in sculpture. Richard Dupont creates a towering female nude by slicing up a life-size cast, then doubling all the pieces. Gedi Sibony pieces together a pair of legs from small stones and cement. Jeffrey Reed turns plywood, fluorescent lights and beer cans into a kind of heavy-metal altar, while Matthew Bakkom fashions a funereal-looking urn from meticulously stacked reels of "The Insider," a film starring Al Pacino that is based on a "60 Minutes" expose of the tobacco industry.
There are references to the illusory depths of video games in attractive paintings by Jon Widman and Luke Dowd, and in a spectacular one by Jay Davis, which transplants modernist architecture to the moon. The deep space of science fiction gets some play in Yorgo Alexopoulos's "Thrill of It All," a Minimalist wall piece that doubles as a star ship control panel, or the other way around. (Mr. Alexopoulos's work can also be seen in a solo show at Bronwyn Keenan in SoHo this month.)
Layering is subtle and abstract in a milky, luminous new painting by Jacqueline Humphries. It takes digital form in computer-generated prints by Marsha Cottrell and terrific multimedia animation by Jonathan Calm, titled "A Place to Live." Mr. Calm's piece, for all its high-tech polish, has a personal, stream-of-consciousness feel. The same is true in Jessica Rankin's "Constant Return," with its chartlike play of words -- read, overheard, spoken, obsessively thought about -- hand-embroidered in overlapping layers on sheets of opaque fabric.
"Superimposition" does not try to tell us anything definitive about new art. But it certainly gives a sense of its range, depth and quietly concentrated ambition. One comes away reminded afresh of how much of interest there is to choose from these days, and thinking how smart so many of Mr. Hunt's choices are.
 HOLLAND COTTER


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ANIMATION (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



146 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Franks Will Head Pharmaceutical Trade Group 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 5 

 BODY:
Former Representative Bob Franks, fresh from his second straight defeat in a statewide race, is about to embark on a campaign of a different sort, as the chief lobbyist for the pharmaceutical industry in New Jersey.
 Mr. Franks, who lost the Republican primary for governor to Bret D. Schundler on June 26, has been named president of the HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, a trade group representing 19 worldwide pharmaceutical and medical technology companies, officials confirmed today. 
 The group, formed in 1997, wants to make the pharmaceutical and biotech industries synonymous with New Jersey, the way the oil industry is associated with Texas or auto manufacturing with Michigan.
It bills itself not as a lobbying agency but as the voice of the industry, commissioning studies from time to time about the importance of the many biotechnology companies and makers of drugs and medical devices to the New Jersey economy. Those companies employed more than 60,000 people as of 1999.
But the group's three top employees are all lobbyists registered with the state, and group officials said today that Mr. Franks could find himself advocating stronger patent protection for makers of brand-name drugs that compete with generic-drug producers.
That would not be an entirely new position for Mr. Franks to take. In the recent primary campaign, he was derided as "the congressman from Claritin" by Mr. Schundler, who criticized him for sponsoring a patent-extension bill that would have helped Schering-Plough preserve its monopoly on the popular allergy medicine, Claritin.
Mr. Schundler also insinuated that Mr. Franks's loyalty to New Jersey pharmaceutical companies had been bought with campaign contributions. Drug makers gave him more than $250,000 in his race last year against Senator Jon S. Corzine, and Schering-Plough has given him more than $40,000 since 1994, according to the Schundler campaign.
Not long ago, Mr. Franks took umbrage at the suggestion that he had worked as a lobbyist. In a June 14 debate, Mr. Schundler noted that Mr. Franks had worked for Wayne Valis Associates, a Republican lobbying firm in Washington. "I was never a lobbyist, never chose to register, never would," Mr. Franks retorted.
Mr. Franks, who signed on as a co-chairman of Mr. Schundler's general-election campaign on June 27, will replace William H. Tremayne, who announced in December that he would be stepping down as president. A spokeswoman for the group, Rebecca D. Perkins, refused to confirm the selection of Mr. Franks today when questioned about it by a reporter, but then issued a news release, dated July 9, announcing his selection.
The group's chairman, Raymond V. Gilmartin, also the chairman and chief executive of Merck & Company, did not return telephone calls today. But in the release, he said, "With his significant political experience, Bob is an expert at elevating public understanding of complex issues."
Mr. Franks did not return calls to his office today. In the release, he said he looked forward "to advancing an industry that is dedicated to improving and saving lives."
People familiar with the search for Mr. Tremayne's successor said Mr. Franks first discussed taking the job several months ago, when he was looking for a lucrative job before running for the Senate against Robert G. Torricelli in 2002. Instead, he accepted a job at Wayne Valis Associates, but left two weeks later to the campaign trail when Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco withdrew from the Republican primary for governor. The job he has now is a lucrative one, after all; one person familiar with the position said it pays about $400,000 a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); LOBBYING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); PATENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (85%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



147 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Business Survey Adds to Evidence of a Rebound 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5 

 BODY:
Business other than manufacturing expanded in June for the first time in three months, an industry survey showed today, adding to evidence that the economy may have begun to pull out of a slowdown.
 The nonmanufacturing business index of the National Association of Purchasing Management rose to 52.1 last month, from 46.6 in May. The June reading was the highest this year and the first since March to reach above 50, which signals expansion. 
 The signs of strength at retailers, restaurants and other service industries come after reports this week that suggested manufacturing was starting to rebound. Today's survey "adds further weight to our view that the economy is turning up and should see decent growth" in the months ahead, said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
Still, the ability to recover may be limited by a rise in unemployment, which may undermine consumers' propensity to spend.
Initial jobless claims rose by 7,000, to 399,000, in the week ended Saturday, the Labor Department said today. The number of people collecting benefits rose to 3.027 million in the week ended June 23, the most since November 1992.
Businesses announced plans last month to eliminate 124,852 jobs, a 56 percent increase from May, according to the employment firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. The number of job cuts planned in the first six months of the year was three and a half times as much as the level in the period a year earlier, as companies cut work forces to help bolster profits.
"The biggest threat to the economy" is still dismissals by companies "and the effect that has on consumer income and consumer psychology," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.
The government's monthly employment report, to be issued on Friday, is expected to show that the jobless rate increased to 4.6 percent in June, from 4.4 percent in May, and that the economy lost jobs for a third consecutive month. The last time the economy lost jobs for three consecutive months was in 1991, a recession year.
The survey of nonfactory businesses is a companion report to the purchasing management association's manufacturing index, which has shown contraction for 11 consecutive months. The association gathers statistics from more than 370 purchasing executives in more than 62 industries.
Separately, an index compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago based on May data showed that the risk of recession for the economy increased to its highest point this year.
The Chicago Fed said its monthly National Activity Index recovered slightly, to -1.06 in May from a revised -1.23 in April. But the three-month moving average came in at -1.04, from -0.96 in April; the Chicago Fed said that reading suggested a greater risk of recession, which is loosely defined as at least two consecutive quarters of economic contraction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (81%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (54%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (58%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



148 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Canada Vote May Bring First Union to Japan Carmaker 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Ontario, July 5 

 BODY:
Only last month, J. D. Power & Associates named the Toyota plant here the best car factory in North America -- for the fourth time. The Harbour Report, by another industry consultant, ranked it the continent's most efficient producer of subcompact cars. 
 On Friday, the factory takes a step toward earning one more distinction, when its workers vote on whether to join the Canadian Auto Workers union. If the union wins, it will mark the first time that a Japanese-owned auto plant in North America has been unionized, not counting factories that began as joint ventures with American-based companies. 
 The vote is a challenge to the participatory management practices that Toyota Motor Manufacturing has pioneered, analysts say. The company tries to select team-minded employees, but the union argues that Toyota does not listen to its workers.
Further, a victory by the Canadian Auto Workers would give the union an advantage over the United Auto Workers union, with which it was once affiliated and maintains ties. 
Despite efforts over almost two decades, the U.A.W. has failed to organize any of the so-called transplant factories in the United States -- including plants owned by Toyota, Honda Motor, Nissan Motor, BMW and Mercedes-Benz -- since winning the right to represent workers at a Volkswagen factory in New Stanton, Pa. That plant opened in 1978 and closed a decade later. 
Currently, the U.A.W. is working to organize a Toyota plant in Georgetown, Ky. And though Daimler-Benz, in buyingChyrsler and forming DaimlerChrysler, agreed to remain neutral if the American union sought to organize workers at the Mercedes-Benz plant in Vance, Ala., the U.A.W. has not yet been able to win enough support to hold a vote there.
Toyota officials said they were confident that workers would reject the Canadian Auto Workers in Friday's vote. Plant officials, including Raymond Tanguay, the executive vice president, have lobbied against the union in meetings on the factory floor and in a video that was sent by courier to each worker's home.
In a letter distributed to workers at a shift change this afternoon, Takanori Sakaue, president and chief executive of Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada, wrote: "The vote is by secret ballot. You are under no obligation to vote 'yes' simply because you signed a union card."
But union leaders say that workers have become increasingly frustrated with Toyota managers, who they say do not listen to workers' concerns even though the company is noted for a production system that is based on employee participation and encourages suggestions.
"We want to put them on notice that their system has some flaws," said Tom Rooke, the union official in charge of the two-year effort to organize the plant here, about an hour west of Toronto. "They either are going to start to listen, or they're going to be punished."
The union drive is not focused on wages and benefits; assembly line workers here get the same pay as union members at the other plants in Canada. "What good are wages and benefits if your body cannot keep up to the pace," read a leaflet distributed by the union today. "What is not competitive at Toyota are the rights of the workers on the shop floor."
Gary N. Chaison, a professor of labor relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., said that the vote is proof that Toyota's practice of carefully selecting employees for their fit into its corporate philosophy may not be fail-safe.
"Toyota's degree of participatory management may have been working all right for a while, but workers are wondering: are we better off with a union than without one?" he said.
The union has struggled in retaining its traditional strength at plants owned by the major automakers. It conducted a bitter strike against General Motors in 1996, in part over the company's plans to sell or close parts plants, and it faces the probable shutdown of G.M.'s assembly plant in Ste. Therese, Quebec, sometime in the next few years. This winter, Chrysler canceled plans to build a new plant in Windsor, Ontario, and is cutting 2,800 jobs in Canada as part of a turnaround effort.
The vote on Friday was ordered by the Ontario Labor Relations Board after the union declared that it had collected the signatures of 40 percent of the workers it hopes to represent. The outcome will not be known until July 31 at the earliest -- and perhaps never because of Canadian labor laws, which differ significantly from those in the United States.
In the United States, a union must collect signatures from 30 percent of the workers it seeks to represent, though in practice unions typically try to collect signatures from 50 percent or more to guarantee a substantial margin of victory. Then, the National Labor Relations Board hears challenges from both labor and management before deciding whether to hold an election. The vote is conducted within 50 days of an order from the board.
In Ontario, elections are held more quickly, with challenges left until after the vote. 
The main fight between Toyota and the union will be over the size of the bargaining unit. The Canadian Auto Workers say they want to represent 1,950 workers; the 800 signatures submitted by the union barely met the 40 percent threshold for a work force of that size.
Toyota says that the plant has 2,440 workers and that the union has fallen "significantly short" of the needed support, according to Greig Mordue, manager of corporate affairs at the plant. Those not counted by the union include team leaders who supervise small groups of workers on the factory floor, students on hand for the summer and contract workers on staff for a limited period. 
The Ontario labor board agreed to a request by Toyota that the ballots be sealed immediately after the vote. A series of hearings has already been scheduled later this month. If Toyota prevails in its challenge, the ballots may be discarded, according to Ron Lebi, the labor board solicitor overseeing the election. In that case, the union would have to wait a year before seeking another vote.
But if the votes are counted, the union needs only a majority of those voting in order to win.
Mr. Rooke said that union leaders had decided it was time to seek an outcome in the organizing campaign at Toyota. "We worried if we waited any longer, we would lose momentum," Mr. Rooke said.
Mr. Mordue, the Toyota official, said that the company was confident the vote would not hurt its relationship with its workers. "No one inside the plant asked the C.A.W. to come in here," he said. "The C.A.W. came to this plant."
Freddie Lopes, 35, who has worked at the plant 12 years, said Toyota management was unsympathetic to workers' complaints that they were overburdened. Echoing other workers', he said that employees did not seek treatment for injuries for fear they would be reprimanded. "We build a good car," Mr. Lopes said. "We've put in all the ideas over the years to make the car better." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Union organizers, above, at the Toyota plant in Cambridge, Ontario, passed out fliers yesterday. At right, Tom Rooke, the Canadian Auto Workers official in charge of the organizing effort. (Photographs by Jeff Kowalsky for The New York Times)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (95%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); LOBBYING (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR MANUFACTURING USA INC (56%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); HNDA (LSE) (83%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); 7201 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



149 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: EMC Says Quarterly Earnings Will Fall Short 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: HOPKINTON, Mass., July 5 

 BODY:
The EMC Corporation, which makes data storage equipment for big corporate computer systems, warned today that its revenues and earnings for the second quarter would fall well short of Wall Street estimates because of the global slowdown in technology spending.
 EMC said it expected second-quarter revenues to be about $2 billion, and earnings per share to be 4 to 6 cents. 
That compared with the Wall Street consensus for earnings of 17 cents a share and revenues of $2.43 billion. 
 Joseph M. Tucci, the company's chief executive, said EMC's business was being hurt "with each unanticipated downward step in the global economy."
"The earnings results for EMC's major customers -- the bulk of the S.& P. 500, for example -- have been like a ball rolling down a hill for each of the past three quarters," Mr. Tucci said. "When our customers earn less money, most of them have less to spend on I.T." 
EMC, once seen as a safe haven for investors because of booming growth in corporate computer use, has succumbed to the same technology slowdown that has hit other sectors. 
The company said that the slowdown in the United States had spread globally and that its impact had been aggravated by a strong dollar.
"As a result, sales cycles have continued to elongate," said William J. Teuber Jr., EMC's chief financial officer. "We expect gross margins for the second quarter will be in the mid-40 percent range, reflecting several factors: lower sales volume than anticipated, customer incentive programs, and our competitive pricing actions."
EMC plans to announce complete second-quarter results on July 18.
Shares of EMC fell 10 percent, to $27, in after-hours trading. In the regular session, shares fell 5 percent, or $1.59, closing at $30.03. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); SALES PROMOTIONS (69%); US DOLLAR (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (97%)

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



150 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: City Requests $160 Million To Fix Up Homes in Scandal 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
City officials have urged the federal government to spend $160 million -- twice as much as it had planned -- to rehabilitate hundreds of brownstones and other properties caught up in a home mortgage scandal that has hobbled revitalization efforts in Harlem, Brooklyn and elsewhere.
 Under the plan, outlined in a June 13 letter from the city housing commissioner, Jerilyn Perine, to officials at the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, the city would assume responsibility for renovating the buildings, using its existing programs and federal money. 
 Nearly 600 properties in the city were bought through schemes to defraud a federally insured mortgage program known as 203(k) that was intended to foster homeownership in poor neighborhoods. Of these, about half are vacant and half are occupied. Almost all of them are in foreclosure or are owned by HUD. Since January 1998, the city has found about 19,000 housing code violations at these properties and has spent more than $1 million on emergency repairs on the occupied properties. 
Under the schemes, which began in 1998, real estate speculators bought properties and then quickly resold them at vastly inflated prices, a practice known as flipping. The speculators sold the properties to nonprofit groups that did not have experience in providing housing and ultimately defaulted on the loans. Nineteen people have been arrested in the case so far, and nine have pleaded guilty. Sentencing will take place in the fall, prosecutors said. 
Before leaving office in January, Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo of HUD introduced a plan to rehabilitate the properties for an unspecified amount of money and then turn them over to community development groups with a long track record in providing housing for low-income families. That plan was scrapped by the new administration, which said it was willing to spend $80 million -- a sum that city officials say is unrealistically low -- to make the properties habitable, and then sell them on the open market.
HUD's rejection of the Cuomo plan fueled speculation that the Bush administration was reluctant to bail out Mr. Cuomo from an embarrassing situation that occurred during his tenure. Mr. Cuomo is running in next year's governor's race in New York.
A HUD spokesman said yesterday that the department was reviewing Ms. Perine's proposal but had made no decision. Ms. Perine said yesterday that HUD officials were taking the proposal seriously but were concerned about the cost. "They've come back with technical questions," she said. "It's not like they're not focusing on this. They are."
Ms. Perine said that the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development had an interest in ensuring that the 203(k) properties were rehabilitated, because abandoned buildings attract vagrants and vandalism, and many are on blocks where the agency invested in fixing up city-owned buildings. Since 1994, she said, the city has renovated more than 54,000 housing units. "We have an interest in getting these buildings into the right hands," she said, referring to the 203(k) properties.
Ms. Perine's proposal has the support of the groups that had been involved in the Cuomo plan. "There is mutual agreement among parties who usually don't agree," said Michael Gecan, a senior organizer for the Industrial Areas Foundation, which is working with one of the would-be participants in the Cuomo deal, the East Brooklyn Congregations, a consortium of 40 groups.
Karen A. Phillips, the chief executive of the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem, said the city's proposal would prevent the 203(k) houses from destabilizing neighborhoods and falling prey to new speculators. "We know that the city already has the infrastructure in place to ensure that these houses get done without reinventing the wheel," she said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "INVENTORY: Buildings By Borough"The city has proposed a remedy for most of the buildings bought in schemes to defraud a federal home mortgage program. BrooklynOCCUPIED: 211VACANT: 107 BronxOCCUPIED: 10VACANT: 7 ManhattanOCCUPIED: 42VACANT: 143 QueensOCCUPIED: 19VACANT: 5 TOTALOCCUPIED: 282VACANT: 262 (Source: City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); SENTENCING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); ARRESTS (65%); GOVERNORS (64%); VANDALISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



151 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Bush Telephones Jiang To Ease U.S.-China Strains
President Bush and President Jiang Zemin talked for the first time, and Mr. Bush brought up recent arrests of American citizens and green-card holders by Chinese security forces, administration officials said. But Mr. Bush's overall message, a senior official said, was that "we now have to build a better relationship." A1

Okinawa Rape Case
The United States and Japan were close to agreeing on legal guarantees for an Air Force sergeant suspected of raping a Japanese woman on Okinawa. Such an agreement could clear the way for him to be handed over to local officials before an indictment, the United States ambassador to Japan said. A3

Rift Over Cole Blast Inquiry
The American ambassador barred the head of the F.B.I. team investigating the bombing of the destroyer Cole from returning to Yemen in a dispute over the handling of the inquiry. A6

A Truce in Macedonia
The government and ethnic Albanian rebels, under heavy pressure from Western powers, signed a formal cease-fire agreement as a first concrete step toward heading off another ethnic war in the Balkans. A1

Criticism for Bosnian Serbs
The chief prosecutor of the war crimes tribunal at The Hague accused the Bosnian Serb republic of sheltering two suspects, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic. A8

Uncertain Footing in Normandy
Hundreds of craters and fissures have opened in eastern Normandy, sometimes right under houses. The cause has been attributed to abandoned underground quarries. A1

Climate Compromise Proposed
The chairman of a United Nations conference negotiating a climate treaty said he was willing to delay the date by which countries would have to start cutting emissions of heat-trapping gases. The offer was widely seen as a bid to gain Japanese support for the treaty. A3

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A10-15

Bush Picks a Prosecutor To Head the F.B.I.
President Bush nominated the United States attorney in San Francisco, Robert S. Mueller III, 56, to take over the F.B.I. as its director. If confirmed by the Senate, he will inherit an agency buffeted by accusations that it has become undisciplined, mistake-prone and poorly managed. A1

Insurance Before Birth
The Bush administration has drafted a policy that would let states define "an unborn child" as a person eligible for medical coverage under the Children's Health Insurance Program. Officials say it will increase insurance coverage for prenatal care and deliveries, but critics see it as an anti-abortion subterfuge to establish a legal precedent for recognizing the fetus as a person. A1

Stakes Raised in Water Dispute
Federal officials in Klamath Falls, Ore., sought help from the F.B.I. and federal marshals after farmers, angry that water was being withheld during a drought to protect endangered fish, opened an irrigation canal three times in a week. A10

Chief Discusses Missing Intern
The Washington police chief said investigators had all but ruled out suicide in the disappearance of Chandra Levy but were no closer to solving the case than they were nine weeks ago. They are still treating the case as a missing-person investigation, not a homicide, he said, though foul play has not been ruled out. A10

Attitudes on Youthful Drinking
A poll found that 84 percent of teenagers favor keeping or raising the legal drinking age of 21, though teenage drinking remains widespread. A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Heart Patient Able to Talk
The man who received the first self-contained artificial heart was disconnected from the ventilator that helps him breathe for nine hours and was able to talk with his family, doctors said. They hope to wean him from the device after the weekend. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Ecological Mystery Putting Vital Bay Marshes at Risk
Thousands of acres of marshy islands in Jamaica Bay, which provide nesting and feeding areas for vast populations of birds and other wildlife, are rapidly and mysteriously vanishing, according to scientists who recently met to study the problem. They said the marshes could be gone within 20 years. A1

Plan to Maintain Blood Supply
The federal government is devising a plan to alleviate any blood shortages in the New York City area that could be caused by new restrictions on donors who might have been exposed to mad cow disease in Europe. B1

Recalculating Census Numbers
John R. Logan, a sociology professor at SUNY Albany, said his recalculation of 2000 census data put the number of Dominicans in New York City at 593,777, or 186,304 higher than the Census Bureau's official count. His numbers for other Latin American groups in the city were also higher than the government's. B1

EDUCATION

New Guidelines for College Aid
Yale, Cornell, Stanford and 25 other leading institutions plan to announce new guidelines today for financial aid eligibility in an effort to put greater emphasis on need-based assistance and less on merit. A13

SPORTS D1-8

Capriati Derailed
Jennifer Capriati failed in her bid for the third part of a Grand Slam, losing in the Wimbledon semifinals to Justine Henin, 6-2, 4-6, 2-6. Henin faces Venus Williams, who beat Lindsay Davenport, 6-2, 6-7 (1), 6-1. D1

OBITUARIES B7

Ely Callaway
The founder of Callaway Golf, the largest maker of clubs, was 82. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Canadian Auto Workers to Vote
Workers at the Toyota plant in Cambridge, Ontario, vote today on whether to join the Canadian Auto Workers union and make their factory the first Japanese-owned auto plant in North America to be unionized, other than plants that began as joint ventures with American-based companies. C1

Official Economic Optimism
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said he would carry a message of optimism about the United States economy to a meeting with his counterparts from other big industrial nations on Saturday in Rome. C6

Business other than manufacturing expanded in June for the first time in three months, adding to evidence that the economy may have begun to pull out of a slowdown. C6

Retailer Lowers Its Sights
Federated Department Stores, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, cut its profit forecast, citing slow sales and steep markdowns. C6

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-38

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Stem cell politics; a nominee for the F.B.I.; the other war crimes tribunal.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E23
TV Listings E27
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MARSHALS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); WAR CRIMES (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); AIR FORCES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); WATER RIGHTS (68%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (64%); CHILDREN (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); EMISSIONS (63%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (61%); DROUGHT (61%); ABORTION (60%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (50%); IRRIGATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); NETHERLANDS (79%); YEMEN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



152 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Troubled Yonkers Co-op Finances a Fresh Start

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
An 89-apartment co-op in Yonkers has emerged from bankruptcy after years of financial struggle that included damages it was assessed in a racial discrimination lawsuit.
 Under a reorganization plan approved last week by the Federal Bankruptcy Court in White Plains, the Michelangelo Apartments co-op refinanced its underlying mortgage, adding $1 million in debt but stabilizing its finances. The co-op, a 10-story structure at 687 Bronx River Road, had been troubled since it converted from a rental building in 1989. The loss of the legal challenge in 2000 pushed the co-op to file for bankruptcy protection that year. 
 The lender is the Community Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit consortium of New York banks and insurance companies that finance moderately priced housing. The new mortgage replaces a loan from the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.
The added money in the $4.1 million mortgage is to be used for improvements to the 25-year-old building, like repairing terraces and balconies. The new mortgage will also be used to pay the legal judgment, as well as to set up a reserve fund that will be increased by $12,000 a year.
To pay the new debt and generate a positive cash flow, monthly maintenance fees, which were already high compared with those at other co-ops in the area, were raised 10 percent. The fees are $375 to $1,075 a month for the studio-to-two-bedroom units.
Jeffrey Treisman, president of the co-op board and a 14-year resident, said not all shareholders were pleased by the increase. But he added, "Many realized the bankruptcy was necessary to preserve their equity and are optimistic of the co-op's ongoing financial viability." He said the previous financial problems resulted largely from ineffective management.
"The alternative, foreclosure, was unpalatable," said Steven A. Kirschenbaum, the lawyer for the apartment corporation and a partner at the Manhattan law firm of Hartman & Craven.
Mr. Kirschenbaum said co-op shareholders, who make payments for their part of the building's underlying mortgage as part of the monthly charges allocated to their apartments, can lose their investment if the mortgage is foreclosed, while remaining liable for the individual loans they have taken to buy their apartments. Given the issues affecting the Yonkers building, he said, it took time to find a lender willing to work out a deal.
Sadie McKeown, a senior vice president of the Community Preservation Corporation and director of its Hawthorne, N.Y., office, said her company got involved because the building has a number of positive points. Among them, she said, is that rents being paid for apartments that are being rented out by their owners are greater than the monthly maintenance fees, indicating that the building, if necessary, would work economically as a rental. 
A year or two after Michelangelo Apartments was converted to a co-op, 54 units were sold to resident owners and investors for $35,700 to $110,000. The remaining 35 units are owned by the original sponsor, who, like other investors, leases those apartments at monthly rents of $750 to $1,500. 
With the recession of the early 90's the co-op's problems worsened. Improvements were delayed, and some owners moved away and rented out their units because they could not sell them at the prices they paid. Other owners defaulted on their apartment loans and their units were taken over by the co-op, which resold them at reduced prices. And for four of the last five years, the owners paid a special assessment equal to one month's maintenance just to meet the co-op's expenses. 
The final straw was the lawsuit, filed against the co-op corporation and a former board president by an investor owner and his tenants, an interracial couple. In 1999, the co-op was found liable for racial discrimination and found in violation of the federal Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the state Human Rights Law. The judgment was upheld in 2000. Unable to pay the $435,000 in damages and legal fees or to refinance its existing loan, the co-op filed for bankruptcy protection.
Since then the co-op has put in place a new board of directors, superintendent and managing agent. And under the reorganization plan, the 30-year mortgage from Community Preservation Corporation will enable the co-op to pay the judgment, which was negotiated to $340,000, set aside $350,000 for repairs, pay $95,000 in bankruptcy administrative expenses and establish the reserve.
There are struggles ahead. While the high maintenance fees are expected to depress sale prices, Mr. Treisman, the co-op board's president, said, "Over time prices will rebound somewhat, which will afford owners a better opportunity to sell their apartments."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 89-apartment co-op at 687 Bronx River Road in Yonkers. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); INSURANCE (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (71%); JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



153 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Red Tide Rising

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.

 BODY:
During the debate over George W. Bush's tax cut, administration officials told wavering supporters not to worry. The Congressional Budget Office, they insisted, was underestimating future surpluses; in fact there would be plenty of money, even after the tax cut, for other priorities. 
 Whoops. No sooner had Mr. Bush signed that tax cut into law than those same officials began admitting that the budget outlook wasn't that rosy after all. In fact, revenue is dropping like a stone. A suspicious man might wonder about the timing: isn't it strange that the bad news on revenue came to light only after the tax cut had passed? 
 In any case, get ready for more bad news. When the Budget Office updates its projections next month, it is certain to mark them down, not up -- and that will be just the beginning of a dismal trend. Forget about those budget surpluses as far as the eye can see; from now on the prospect is for chronic budget shortfalls.
By "shortfalls" I don't exactly mean deficits. The federal government as a whole will probably take in more money than it puts out for a decade or so, until the baby boomers reach retirement age. But more than all of this surplus will come from Medicare and Social Security. And those programs are supposed to run surpluses, to build up reserves for the demographic deluge. The rest of the budget will be in deficit; in effect, the tax cut will come at the expense of the retirement trust funds.
Of course, administration officials play down the sudden budget deterioration, saying that the surplus will return once the economy recovers. But it won't. Yes, corporate profits taxes -- the big item in this year's revenue slump -- will bounce at least partway back. But income tax receipts will steadily decline, as those huge tax cuts for the rich phase in. And the spending assumptions used to justify those tax cuts already look ludicrously low. In particular, the Bush administration has already asked for far more defense spending than it admitted it wanted before the tax cut passed, and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld hasn't even started on his real shopping list. 
None of this should come as a surprise. Anyone who was paying attention knew that to sell the tax cut Mr. Bush's people deliberately underestimated the cut's impact on revenues; deliberately underestimated the cost of delivering on the administration's promises on defense, education and prescription drugs; and deliberately swept under the rug other budget issues, like the need to fix the alternative minimum tax, that will inevitably subtract hundreds of billions from the surplus. In short, the claim that the tax cut was easily affordable given other priorities was what is technically known as a "lie." 
The only real question was how long they would get away with it. Without the economic slump, they might have maintained plausible deniability until 2003 or 2004; because of the slump, the moment of truth is already here.
Now comes the spinning.
At first the Bush team's line will be that the economic slump is the sole cause of the shortfall. Once that line has been exhausted, they will move the goal posts -- saying that while the Social Security surplus is in a "lockbox," the Medicare surplus is fair game. This position makes no sense; both programs serve retirees, so both should be accumulating reserves to deal with the baby boomers. But this argument might succeed in confusing some people. 
Finally, when it becomes apparent that the tax cut will cut into the Social Security trust fund too -- quite possibly as soon as next year -- we'll be told that this doesn't matter, that the trust fund is a mere accounting fiction. (In fact, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill has already started saying this.) And in a way that's true. But it's an accounting fiction with a purpose -- namely, to prevent irresponsible politicians from undermining the government's long-term ability to honor its promises. Alas, it failed. 
If the Senate had known six weeks ago what it knows now, it wouldn't have approved that huge, irresponsible tax cut. But now it's too late; proposals to scale the cut back don't have much of a chance as long as this administration is in office.
The truth is that moderates who voted for that tax cut were snookered. And the nation will spend years paying for the consequences of their gullibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001 



154 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: What Is The Next Big Idea? The Buzz Is Growing 

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN 

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C. 

 BODY:
It comes along only once every decade or so, typically arriving without much fanfare. But soon it is everywhere: dominating conferences, echoing in lecture halls, flooding scholarly journals. Every graduate student dreams of being the one to think it up: the Next Big Idea.
 In the 1960's it was Claude Levi-Strauss and structuralism. In the 1970's and 1980's it was Jacques Derrida and deconstruction, Michel Foucault and poststructuralism and Jacques Lacan and psychoanalysis, followed by various theorists of postcolonialism and New Historicism. 
 And now scholars are wondering if the latest contender for academia's next master theorist is Michael Hardt, a self-effacing, 41-year-old associate professor of literature at Duke University and the co-author of "Empire," a heady treatise on globalization that is sending frissons of excitement through campuses from Sao Paulo to Tokyo. 
Since Harvard University Press published the book in March last year, translation rights have been sold in 10 countries, including Japan and Croatia; the leading Brazilian newspaper has put it on the cover of its Sunday magazine; and Dutch television has broadcast a documentary about it. Fredric Jameson, America's leading Marxist literary critic, has called it "the first great new theoretical synthesis of the new millennium," while the equally eminent Slovenian political philosopher Slavoj Zizek has declared it "nothing less than a rewriting of the 'The Communist Manifesto' for our time."
During the same period, Mr. Hardt has given 21 academic talks and received tenure from Duke (a year early). And the compliments keep coming.
"He's definitely hot," said Xudong Zhang, a professor of comparative literature and East Asian Studies at New York University, who taught a graduate seminar on "Empire" for the second time this spring. Masao Miyoshi, a professor of literature at the University of California at San Diego, said, "He's one of the very few younger people who will have an impact."
There is no question that Mr. Hardt is unusually talented. But talent alone does not provoke scholarly commotion. Other factors must also be at work. For one thing, the topic must be in vogue; and globalization happens to be the trendy subject right now.
Then there is the allure of Mr. Hardt's flamboyant co-author, Antonio Negri, a 68-year-old Italian philosopher and suspected terrorist mastermind who is serving a 13-year prison sentence in Rome for inciting violence during the turbulent 1970's.
In large part, however, the fuss over Mr. Hardt and "Empire" is about something else: the need in fields like English, history and philosophy for a major new theory. "Literary theory has been dead for 10 years," said Stanley Aronowitz, a sociologist at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "The most important point about 'Empire' is that Michael is addressing the crisis in the humanities, which has reached the point where banality seems to pervade the sphere."
Indeed, by the end of the 1990's, the sweeping approaches of the previous decades had been exhausted. Yet no powerful new idea emerged to take their place. A deep pessimism crept over the humanities. Today, scholars complain, their fields are fragmented and rudderless.
So just what does a disquisition on globalization have to offer scholars in crisis?
First, there is the book's broad sweep and range of learning. Spanning nearly 500 pages of densely argued history, philosophy and political theory, it features sections on imperial Rome, Haitian slave revolts, the American Constitution and the Persian Gulf war, and references to dozens of thinkers like Machiavelli, Spinoza, Hegel, Hobbes, Kant, Marx and Foucault. In short, the book has the formal trappings of a master theory in the old European tradition.
Then there is the theory itself. Globalization isn't simply the latest phase in the history of imperialism and nation-states, the authors declare. It's something radically new. Where other scholars and the media depict countries vying for control of world markets, Mr. Hardt and Mr. Negri instead discern a new political system and a new form of power taking root. They call it Empire.
Unlike historical empires, however, this one has no emperor, no geographic capital and no single seat of power. In fact, given the authors' abstruse formulation, it's almost easier to say what Empire isn't than what it is: a fluid, infinitely expanding and highly organized system that encompasses the world's entire population. It's a system that no one person, corporation or country can control. (It's also apparently still under construction. One hallmark of Empire is "supranational organisms," few of which seem to exist yet. The authors regard the United Nations, for example, as a precursor of a "real supranational center.")
More surprising still, Empire is good news: it's potentially the most democratic political system to hit the face of the earth. As Mr. Hardt puts it, "The thing we call Empire is actually an enormous historical improvement over the international system and imperialism." The reason? Because power under Empire is widely dispersed, so presumably just about anyone could affect its course.
"Empire creates a greater potential for revolution than did the modern regimes of power," the authors write, "because it presents us, alongside the machine of command, with an alternative: the set of all the exploited and the subjugated, a multitude that is directly opposed to Empire, with no mediation between them."
The book is full of such bravura passages. Whether presenting new concepts -- like Empire and the multitude -- or urging revolution, it brims with confidence in its ideas. Does it have the staying power and broad appeal necessary to become the next master theory? It is too soon to say. But for the moment, "Empire" is filling a void in the humanities.
For literary scholars it is evidence that the work they do is politically important. They are not simply analyzing Milton's religious convictions or parsing "Finnegans Wake," they argue, but shedding light on the way the world really works. Consider deconstruction; it revolutionized scholars' understanding of language. Lacanian psychoanalysis did the same for the human psyche. In a similar way, "Empire" lays out a new way of thinking about global politics. When it comes to understanding current events, the book insists, even literary scholars have something important to contribute. And at a moment of disciplinary crisis, that's a message that's bound to appeal.
Michele Lamont, a sociologist at Princeton University, argued as much in a famous article titled "How to Become a Dominant French Philosopher: The Case of Jacques Derrida," which appeared in The American Journal of Sociology in 1987. She concluded that Mr. Derrida's popularity had less to do with the intrinsic value of his ideas than with his "sophisticated writing style," "distinctive theoretical framework" and lucky timing. Deconstruction, she wrote, "was an answer to a disciplinary crisis." His famously stylish clothes and his thick French accent didn't hurt either.
Of course, Mr. Hardt can't trade on credentials like those. Not that long ago he even had trouble finding a job. With a Ph.D. in comparative literature from the University of Washington at Seattle, he lacked both an Ivy League diploma and the kind of narrow specialization that many academic departments look for these days.
"I applied to French, Italian, English, political science and philosophy departments," he recalled recently over lunch at an Italian restaurant near the Duke campus. "But the reality of it is that almost no one would hire me."
With his soft voice, denim jacket and unruly dark hair, Mr. Hardt looks and sounds more like an idealistic graduate student than a rapidly rising star scholar. When he did land a job in the Italian department at the University of Southern California in 1993, he said, he found himself at odds with colleagues in his field.
"I went to a conference on Marx and deconstruction," he recalled. "I listened to a series of papers that were so convoluted and abstract. The speakers said they were talking about politics, but I couldn't understand a thing political about them. I was so frustrated after the weekend that on the Monday after, I called the state prison commission and found out how I could volunteer teaching at the local prison."
By this time he was already collaborating with Mr. Negri. Inspired by the Italian philosopher's writings and political activism, Mr. Hardt had asked a friend to introduce them during a visit to Paris, where Mr. Negri had fled to avoid serving his jail sentence. (In 1997, he returned to Rome -- and went directly to prison.) They began collaborating on "Empire" in 1994.
From a professional standpoint, it was a risky move. Though Mr. Hardt had published a book of his own (on the French philosopher Gilles Deleuze), he had no obvious area of specialization. Moreover, interest in contemporary Italian philosophy was small in the United States.
For Mr. Hardt, the risks obviously paid off. Of course, his book has skeptics. Some say nation-states are as strong as ever; that the book fails to back up its theory with facts; that it's hobbled by Marxist ideology.
"The argument that the world exhibits a completely different power structure is at least grossly hyperbolic and more probably merely false," said John Gray, a professor of European thought at the London School of Economics, who has published his own critique of globalization, "False Dawn" (New Press, 1999). " 'Empire' theorizes the current state of the world in a way which produces romantically alluring phrases that gloss over the actual conflicts, discontinuities, uncertainties and sheer unknowability of the world and its power relations today."
Such criticisms don't seem to bother Mr. Hardt. He says he is pleased that the book has found an audience outside what he calls "our small fanatical readership." He has few illusions that he is the next Derrida.
"I'm sure I'm not," he said. "Toni and I don't think of this as a very original book. We're putting together a variety of things that others have said. That's why it's been so well received. It's what people have been thinking but not really articulated."
And he readily concedes that "Empire" has flaws. Mr. Zizek complained that for a book that preaches revolution, it had an unforgivable omission: no how-to manual. Mr. Hardt agreed:
"I wrote him an e-mail and said, 'Yes, it's true we don't know what the revolution should be.' And he wrote back saying, 'Yeah, well, I don't know either.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Hardt, a co-author of "Empire," at a favorite place near Duke University. (Bruce R. Feeley for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Antonio Negri, co-author of "Empire," in 1983, when he was arrested. (Associated Press)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); WRITERS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (69%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); SENTENCING (60%); TERRORISM (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%) DUKE UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: EAKIN, EMILY; HARDT, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



155 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 337 words

PERSON: Leo Clair Beebe 

HEADLINE: Leo C. Beebe, 83, Led Industrial Equipment Maker 

BYLINE:  By MARCIN SKOMIAL

 BODY:
Leo Clair Beebe, the former chairman and chief executive of K-Tron International, which makes equipment used in processing for industries ranging from food to chemicals, died on June 30 at a hospital near his home in Jacksonville Beach, Fla. He was 83.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Edward B. Cloues II, the chief executive of K-Tron. 
 After nine years on K-Tron's board, Mr. Beebe succeeded the company's founder as chairman and chief executive in 1985, overseeing K-Tron's global expansion.
Mr. Beebe first retired from K-Tron, which is based in Pitman, N.J., in 1992, the same year the company acquired a German concern. That purchase led to a financial crisis, and Mr. Beebe returned as chief executive in 1995 to restore the financial stability of the company. Mr. Beebe retired again in 1998 but continued to serve as a director.
Before his career at K-Tron, Mr. Beebe was a professor at Glassboro State College in Glassboro, N.J., which is now Rowan University. He was dean of Glassboro's business school from 1977 to 1985.
Before going to Glassboro, Mr. Beebe spent 28 years at Ford Motor. At Ford, he took leaves to handle public service assignments. In the late 1950's, as vice chairman of the Committee for Hungarian Refugees, he organized and directed the resettlement of 35,000 Hungarian refugees in the United States. 
In 1969, Mr. Beebe was lent from Ford to handle the operations of the National Alliance of Businessmen, where he was responsible for finding 100,000 jobs for the unemployed. Within six months the alliance had secured nearly 200,000 jobs.
Mr. Bebee was born on July 20, 1917, in Williamsburg, Mich. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in communications from Glassboro State.
Mr. Bebee is survived by his wife, Jan Wyss Beebe of Houston; a daughter, Anne Beebe of Lansing, Mich.; a son, Peter Thompson Beebe of Seattle; a stepdaughter, Catherine Jacobs van Merlen of Houston; a stepson, Marc Gisar of Philadelphia; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (77%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); CANCER (57%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (69%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (69%); F (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (69%) SIC3823 PROCESS CONTROL INSTRUMENTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); LANSING, MI, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



156 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: New York City Schools Chancellor Warns Superintendents of Layoffs and Other Cuts 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy warned the Board of Education's district superintendents yesterday to prepare for layoffs and other cuts if City Hall fails to provide adequate funding for schools.
 While his words were directed at administrators inside the school system, Mr. Levy was clearly seeking to send a message to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the City Council and state leaders in Albany. 
 He wants City Hall to help ward off a $120 million shortfall with an increase in spending, and the Legislature to end its stalemate over education spending.
In a memorandum, Mr. Levy told the 40 superintendents -- the chief administrators of the 32 community school districts, high school superintendents and others -- to make cuts in district administrative staff before making any reductions in instructional or support services to students. 
He also asked them to look at nonclassroom initiatives like professional development to ensure that "only the ones proven effective are funded."
Mr. Levy stopped short of spelling out the scope of the cuts he anticipated, saying that would come later.
In Albany, Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature are still far apart on a budget agreement. A tentative budget for the Board of Education includes an increase of $200 million, including $50 million in city funds, for a total spending plan of $11.5 billion. 
But board officials said they needed an additional $120 million from the city to keep pace with inflation and other cost increases, and that is why Mr. Levy is ordering the contingency cuts.
City officials said they had offered to address the shortfall. In June, the mayor and the City Council said that they would allot additional money in the fall to the board for school-based programs if the board demonstrated that it was cutting the size of the bureaucracy. 
The size of the central board has been the source of constant disputes between the mayor and the board. In February, Mr. Levy announced a program to reduce the operating expenses of the central board by about $20 million. Later, he hired McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, to study the central board's structure and recommend changes. In June, he ordered a hiring freeze on administrators at the central offices.
About 3,000 people work in administrative positions for the central board, which could be significantly reduced after the reorganization. 
Aides to Mr. Levy said yesterday that the McKinsey study would be made public soon.
Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles said the mayor was waiting to see the administrative cuts.
"What the board should be doing is thinning and pruning its bureaucracy so that the billions of dollars it receives goes into the classrooms, not into administrative costs," Mr. Coles said. "The real problem at the Board of Education is not so much the amount of money it receives but how it spends the money."
Mr. Levy, in his memorandum, described other factors that would almost certainly cause trouble for the schools, including the absence of a contract for teachers. 
The school system would be required to pay the first $180 million of any raises negotiated under a new contract, said Steven Sanders, the Democratic chairman of the State Assembly's education committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%) HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



157 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Hits Record Low On Currency 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Brazil's currency touched a record low yesterday, and some analysts said they did not expect the fall would stop until the country's central bank pushed interest rates even higher than they already are.
 Currencies in other emerging market countries, including Mexico, also dropped as some investors worried about contagion, the problems of one emerging market country spilling over into others. 
 "It is turning out to be a difficult year from Mexico to Argentina," said Arturo C. Porzecanski, chief economist for emerging markets at ABN Amro. "Little by little each engine in the world economy is shutting down," he added. "And these countries are being choked off because they can't export and can't attract capital." 
The problem for Brazil is partly its own making, partly a result of the economic slowdown worldwide and partly fallout from the severe financial problems being experienced by its neighbor, Argentina. All of these have combined to make foreigners less willing to invest there.
In addition, this year's plunge in the value of the real, which is down 20 percent against the dollar, has prompted many Brazilian businesses to hedge against further declines. This has added downward pressure on the currency because hedging requires selling the real now before it falls further.
In trading yesterday, the value of the real fell as much as 3 percent, to 2.545, its lowest since Brazil allowed its currency to trade freely in January 1999. But it rallied in late afternoon trading in New York to 2.4315, up 1.5 percent from Thursday. But traders said there was no change in attitude about the financial outlook. The Mexican peso dropped 0.9 percent, to 9.141 pesos. Argentina's currency is pegged to the dollar so it rose along with the American currency.
The real fell yesterday morning despite the announcement on Thursday that the Brazilian central bank would spend $6 billion in the second half of the year to support the country's currency. The possibility that some of that buying was done yesterday afternoon probably helped the real rebound.
Latin American stock markets also fell yesterday, with Brazil's down 1 percent, Mexico's off 1.5 percent and Argentina's down 0.8 percent.
"The central bank of Brazil will have to increase interest rates more to stabilize the currency," said Jose Luis Daza, head of emerging markets strategy at Deutsche Bank Securities. The country's benchmark interest rate was already increased 1.5 percentage points last month, to 18.25 percent.
But with the economic problems in Argentina becoming worse, Jose M. Barrionuevo, director of emerging markets strategy and economics at BNP Paribas, said that Brazil will have a tough time stabilizing its currency "until you get Argentina out of the way."
He said that Argentina was running out of options and that he now expected the country would face an involuntary restructuring of foreign debt. A voluntary restructuring, which delayed billions of dollars of payments for several years, was done last month.
"Argentina as a country cannot afford the kind of spending the government wants," he said. But there is not much chance of major spending cuts with an economy that has been in a recession for nearly three years and elections coming up in October. The economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, is expected to announce more spending cuts over the weekend.
Both the weakening currency and higher interest rates spell trouble for Brazil. As the real falls in value, it makes Brazil's debt payments abroad increase. But as interest rates are pushed higher, economic growth slows and the cost of Brazil's domestic debt increases.
Mr. Daza of Deutsche Bank Securities said that Brazil's current account deficit is expected to rise to $27.5 billion this year, from $24.5 billion in 2000. But direct foreign investment, which totaled about $30 billion in 1999 and 2000, is projected to fall to about half that this year. This shortfall worries investors because it makes meeting debt payments riskier.
Merrill Lynch advised investors yesterday that they were reducing their exposure to Argentine debt to underweight and to Brazilian debt to neutral.
"After our trip to Buenos Aires," the report said, "our main impression is that the risks of a spiraling of the crisis in Argentina have increased."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "CURRENCIES" tracks Brazilian Real to the dollar, since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%) RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (51%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); ABO (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); ARGENTINA (96%); MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



158 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: News of New Military Work Is Welcomed in South Jersey 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: PEMBERTON, N.J., July 6 

 BODY:
Like other mayors, Thalia C. Kay worries about zoning and recycling and sprawl. But today she was also busy calculating the construction schedule for the C-17 Globemaster, the Air Force's newest transport.
 Pemberton and its neighbors, places like Wrightstown and New Hanover, are military towns where the local base dominates the economy and consciousness. And the news this week that the Air Force plans to spend $40 million at McGuire Air Force Base on new hangars for C-17's a year or two earlier than expected was not just of interest to local contractors who might get a piece of the project. It spoke to the health of the giant base that keeps towns around here alive. 
 "Without McGuire we would have tumbleweed rolling down Main Street," Mayor Kay said. "We would just wither on the vine and die."
The new construction at McGuire was announced on Thursday by Representative Jim Saxton. Additional word came from his office today that $12 million had been put in next year's defense budget to improve officers' barracks at Fort Dix, the Army base adjacent to McGuire. 
The back-to-back announcements reminded people around here that New Jersey is a center for military installations, and that South Jersey is particularly tuned in to the rhythm of base-funding politics in Washington. The announcements came at a time when the secretary of defense, Donald H. Rumsfeld, has declared that the military has more bases than it needs, and that he will send a new round of base-closing proposals to Congress by the end of the year.
McGuire fought one such round of cuts in 1993, when its air transport facilities were scheduled to be moved to Plattsburgh Air Force Base in upstate New York. 
"I had heard it was all done; they had even printed the new letterheads for Plattsburgh," Ms. Kay said. "It would have had a horrific impact on us." Instead, Plattsburgh was closed, and McGuire became busier than ever.
Much of the new money will be spent on local contractors, adding to the $558 million a year that Air Force accountants believe is already being pumped into the local economy each year by McGuire alone.
"The military traditions here make South Jersey almost a different world from the north," said Jeff Sagnip Hollendonner, a spokesman for Mr. Saxton. "New Jersey has the biggest military facilities in the mid-Atlantic and the Northeast region."
About 15,000 people work at McGuire, said Lt. Olivia Duer, spokeswoman for the base. With about 3,000 people at Fort Dix and another 3,000 at the Lakehurst Naval Air Engineering Station, Mr. Hollendonner said, the military is by far the largest employer in South Jersey after Atlantic City, which has 55,000 casino and hotel workers.
The C-17 Globemasters will replace the Air Force's veteran C-141 Starlifters as the workhorses for McGuire's mission to provide a jumping-off place for materiel and personnel headed overseas. The base was a hive of activity during the Persian Gulf war, and it has become the springboard for rescue flights to earthquake victims in South America and flood victims in Haiti.
"When the world dials 911, McGuire answers," Mayor Kay said.
In all, 13 Globemasters are to be assigned to McGuire, with the last scheduled to arrive in 2004. A 14th will be sent to Oklahoma to be used in training, and will arrive at McGuire sometime later, Mr. Hollendonner said.

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey highlighting McGuire Air Force Base: McGuire Air Force Base escaped a round of base closings in the 90's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (95%); AIR FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (91%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); ZONING (89%); ARMIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NAVIES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CASINOS (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); HOTEL STAFF (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE (NJ); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%)

PERSON: JIM SAXTON (52%) PETERSON, IVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) PEMBERTON (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



159 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: BROAD JOB LOSSES LAST MONTH SHOW SLUMP IS LINGERING 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The nation's employers cut 114,000 jobs in June, mostly in manufacturing but in other sectors as well, the Labor Department said yesterday, throwing cold water on recent reports suggesting that the economy was beginning to recover.
 Beyond manufacturing, the weak economy finally took its toll on the dynamic service sector, the great source of new jobs in the 1990's. Employment in the sector fell in June and for the second quarter as a whole -- the first quarterly decline since 1958. The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.5 percent in June from 4.4 percent in May, but would have been even higher if so many people had not left the labor force in the spring, declining even to look for work. 
 "You cannot spin this report to make it sound positive; there is nothing positive about it," said William Dudley, director of domestic economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "You have to look at other information to be optimistic. This report is very weak." 
Stock prices plunged in response to the employment numbers and to new reports of weak corporate profits. The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 2.17 percent and Nasdaq by 3.65 percent. Page B1. 
Still, for all the gloom in the June employment report, which is the first broad assessment of the national economy last month, some forecasters insisted on optimism. They focused their attention not on the job numbers, but on hints that the yearlong slowdown may finally be ending. Auto sales, consumer spending in general, home construction, a slight pickup in factory orders, falling energy prices -- all suggest to them that the economy is beginning to rebound, and by late summer or early fall job loss will turn to job creation.
"The darkest hour is just before the dawn," said Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis, "and we are hoping that we are at the darkest hour. There are reasons to expect a rebound."
Like many economists, Mr. Varvares is counting on stimulus from the Federal Reserve's six interest rate cuts this year and from the Bush administration's tax cuts, which authorize the mailing of millions of rebate checks this summer and fall. Sounding a hopeful note, Labor Secretary Elaine Chao declared in a statement that "the stable economy is poised to take off" once the checks begin to go out and, presumably, are spent.
Whatever happens next, the present is bleak for the nation's workers.
But there were a few gains in June. Retailers, for example, added 18,000 jobs. Construction jobs have been rising at a fairly healthy average of more than 15,000 a month this year -- despite a slight drop in June -- reflecting the strength in home building. While the federal government cut 6,000 jobs in June, once again shrinking its employment, local and state governments once again added jobs -- a total of 30,000, mainly in education.
For the private sector alone, excluding government, the job loss in the second quarter was greater than in any single quarter since the last recession, in 1990-91.
Manufacturers, deep in recession, eliminated 113,000 jobs last month. Over the last year, more than 4 percent of the nation's manufacturing jobs have disappeared, reducing the total to 17.8 million. The June losses came mostly among makers of computers, semiconductors and machinery. But they were not alone. "In manufacturing, there were losses all over the place," said Thomas Nardone, chief of the division that compiles the monthly employment numbers at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The manufacturing hardship spread last month to wholesalers, who store and resell manufactured goods, and to the transportation sector, which includes the truck drivers who distribute merchandise. The two sectors lost 27,000 jobs. "These had been growing industries," Mr. Nardone said, "and now you not only have the losses, but you are not getting the growth they had contributed to the economy."
The vast service sector is also making this shift. These are the 41.05 million people, out of a work force of 132.38 million in June, who work at hotels, are employed by temporary help agencies, barber shops, beauty salons and cleaning establishments, who repair and service cars, work at hospitals and doctors' offices, day care centers and old age homes, and provide all sorts of other business services.
Their numbers had grown quarter after quarter and year after year since the second quarter of 1958, and then in the second quarter of this year, there was the first slight drop -- 21,000 jobs, including 6,000 in June -- after so many years of growth. These service workers accounted for most of the work force expansion through the boom years of the late 1990's. While the loss came mostly among temporary workers, whose numbers have been shrinking for months, there was no longer enough growth elsewhere to offset this loss.
The cutback in temporary workers has occurred mostly among those sent to factory jobs, said Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive of Manpower Inc., "but the proportion losing jobs in call centers, banks and brokerage firms is rising." 
The shrinking job numbers, all seasonally adjusted, show up clearly in the monthly averages. In the first nine months of last year, employment in the private sector grew at an average of 167,000 jobs a month and then at a rate of 80,000 a month for the next six months, through March. Job growth then turned to job loss. Over the last three months, jobs disappeared at a rate of 117,000 a month on average.
Such rapid declines should be pushing the unemployment rate to nearly 5 percent, some economists say -- and there were sharp increases in black and Hispanic unemployment. What prevents the overall number from rising more is the steady exodus from the labor force, which has declined to 141.4 million people working or seeking work in June from 142 million in January. Those leaving are mostly men and women who either left or lost jobs and decided against hunting for new work. Only those who actively seek work are counted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as unemployed. 
"This odd contraction of the labor force has kept the unemployment rate flat at around 4.5 percent for the last three months," said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "It understates true unemployment."
Average hourly earnings for production workers, totaling more than 75 million people, rose a mild 4 cents in June, to $14.29. The average had risen by the same amount in May and also in April, suggesting that employers are under no pressure from rising wages to raise prices. While employment fell in the second quarter, so did an index of hours worked for those with jobs, after two months of remaining flat.
The combination of a shrinking labor force in the second quarter and fewer hours suggested to some economists that economic growth may be close to zero in the just-ended quarter. 
"What is happening is this," Mr. Dudley of Goldman said. "The profit squeeze is intense and business is reacting by trying to shed workers to control cost. And now the question is what is the consequences for consumer confidence and spending. So far they are holding up well, but we are not out of the woods."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in June"UNEMPLOYMENTCivilian unemployment: 4.5 percent DEMOGRAPHICSWhite: 4.0Black: 8.4Hispanic*: 6.6Men 20 and over: 4.0Women 20 and over: 3.8Teenagers (16-19): 14.3 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 6.4Lost job: 3.3Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 1.9New to labor market: 0.5 EMPLOYMENTHousehold survey: 134.9 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 132.4 million TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmMay: 132.5June: 132.4 GoodsMay: 25.3June: 25.2 ServicesMay: 107.2June: 107.2 Agriculture:May: 3.2June: 3.0 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent) Work forceMay: 63.9June: 63.7 Labor force: (workers and unemployed)May: 66.8June: 66.8 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); RETAILERS (64%); SALES REBATES (58%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SERVICE INDUSTRIES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (58%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



160 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Among Nuptial Agreements, Post- Has Now Joined Pre- 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Not so long ago, prenuptial agreements raised eyebrows. What hope was there for a marriage, the thinking went, if even before the wedding the couple were specifying who gets what in case of divorce? 
 But these days what raises eyebrows, and a host of new practical and legal uncertainties, is the postnuptial agreement. 
 Increasingly, couples already married are asking their lawyers to draft agreements dividing their property, and setting forth their obligations to each other in case of divorce. 
Most commonly, the desire for a postnuptial agreement arises when one spouse comes into an inheritance or starts a business, or when there are children from a previous marriage to provide for. 
"It can be hard to tell whether postnups are a step toward divorce or not," said Carol Sanger, who teaches family law at Columbia Law School. "In some cases, it may be 'We'll get a postnup and live happily ever after.' But I think it's often 'Let's get a postnup, wink, wink, so I can get everything locked down.'
"Legally it's a little like a prenup, but the stakes are higher, since the parties are already married. And it's a little like a divorce settlement agreement, but that's more clearly adversarial. It's really an uncharted area, and all the states are trying to figure it out now." 
For centuries, husbands and wives could not enter into contracts with each other, because they were seen as one legal unit. Indeed, in many common-law nations, like Britain, Canada and Australia, intramarital contracts are still not allowed, said Thomas Oldham of the University of Houston Law School. But in the United States, with its high divorce rate, that doctrine fell by the wayside long ago.
It is impossible to know how many couples are signing postnuptial agreements, since they are drafted by private lawyers and usually not reviewed by the courts unless they are challenged. But lawyers who specialize in family and matrimonial law say the demand has been growing. And in most states, the general trend is toward recognizing and enforcing postnuptial agreements, as long as they are fair and were made voluntarily and after full disclosure of all assets. 
But ensuring fairness can be difficult. While it is possible that a postnup will equalize a marriage, that is not usually how it works out, Mr. Oldham said. 
"If you look at the agreements, they're almost always to increase the rights of the wealthier partner and decrease the rights of the less wealthy one," he said. "The equalization idea is largely a feminist fantasy. Often these agreements have some element of duress. If the marriage is in trouble, if one partner is threatening divorce, is that a fair agreement? Or if a couple is reconciling after some problems, and one partner is crazy and generous and says, 'To show how much I love you, I'll give you everything if we divorce,' should that be binding?" 
A case decided by a New Jersey appeals court in 1999 demonstrates that what may seem fair at the time an agreement is drafted may no longer seem so years later, when the agreement is to be enforced.
Antonio Pacelli married in 1975, when he was a 44-year-old builder. His bride, Francesca, was 20 and had come to the United States from Italy when she was 14. In 1985, the opinion said, Mr. Pacelli told his wife that he would divorce her unless she signed a postnuptial agreement giving her $500,000 and half their vacation home in the event of a future divorce. At the same time, he moved out of the house they shared with their two sons and into an apartment above their garage. 
Mrs. Pacelli was determined to preserve the marriage and, against her lawyer's advice, signed the document. But in 1994, by which time Mr. Pacelli's net worth had grown to more than $11 million, he filed for divorce. Mrs. Pacelli then contested the agreement. 
The trial court said the agreement was enforceable, but on appeal the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey disagreed. To be valid, the court said, postnuptial agreements must be fair not only when they are signed but also when they are put into effect, and under this agreement Mrs. Pacelli would have gotten a far smaller share of the family assets than a divorce court judgment would have provided. 
"The close scrutiny and careful evaluation of midmarriage agreements also requires consideration of the agreement's impact when enforced," the decision said. "It may be inequitable to preclude her participation in postagreement wealth."
Some legal experts say the increasing popularity of postnuptial agreements springs from the growing likelihood that both spouses will have financial lives.
"It's part of the whole change of women being on a more equal economic plane than we used to be within marriage," said Battle Robinson, a former family court judge in Delaware. "Many husbands and wives are running their own businesses and managing their finances." 
And while many people find it distasteful even to consider drafting a formal contract with a spouse, others believe that postnuptial agreements can help to clarify issues in a marriage. At least that is the case made by equalityinmarriage.com, a nonprofit organization that offers advice on marriage-related issues. 
"If you didn't prepare a marriage contract before you wed, you can do it after you are married, perhaps in connection with a reaffirmation of vows ceremony," the organization's Web site says. "As with a prenuptial contract, one written now will help the two of you clarify how you feel about equality in marriage and enrich your communication." 
Lawyers also say a postnup -- sometimes known as a midnuptial or a midmarriage agreement -- can simply be a matter of sensible financial planning, not a signal of marital problems. 
"I had a call about getting a postnup recently, from a lawyer who has been sued for malpractice and knows that in Texas his wife's business can be subject to a judgment against him," said Mr. Oldham, the family-law specialist at the University of Houston. "He's interested in a postnup to protect his wife's assets, not because the marriage is in trouble. A lot of the time, the idea of a postnup comes up when someone comes into some money and thinks, 'I guess I'm rich, so what am I going to do in these circumstances?' "
There is ample opportunity for other uses. At least in theory, postnuptial agreements can provide a mechanism for couples to formalize not only their financial arrangements but also their division of household-chore responsibilities like cooking or paying the bills. Barbara Ellen Handschu, a family lawyer in Buffalo, described a couple who put together an agreement setting forth how much vacation they would take each year. 
When prenups were introduced in the 1970's, they were initially met with skepticism, followed by gradual acceptance. Postnups seem to be following a similar course, and a few states have already said explicitly that they should be evaluated for fairness under the same standards as prenups. But in most states, there is still little law on midmarriage agreements. 
Most family lawyers say postnups are a useful tool to keep up with the complications of tracking marital property in an era of high divorce rates. 
"In the last one I wrote, it was a remarriage for both, each owned a house, and they wanted to be clear about how money would be allocated to their first families," Ms. Handschu said. "When you take property like a house from a first marriage, where there's been appreciation, and the money from it might flow through a joint bank account and be legally commingled, it can be complicated to figure out who owns what. I think it's important, and useful, for people to sit down and talk about the realities of death and dissolution and their earlier obligations, and write down how they want to handle their property." 
Still, she said, not all postnuptial agreements are fair. 
"Right now," she said, "I'm representing a man who was hoping his wife would forgive him for his transgressions, and she said she would only work on the marriage if he'd sign this onerous financial agreement. He signed it, without a lawyer.
"But eight months later he realized she never wanted to work on the marriage, and he can't afford to live under the agreement. So I'm challenging it for him." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); FAMILY LAW (91%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FAMILY (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%) DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; MARRIAGES 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



161 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: New York Ranks City's Private Foster Home Programs 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
City child welfare officials said yesterday that they had completed an unsparing performance evaluation of all private foster home programs and vowed to send fewer children to the worst performing ones.
 The officials said their pledge to shrink the number of children placed with the most problematic of the 40 agencies could effectively force some out of the business of providing foster homes. 
 The evaluations, which included measuring how quickly children were adopted or reunited with their families, examined the work of agencies from small church-based programs to the oldest and most well-endowed in the city.
"This may be one of the most important things that we've done, to develop this system to hold the agencies accountable," said Nicholas Scoppetta, commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services. 
Some of the results surprised him. For instance, the Children's Aid Society, one of the founding institutions of foster care in the country and the place where Mr. Scoppetta served for years as president and a board member, was among the 10 lowest-rated. He also said there was no discernible correlation between size, financing and performance.
The lowest-scoring of the group, Miracle Makers, has had one of the largest and most rapidly growing programs since it was established in 1986 by a state grant aimed at creating minority-run agencies in neighborhoods with the greatest need. 
Mr. Scoppetta stopped short of ending the city's contracts with any of the agencies, which provide foster homes for more 23,000 children in the city's care. Instead, the poorest-performing have until December to show marked improvement, he said.
The city has not completed the evaluation of its own foster home program, he said, but he acknowledged that it does not perform well. A separate evaluation of group care by the agencies is under way. 
The evaluation methodology, years in the making, is a crucial ingredient in Mr. Scoppetta's ambitious plan to reconfigure all foster care services along neighborhood lines, and to extend his overhaul of the child welfare bureaucracy to the system's children and families. It involved the random sampling of case records, interviews with foster parents and computerized comparisons of outcomes like a child's re-entry into foster care.
In recent years, the city has had little control over how many children went to each agency, and its evaluations have largely been limited to a few elements. The last comparable effort to measure foster care agency performance peaked in 1984, when the city's foster care population declined to 16,230. But accountability measures were watered down, then abandoned, under the pressures of city politics, economic downturns, and the ballooning of the foster care population, to a peak of 49,100 in 1991.
Now, with the foster care population down to about 31,000 and still shrinking, Mr. Scoppetta said, agencies have accepted the idea that the worst performers will lose slots for children. 
"This system is measuring the performance of each of these agencies against systemwide performance -- against the performance of their colleagues," he said, "so for the most part they are all laboring under the same conditions, instead of against some hypothetical absolute."
Still, the details that make up each overall score reveal wide variations. Children's Village, a large agency based in Westchester County and known mainly for its institutional care, received the top grade of 88 for its small, recent foster home program for 100 children in the Bronx, but was not evaluated on adoptions or re-entry into foster care, the categories that were the undoing of several low ranked agencies.
The Council of Family and Child Caring Agencies, the umbrella group for most of the foster care agencies, said that it welcomed the evaluations, but that many of the agency shortcomings reflected inadequate state financing that had led to a 40 percent staff turnover rate. Mr. Scoppetta is lobbying the state for higher foster care rates, which can range from $16 a day per child for one agency to $30 a day for another under a complicated rate calculation.
But money does not account for performance, according to the evaluations. For example, Angel Guardian, a large Brooklyn agency with one of the lower daily rates -- $20.31 -- was one of the top performers, earning more than 87 out of a possible 100 points, compared with under 67 for Children's Aid, which receives a rate of $25.48. 
"We think our score should be higher than it is," said Jane Golden, director of programs for Children's Aid, which has a wide range of other highly regarded services for children not examined by the city. "But it's good that the city is doing this, and we're taking it very seriously."
Willie Wren, executive director of Miracle Makers, which also offers day care, housing and mental health programs, said he had confidence that Mr. Scoppetta would help the agency improve enough to keep providing foster care. Mr. Wren attributed the agency's problems to the 200 cases it inherited two years ago from an agency the city shut down, including foster homes not visited in five years and caseworkers who had sabotaged records in a labor dispute.
The lowest rated agencies face reductions of 10 percent to 30 percent of their current populations, cuts which Mr. Scoppetta said could come through attrition, as the city stops sending them new children, but which may require transferring some children, along with their foster parents, to the better agencies.
Mr. Scoppetta said he was urging many of the lower ranked agencies to develop or expand the other services that are necessary to keep children in their own homes safely, from literacy programs to homemaking services and "all of the things that help families stay together."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "REPORT CARD -- Foster Home Programs in the City"An evaluation by the city of its private foster home programs. The maximum possible score is 100. Chart lists homes and their respective scores (as well as foster homes currently closed).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); FOSTER CARE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); CITIES (79%); POLITICS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%) FOSTER CARE 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN'S SERVICES (NYC) 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; SCOPPETTA, NICHOLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



162 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Stocks Fall on Warnings by Key Technology Companies

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday as profit warnings from technology companies, accompanied by a weak employment report, undermined investors' confidence that the economy would be recovering by the end of the year. 
 "The bell went off for people today to realize that here we are; we're in the third quarter, and any good news from this part of the economy is not going to be forthcoming," said Jonathan K. Simon, a managing director of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management, referring to the technology sector. 
 The Nasdaq composite index declined 75.95 points, or 3.7 percent, to 2,004.16, as technology stocks lost what little ground they had gained last week, when the second quarter ended. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed the week with a loss of more than 7 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 227.18 points, or 2.2 percent, to close at 10,252.68, bringing its loss for the week to 2.4 percent. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 28.65 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,190.59, for a weekly loss of 2.8 percent. 
EMC and Advanced Micro Devices helped set the stage for yesterday's selling, with each company warning of weaker-than-expected earnings. "The surprise was that it came rather late in the earnings warning season," said Peter I. Cardillo, chief strategist for Westfalia Investments, though other analysts cited the magnitude of the earnings shortfalls.
Shares of EMC, which makes data storage equipment for corporate computer systems, fell $8.43, to $21.60, after it said late on Thursday that it expected earnings of 4 to 6 cents a share instead of the 17 cents a share that analysts had projected.
Many of EMC's rivals took steep losses, including Brocade Communications, which declined $8.88, to $31.89, and Emulex, which dropped $6.76, to $29.06. I.B.M., which also makes storage systems, plunged $5.60, to $106.50, weighing heavily on the Dow.
Advanced Micro Devices, meanwhile, decreased $7.84, to $20.80, after the semiconductor maker projected a 17 percent drop in sales and warned profits would miss Wall Street forecasts.
Its competitors fell, too. Applied Micro Circuits dropped $1.26, to $14.55, while Cypress Semiconductor decreased $1.50, to $21.78. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index dropped 53.19 points, or 8.6 percent, to 566.51. The losses spread across the technology sector, cutting Microsoft by $2.45, to $66.06, and Oracle by 72 cents, to $18.21.
If investors needed a reason to punish the old economy stocks as well, Alcoa provided it, taking charges for idling plants in the Northwest because of high power costs and reporting that earnings fell 16 percent. Without the charges, Alcoa's profits beat Wall Street's estimates, but the stock fell 98 cents, to $39.80.
The Labor Department reported yesterday that the unemployment rate rose to 4.5 percent in June from 4.4 percent in May.
"The crux of that is what it does to consumer expectations and consumer spending," said Clifford W. Henry, a partner in Worthington Growth L.P., a hedge fund manager. While sales of new homes and automobiles have been strong, people have been reluctant to buy luxury goods like new clothing, he said, and "the key to this market is going to be what happens in the back-to-school. The burden of proof is on the bulls right now."
Despite the six cuts the Federal Reserve has made to short-term interest rates this year, yields on longer-term Treasury securities remain relatively high. 
Treasury prices moved higher yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, to a price of 97 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.36 percent from 5.42 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed 11/32, to 94 31/32. The bond's yield declined to 5.73 percent from 5.76 percent on Thursday.
In the six months that have passed since the Federal Reserve began cutting short-term interest rates, the long-term interest rates that most consumers encounter in their mortgages and vehicle loans have not fallen much. And the Labor Department's report increased the chances of more short-term interest rate cuts, which in turn would raise the chances of higher inflation.
Bond investors, then, are left with conflicting worries. Inflation could erode their long-term yields, but if some part of the economy does not improve soon, a drop in the government's future tax receipts could cause the issuance of more bonds, diluting the market.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (84%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (66%); SEMICONDUCTORS (65%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (80%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (80%); AA (NYSE) (80%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (80%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



163 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Unemployment Up to 4.5% As 114,000 Jobs Are Cut
Employment fell in June and for the second quarter as a whole -- the first quarterly decline since 1958. The jobless rate ticked up to 4.5 percent from 4.4 percent in May, the Labor Department said, but would be even higher if so many people had not left the labor force in the spring, declining even to look for work.
 Employers cut 114,000 jobs in June, mostly in manufacturing, throwing cold water on recent reports suggesting that the economy was beginning to recover. Page A1. 

Mellon in Talks to Sell Retail Assets
Mellon Financial is in negotiations to sell its $14 billion in consumer banking deposits to the Citizens Financial Group, a subsidiary of the Royal Bank of Scotland, according to an executive close to the talks. Mellon could receive close to $3 billion from the sale. C2.

Coke May Still Face Bias Lawsuits
Despite reaching the largest settlement ever in a racial bias case, Coca-Cola will continue to face lawsuits from current and former black employees, a Florida law firm representing some of the workers said. C3.

Reliant Profits in California Surge
Reliant Energy, one of the electricity generators California officials have accused of overcharging, said its profits from the state rose more than fourfold last year but that it made less money per megawatt hour than some past periods. The disclosure, made in a filing with securities regulators, comes as Reliant and other generators attempt to fend off efforts by California to collect what officials say are $8.9 billion in overcharges. C2.

Swiss Group Expands to Europe
Martin Ebner, the financier whose stakes in Swiss companies have often led to corporate shake-ups, said that his company, BZ Group Holding, was reaching outside Switzerland to buy shares in European banks, including HypoVereinsbank of Germany. C2.

Calpine and PG&E Unit Reach Pact
Calpine said it reached an agreement with the Pacific Gas and Electric unit of PG&E to preserve power-supply contracts between the companies and resolve past-due bills. Under the agreement filed in bankruptcy court in San Francisco, Pacific Gas will pay the more than $267 million that it owes Calpine, the energy supplier based in San Jose, Calif. C3.

Marconi Chief Resigns Abruptly
Marconi, the biggest telephone equipment maker in Britain, ended a bruising week by announcing that John Mayo, who was scheduled to take over as chief executive next month, had resigned immediately. In a statement, Mr. Mayo gave no reason for his departure. He was to have succeeded George Simpson in a succession plan announced last year. Mr. Simpson and Marconi's chairman, Sir Roger Hurn, will remain in their posts. C2.

W.T.O. Rejects Europe's Challenge
The World Trade Organization in Geneva has rejected the European Union's challenge to an American law barring registration of confiscated trademarks. At issue was the 1998 American law intended to protect Bacardi's rights to the Havana Club rum label, which Bacardi had acquired from the owners who fled Cuba after the 1959 revolution. The law was challenged by Pernod-Ricard of France, which had started manufacturing Havana Club rum. C2.

Hitachi to Halt Production at Plant
Hitachi of Japan announced that it was halting production at a new plant that produces chips for cellular phones, the latest sign of the global squeeze in the semiconductor industry. C2.

Sony to Take Charge for Recall
Sony plans to take a charge of 12 billion yen, or $95 million, in its first quarter to pay for the recall of 1.1 million cellular phones. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,252.68 down 227.18Nasdaq composite -- 2,004.16 down 75.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.36% down 0.06The euro -- $0.8477 up 0.0122The dollar -- 125.85 yen up 0.08 Graph: shows unemployment rates (seasonally adjusted) from January 2000-June 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); LABOR FORCE (79%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); RETAIL BANKING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); LAWYERS (69%); SUCCESSION PLANS (68%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CALPINE CORP (83%); PG&E CORP (83%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (56%); CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (55%)

TICKER: CPN (NYSE) (83%); PCG (SWX) (83%); PCG (NYSE) (83%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); BK (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



164 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-5

Senate May Be Final Stop For Nuclear Test Ban Pact
President Bush, who has long opposed the still-unratified Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, has resolved to let it languish permanently in the Senate, administration officials said. Supporters of the treaty concede they do not have the votes to revive it. A1

The Pentagon will try to shoot down a mock warhead high over the Pacific next Saturday using a prototype interceptor, the first test since a failed missile defense test a year ago, officials said. A5

American in Japanese Custody
The United States handed over to Japanese authorities Senior Staff Sgt. Timothy Woodland, who is accused of raping a woman on June 29 in Okinawa. A3

Macedonia's Uneasy Truce
The new cease-fire between the Macedonian government and ethnic Albanian rebels may do little to overcome the chasm of anger and distrust between the two major ethnic groups in Macedonia: the majority Slavic Macedonians and the ethnic Albanians who make up one third of the population. A3

Mass Graves May Hold 800
Serbia's interior minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, said the police believed that 800 victims of the 1999 Kosovo conflict had been buried in mass graves and promised that the guilty would not elude responsibility. A3

Tree Crashes Into Crowd
A storm brought a tree crashing down onto spectators at a concert in Strasbourg, France, killing 10 and injuring 85, officials said. A5

World Briefing A5

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

Supranational Sensation
At a time when fields like English, history and philosophy need a major new theory, scholars are wondering if the latest contender for academia's next master theorist is Michael Hardt, a self-effacing, 41-year-old associate professor of literature at Duke University and the co-author of "Empire," a heady treatise on globalization and the creation of "supranational organisms" that is sending frissons of excitement through campuses from Sao Paolo to Tokyo. B7

NATIONAL A6-10, 14

Former F.B.I. Agent Pleads Guilty to Spying
Robert P. Hanssen admitted he had spied for Moscow since 1985 and had handed over many of the nation's most sensitive secrets. As part of the plea agreement, Mr. Hanssen, 57, will be sentenced to life without parole. The plea resolves a bizarre espionage case that shook the bureau and increased tensions between the United States and Russia. A1

Postnups Always Ring Twice
More and more married couples are asking their lawyers to draft postnuptial agreements that divide their property and set forth their obligations to each other in case of divorce. "Legally it's a little like a prenup, but the stakes are higher, since the parties are already married," a family law expert said of the postnups. "It's really an uncharted area, and all the states are trying to figure it out now." A1

Feather Collection Scrutinized
The United States Fish and Wildlife Service is investigating whether the private collection of Amazonian artifacts owned by Lawrence M. Small, the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, contains feathers and other items taken from endangered species, a service official said. A6

Robbers' Drug of Choice
There have been 14 robberies of pharmacies in Boston and its suburbs in the last six weeks in which the robbers have ignored cash registers and other drugs and taken only OxyContin, which gives a heroinlike high without the needles or the stigma. They are part of a surge in OxyContin robberies and thefts at drugstores across the nation. A6

Intern's Aunt Criticizes Condit
The aunt of Chandra Ann Levy, a federal intern last seen on April 30, said her niece had a romantic relationship with Representative Gary A. Condit, whom she criticized as hindering the search for Ms. Levy. A6

Beliefs A9

OBITUARIES A11

Stephen Ailes
A retired antitrust lawyer and government official who served as civilian head of the Army during the early buildup of American forces in South Vietnam, he was 89. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Two Vieques Protesters Sentenced to 30 Days in Jail
Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the environmental lawyer, and Dennis Rivera, the New York labor leader, were jailed for their roles in an April protest at the United States Navy test bombing range on Vieques. B1

Accusation of Intolerance
Bret D. Schundler, the Republican candidate for governor of New Jersey, accused James E. McGreevey, his Democratic rival, of being intolerant of Catholics and others who, like Mr. Schundler, oppose abortion even in cases of rape and incest. B1

EDUCATION

Princeton Names Provost
The university named Amy Gutmann, a professor of politics and former dean of its faculty, as provost, Princeton's second-ranking official. The appointment will make Princeton one of only two major research institutions in the United States with women in the top two posts. The other is Brown. B6

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Lyme Disease Study
A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine says that most people who believe they have chronic Lyme disease actually do not have the disease. And the antibiotics they are taking, the study says, are no more helpful than a placebo and carry substantial health risks. B1

Privacy Standards Recast
The Bush administration clarified new federal rules that protect the privacy of medical records, emphasizing a need for common sense. A9

Lopsided Logic
Scientists have found new evidence of a basic but subtle lopsidedness in nature that may explain why the universe contains mostly matter. A14

AIDS Threatens Cambodia
Just as Cambodia is emerging from three decades of war and mass killings, it finds itself at risk for a devastating spread of AIDS. It is now the sickest country in Asia. A1

Reprieve for African Eden
A German logging company said it had given up its lease on a pristine tract of swamp-fringed rain forest in the Congo Republic, a move that wildlife biologists say has spared an African Eden. A5

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Cold Shower for Economy
The nation's employers cut 114,000 jobs in June, mostly in manufacturing, the Labor Department said, throwing cold water on reports suggesting the economy was starting to recover. The unemployment rate was 4.5 percent. A1

Stocks fell sharply as profit warnings from technology companies, accompanied by the weak employment report, undermined investors' confidence that the economy would be recovering by the end of the year. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed the week with a loss of more than 7 percent. C1

Emerging Currencies Sag
Brazil's currency touched a record low. Some analysts said they did not expect the fall to stop until the country's central bank pushed interest rates higher. Currencies in other emerging market countries, including Mexico, also dropped. C1


Business Digest C1

SPORTS D1-8

Rafter Frustrates Agassi
Patrick Rafter, left, rallied in the fifth set to defeat Andre Agassi and advance to his second straight final at the Wimbledon tennis championships. A frustrated Agassi blasted a serve at a linesman he found inept, then cursed in front of a lineswoman, who reported him to the umpire. D1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Mr. Bush's fiscal gaffe; report card on the chancellor; counting the fetus as an unborn child.

Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B8
TV Listings B16
Crossword B15
Weather A14
Public Lives A6

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ESPIONAGE (88%); GENOCIDE (88%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); FAMILY LAW (70%); FAMILY (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); LITERATURE (64%); HISTORY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); MARRIAGE (63%); WRITERS (62%); SENTENCING (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%) ALSACE, FRANCE (54%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



165 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 469 words

PERSON: Stephen Ailes 

HEADLINE: Stephen Ailes Is Dead at 89; Former Secretary of Army 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and government official who served as civilian head of the Army during the early buildup of American forces in South Vietnam, died on June 30 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89.
 Mr. Ailes (pronounced ales) retired in 1985 from the large Washington law firm of Steptoe & Johnson, where he worked primarily as a litigator in the antitrust field. He joined the firm in 1946 but took occasional leaves of absence for government service. 
 He did so first in 1947 for a brief stint as counsel to the American Economic Mission to Greece. The next leave, as a member of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, lasted nearly five years.
In 1961, President John F. Kennedy named him the under secretary of the Army. President Lyndon B. Johnson promoted him to secretary in 1964 when the administration began to commit combat troops to Southeast Asia. 
Mr. Ailes resigned the next year to return to practicing law. His son Richard said that it was not a protest on his father's part but that a few years later "he had real concerns about the Vietnam conflict."
Mr. Ailes took another leave in 1972 to serve as president of the Association of American Railroads; he served until 1977. He was also a member of the Panama Canal Company's board from 1961 to 1971.
In the Ford administration, Mr. Ailes joined the president's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and the Intelligence Oversight Board. He was an author of the charter for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and, in the 1970's, served as a trustee of the Washington educational outlets WETA-TV and WETA-FM.
He was a past chairman of the George C. Marshall Foundation and vice chairman of the Athletic Council of the United States. He was a trustee emeritus of Princeton University.
For many years, he sat on the board of the Accokeek Foundation, which was formed in 1957 to preserve the land across the Potomac River from George Washington's home, Mount Vernon. The foundation operates the National Colonial Farm in Accokeek, Md. Mr. Ailes played a pivotal role in establishing the site as an "ecosystem farm," land cultivated without chemicals, as it was in colonial times. He helped in the foundation's strategic planning and financial affairs.
Stephen Ailes was born in Romney, W.Va., and graduated from Princeton in 1933 and from the West Virginia University College of Law in 1936. He taught at the college, but at the outset of World War II he moved to Washington and worked on the legal staff of the Office of Price Administration.
In addition to his son Richard, of Bethesda, Mr. Ailes is survived by a daughter, Hester A. Abbuhl of McCormick, S.C.; two other sons, Stephen, of Martinsburg, W.Va., and Walter, of Bethesda; a sister, Edna J. Sprague of Albuquerque; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Saturday about Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and former secretary of the Army, misstated the name of an organization of which he was vice chairman. It is the Atlantic Council of the United States, not Athletic Council.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Ailes (Drennan, 1965) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (66%); ESPIONAGE (64%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (64%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN RAILROADS (55%); PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); ROGER AILES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PANAMA (79%); ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Military 

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



166 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

PERSON: Alex Padilla 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Quick Climb Up the Los Angeles Political Ladder

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
ALEX PADILLA grew up poor in Pacoima, which was pretty much the norm in that distressed section of the San Fernando Valley.
 But the young man, who can still vividly recount late-night excursions with his father to scavenge for recyclables, broke early on with what might be considered normal in that community. He went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, returned home to work as an engineer for Hughes Aircraft, got interested in politics, ran a few successful campaigns for Democratic friends and then stepped into the political arena himself. 
 Two years ago, he was elected to the Los Angeles City Council and on Tuesday, at the age of 28, he defeated the veteran Council member Ruth Galanter to become the youngest president of the City Council and the first Hispanic in more than 100 years to hold the post. 
Mr. Padilla takes over as a whirlwind of change sweeps City Hall. In June, James K. Hahn, the city attorney, was elected mayor to replace Richard J. Riordan, who reached his two-term limit. There is a new city charter, several new city officials and the 1993 limit of two terms for elected officials that is just beginning to be felt.
"My vision is to couple all the positive energy we feel with the change," Mr. Padilla said, sitting in his office on the fourth floor of City Hall.
The son of a short-order cook and a house cleaner who immigrated from Mexico 33 years ago, Mr. Padilla played Little League baseball to stay out of trouble as a boy and got an early acquaintance with volunteer work thanks to his mother.
"Saturday mornings when most kids were asleep or watching cartoons, I'd wake up to a voice saying, 'Sure, come pick him up,' " he said.
He was recruited to M.I.T., where he received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering. But he never really left Pacoima behind. After finishing college, Mr. Padilla, who is single, returned, living with his family until buying a house two blocks away from his parents six months ago.
His older sister lives within two miles; his younger brother has a year left at California State University at Hayward, south of Oakland.
After returning to Pacoima, one of the most distressed sections of Los Angeles, Mr. Padilla went to work as a software programmer at Hughes. His entree into politics came when he was 22 and ran a successful State Assembly campaign for Tony Cardenas. Mr. Padilla then managed the State Senate campaign of Richard Alarcon, who won by a mere 29 votes. But as he was managing those campaigns, he was also laying the groundwork to become a politician himself, attending three leadership programs, one of which led to a job in the Los Angeles field office of Senator Dianne Feinstein.
Mr. Padilla, supported by Mayor Riordan, won his first election in June 1999, running in the special election to fill the vacancy created when Mr. Alarcon moved to the State Senate. He was re-elected to a full term this year and, despite his Hispanic roots, he supported Mr. Hahn rather than the mayoral hopeful Antonio Villaraigosa, a popular Latino candidate.
Mr. Padilla said he decided to run for the City Council position, which was created by the death of John Ferraro, who was Council president for 18 years, because he believed he could serve as a bridge between old and new Council members and bring a fresh vision to the job. "I had been able to work with members of the Council that have been here 20 or 30 years," Mr. Padilla said. "To be the one point of continuity and provide stability through this transition is something I see as an enormous responsibility and possibility."
Ms. Galanter, who has served 14 years on the Council and was the acting president after Mr. Ferraro's death, promoted her candidacy based on her experience and knowledge of City Hall.
Mr. Padilla said he would work to make the Council less fractious and contentious. Rather than having "15 fiefdoms where each Council member only takes care of their district," he said he would encourage members to work for the interests of the entire city.
In winning the seat, he received the support of five of the six new Council members and four veterans.
"He's got a maturity that defies his age," said Councilwoman Cindy Miscikowski, who considered a run at the Council presidency but supported Mr. Padilla when she was unable to secure the eight votes necessary to win. "There's sort of a grace, dignity and elegance about him that is something you'd expect from someone who has diplomatic experience."
BUT Ms. Miscikowski said she was most impressed by what he had been able to accomplish for his district since taking office.
In two years, he has made strides ranging from cosmetic to economic. Some of the improvements involve simply filling potholes and planting trees, but others include helping make his district home to a new children's museum, a $10 million sports academy for low-income children, a new library and new industrial development.
"I've been in my house 49 years," said Isaac Arias, 77, of Pacoima. "Until now nothing ever changed. He's the only person who knows the problems we have right here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALEX PADILLA (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); TERM LIMITS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (71%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); YOUTH SPORTS (69%); BASEBALL (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%)

TONY CARDENAS (78%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2001 



167 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Lord of the Fliers 

BYLINE:  By Christopher Buckley; Christopher Buckley is the editor of Forbes FYI and the author of eight books. His new novel, "Trial of the Millennium," will be published next year.

 BODY:
 UP IN THE AIR
By Walter Kirn.
303 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $23.95.
 IF Walter Kirn is anything like the protagonist of his new novel, he may be the first author thrilled to be embarking on a 30-city book tour. Not for the attention -- for the miles. Quest novels usually have as their object a chalice once used at a famous supper, a sleeping fairy princess, a rusty key to a chest, a New World, a ring, the perfect martini, whatever. "Up in the Air" is the first -- and will surely remain the best -- novel about one man's quest to accumulate one million frequent flier miles. If this sounds like the dullest quest in Christendom, set your worries at ease, sit back in your seat, rip open the little bag of pretzels and relax. You are about to embark on a truly wild ride.
Your seatmate, as you crisscross Western America, will be Ryan Bingham, 35, a career transition counselor at a Denver-based management consulting company. That is to say, he flies around the country firing people. Find a niche and empty it, you might say. He's a tragicomic fusion out of Martin Amis, Nicholson Baker and Jay McInerney on a good day. But that's no way to put it. Walter Kirn, not those others, came up with Ryan Bingham and he can take a deep bow. For all his problems, and does he ever have those, Ryan is as original and cool a character to come along in American fiction in a while. Into the bargain, Kirn is such a sharp writer he gives your brain paper cuts. Never have I so happily bled to death.
The plot: Ryan is trying desperately to get to one million before he leaves or is fired from his employer -- Integrated Strategic Management, or ISM. He is divorced, which seems to be the norm these days for your basic alienated protagonist. His younger, psychologically disturbed sister is about to embark on yet another disastrous relationship. Ryan is angling to be hired by MythTech, a shadowy company in Omaha that turns out -- no, I cannot give it away. (Kirn does provide a corker ending.) Ryan takes a lot of pills and connects with women and has boogie nights with them in Las Vegas -- very boogie nights. Meanwhile, sitting in the back row of the airport chapel in Reno, he is convinced that someone is having him paged. Worse, someone may be furtively cashing in his precious miles. This prospect chills Ryan more than liquid nitrogen. It is tantamount to stealing his soul.
Ryan is one of those business guys you see at O'Hare or LAX, speaking into detached cell phone mikes as they pass by you on the moving sidewalk like figures on wheels to their connection at Gate 84. The world they (and we) inhabit is an American geography reconfigured into a series of -- fittingly enough, as the great vast West was colonized by rolling wagons on spoked wheels -- airline hubs. Finally, someone has come up with a name for it. "I call it Airworld; the scene, the place, the style," Ryan says. "My hometown papers are USA Today and The Wall Street Journal. The big-screen Panasonics in the club rooms broadcast all the news I need, with an emphasis on the markets and the weather. My literature -- yours, too, I see -- is the best seller or the near-best seller, heavy on themes of espionage, high finance and the goodness of common people in small towns. In Airworld, I've found, the passions and enthusiasms of the outlying society are concentrated and whisked to a stiff froth. When a new celebrity is minted in the movie theaters or ballparks, this is where the story breaks -- on the vast magazine racks that form a sort of trading floor for public reputations and pretty faces. I find it possible here, as nowhere else, to think of myself as part of the collective that prices the long bond and governs necktie widths. Airworld is a nation within a nation, with its own language, architecture, mood and even its own currency -- the token economy of airline bonus miles that I've come to value more than dollars. Inflation doesn't degrade them. They're not taxed. They're private property in its purest form." 
It's a place we're familiar with, even if we didn't know what it was called until now, where e-mail and voice mail are the communication norm, of Palm Pilots and rental cars, salted almonds and nameless suite hotels -- you've got mail, J. Alfred Prufrock! -- white noise machines, Kevlar luggage, and where you spend so much time that you know the flight attendants by name.
No, it's all right. It's fine. "Planes and airports are where I feel at home. Everything fellows like you" -- remember that Ryan is sitting next to you -- dislike about them -- the dry recycled air alive with viruses; the salty food that seems drizzled with warm mineral oil; the aura-sapping artificial lighting -- has grown familiar to me over the years, familiar, sweet." 
That "you" is key, and I haven't heard the second-person singular used with such effective intimacy since "Bright Lights, Big City." Ryan's voice is also, one gradually begins to gather, the voice of a man who is, well, not well. That's not giving anything away. You would have figured it out soon enough. Suffice it to say this just provides another serrated edge to the story.
Among Ryan's endearing qualities is his philosophizing about everyday devices, marveling at contrivances that we take for granted and investing them with souls of their own. He rhapsodizes about the white-noise-making device he takes with him from hotel to hotel. "Lately, I can't sleep without these gadgets. The one I own now is tuned to 'summer cloudburst' and I can't wait to turn it on tonight." A cup of coffee and he's off and running: "The espresso machine whirrs and burbles at my touch, filling a cup exactly to the brim. The gizmo deserves to be thanked, it works so beautifully. People aren't grateful enough to such devices. Mute valets supply our every need, but instead of pausing in acknowledgment, we jump to the next thing, issue another order. I wonder if some imbalance is building up here, a karmic gap between humans and their tools. Machines will be able to think not long from now, and as the descendants of slaves, they won't be happy." 
He does wonder at some modern amenities: "The side-by-side urinals are filled with ice cubes, a touch I've never had properly explained to me." It's a tribute to Ryan's companionability that you find yourself wanting to explain it to him, if only you knew. To whom did it first occur that men like urinating into ice?
Kirn, who is the author of two previous novels ("She Needed Me," "Thumbsucker") and a collection of stories ("My Hard Bargain"), can get you into a Moment faster than a Zen master. Spotting a famous businessman a few rows away, Ryan muses: "Celebrities always seem slightly lost on planes. Five years ago, I found myself surrounded by a rock band I'd worshiped as a kid. Two of them sat alone in their own rows and two had girls with them. Their trademark hairstyles -- tortured, spiky crests of dull black thatch -- looked overdone in such a neutral setting. The drummer, an alleged hotel room smasher who'd supposedly had his blood replaced at an expensive clinic in Geneva, thumbed a hand-held video game. The singer, the star, sat still and stared ahead as though he'd lost power and was waiting for repairs. His fame seemed to call for a class beyond first, and I couldn't help but think less of him, somehow, for sharing a cabin with the likes of me."
That's an epiphany at 35,000 feet. Here's a vignette from ground level: "I was given a small beige office in the rear of the company's crumbling brick waterfront headquarters and tasked with the care of seven executives who were let go in sequence, one per day, and sent to me before their tears could dry. All were middle-aged men with families, and all but two of them asked me what they'd done wrong, to which I answered, 'Nothing. Blame interest rates. Blame low commodity prices. This problem's global.' One heavyset fellow, a face like a potpie, his suit full of strange custom seams to hide his girth, mistook me for a priest and made me kneel with him while he prayed from a card he carried inside his wallet. Another asked me if I would call his wife and repeat my interest rates remark." 
A novel about a man who lives in a parallel world making his living counseling the downsized could hardly arrive -- land -- at a more apt time, in this season of dot-coma and summer-air-travel hell. But this is a book that will endure beyond its era. Ryan Bingham is our Man in the Casual Friday Suit, and he is sitting next to us. In fact, he may be us.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Andy Rash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (95%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: BUCKLEY, CHRISTOPHER; KIRN, WALTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: UP IN THE AIR (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



168 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Who Is the Real Adam Smith? 

BYLINE:  By Paul Mattick; Paul Mattick, professor of philosophy at Adelphi University, is the author of "Social Knowledge" and editor of the International Journal of Political Economy.

 BODY:
 ECONOMIC SENTIMENTS
Adam Smith, Condorcet, and the Enlightenment.
By Emma Rothschild.
353 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $45.
 It's hardly an accident that a contemporary investment guru took Adam Smith as his nom de tube. More than just the father of economics, Smith is the totemic ancestor of the free market idea itself, the system that since the fall of Communism in the East and the triumph of fiscal conservatism in the West supposedly rules the world under the name of neoliberalism. And indeed, according to Emma Rothschild, the start of the 21st century shares with the late 18th, Smith's period, "the rhetoric of freedom of commerce" and "the sense of living in a society of universal commerce and universal uncertainty." But where today's economics exalts "cold and rational calculation," Smith -- as Rothschild argues in an attempt to recover his insights for the present day -- saw economics as "intertwined with the life of sentiment and imagination." Director of the Center for History and Economics at King's College, Cambridge, Rothschild wants to bring Smith back as an apostle not of heartless market forces but of capitalism with a human face, as it might have appeared at the dawn of modernity and as, she hints, it might appear again today.
In her readable as well as scholarly book, "Economic Sentiments," she links Smith with the French philosopher the Marquis de Condorcet, another thinker seen today as an emblem of "cold, hard and rational enlightenment" but in reality interested, like Smith, "in economic life as a process of discussion, and as a process of emancipation," in which "one's freedom to buy or sell or lend or travel or work is difficult to distinguish from the rest of one's freedom." This larger picture, Rothschild thinks, is what was lost as economics developed along with the society it analyzed, and what she hopes to restore.
The French Revolution, during which Condorcet died in prison despite -- or because of -- his devotion to democracy, marked a watershed in politico-economic thought: the political restoration of the monarchy in the early 1800's was accompanied by a recasting of laissez-faire economics as the coalition partner of political conservatism. The present moment, Rothschild suggests, is another watershed: the worldwide triumph of the perpetually destabilizing market principle has brought with it the end of conservative certainty, and the opportunity for a fresh look at the lessons of the Enlightenment.
Smith, as Rothschild reads him, did not see state and market as competing principles, as later free-market ideologues were to do, just as Condorcet was not actually the prophet of the authoritarian state he is often taken to have been. For these thinkers, "the 'state' and the 'market' were not . . . two imposing and competing dominions of society" but were "interdependent." Indeed, "The Wealth of Nations" calls for legal reforms, such as the repeal of statutes restricting workers' movement into trades and between localities (and keeping some wages above their so-called natural levels). Rothschild is misleading, however, in describing this as governmental activism. What Smith wants from the state, for the most part, is to get out of the way of the "natural system of liberty" in which each man looks after his interests on his own. Rothschild would like to combat the conventional view of Smith as a critic of state regulation of the economy. However, she obscures the radical significance of his writing for his own time as well as for later generations.
The extent to which Rothschild goes beyond correcting a one-sided image of Smith to distorting his views herself is most striking in the chapter she devotes to his idea of the "Invisible Hand." Smith, she claims, "did not especially esteem the invisible hand," taken as a promise "that society will in fact turn out to be prosperous, or orderly, in the absence of government direction." In her view, he invoked the phrase ironically, mocking theorists who believe in systems of unintended order. Rothschild's somewhat postmodern Smith thinks of market transactions as a mode of conversation in which individuals work out the moral and social significance of their actions with the self-awareness that, as a man of the Enlightenment, he saw as the birthright of everyone, not just philosophers.
But the enlightened thinker, after all, offers a different service for sale than the enlightened farmer or laborer, within the division of labor that Smith (and Condorcet) took as fundamental to modern society. Smith's basic idea is that "every individual can judge much better than any statesman or lawgiver can do for him" how best to employ his capital and energy; and further, "that the study of his own advantage naturally, or rather necessarily, leads him to prefer that employment which is most advantageous for the society." With respect to economic questions, the individual need only think about his immediate interests, preferably in as enlightened a manner as possible; while the theorist may understand how individual advantage serves the social interest, it's not his understanding but the market that works the magic. This is why Smith calls not for regulation of trade following his prescriptions but for the system of "natural liberty" allowing every one to act, as far as is practically possible, as he wishes. Despite the fact, often noted, that the phrase occurs only three times in Smith's writings, the idea of the invisible hand is as central to his argument as it is generally held to be.
Rothschild doesn't want to admit that the invocation of Smith as a theoretical mascot of laissez-faire registers an important historical truth: for all their insistence on natural equality and the virtues of individualism, neither Smith nor Condorcet could think beyond the limitations set to these principles by the social system that invented them. Just as a truly free market has never existed, so individual freedom has taken only those forms permitted by the laws of capitalist society. As Rothschild points out, "the system of economic freedom is founded on the equality of all individuals, and it is at the same time subversive of equality." But this means more than that; as she has it, we must be able "to live without certainty" in a society that continually creates new opportunities while casting old decisions into doubt. It means that understanding forms of equality and freedom tied to inequality, and to subjection to the forces of state and market, calls for deeper modes of thought than those we have inherited from the 18th century. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LITERATURE (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (89%) MATTICK, PAUL; ROTHSCHILD, EMMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SENTIMENTS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



169 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Where the West Begins 

BYLINE:  By Steven Merritt Miner; Steven Merritt Miner is a professor of history and chairman of the history department at Ohio University. His latest book, "Stalin's Holy War" will be published later this year.

 BODY:
 RUSSIA AND
THE RUSSIANS
A History.
By Geoffrey Hosking.
Illustrated. 718 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The Belknap Press/
Harvard University Press. $35.

EMPIRE
The Russian Empire and Its Rivals.
By Dominic Lieven.
Illustrated. 486 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press. $35.
 With the end of the cold war and the implosion of the Soviet empire, many Americans have taken to wallowing in complacency: history has rendered its timeless verdict on the virility of American society and its institutions. Free market democracy has vanquished totalitarianism and Communism; multiethnic federalism and decentralization have proven more adaptable than centralized empire. Contending visions lie in the dust; history is at an end.
As with most received wisdom, there is a great deal of truth in this view, but it is one of the many strengths of these two fine books about Russia that in providing a long and deep historical perspective, they serve to undermine any sense of complacency. As both books' authors show, in the mid-1800's Russia's rulers could look back on a century and a half of triumph in numerous wars, unparalleled geographic expansion, relative economic prosperity and, as contrasted with the French Revolution and the upheavals that stunned Europe in 1848, comparative political stability as well. Russians of that time could have been forgiven for believing Tocqueville's prediction that Russia and America would ultimately supplant the decrepit West European states. Who could have foreseen the century and a half of unimaginable violence and tumult that lay ahead? History holds many surprises. 
Geoffrey Hosking, a professor of Russian history at the University of London, gives us "Russia and the Russians: A History," an account of the full sweep of Russian history, which devotes roughly equal attention to four periods: the disputed origins of the Russian state in Kievan Rus and the subsequent era of Mongol domination (10th-15th centuries); the Muscovite era (15th through 17th centuries); the time of the czars (18th century to 1917); and the Soviet and post-Soviet period. This is a useful supplement to Hosking's more analytical "Russia: People and Empire," which appeared in 1997, and the new book is the most up-to-date, comprehensive one-volume history of Russia in print, drawing as it does on a wealth of scholarship to provide readers with a superb, well-organized chronological narrative. The footnotes alone give the reader an excellent guide to recent scholarship. 
More interpretive and thematic than Hosking's book, Dominic Lieven's "Empire: The Russian Empire and Its Rivals" is an ambitious study comparing the Russian empire with those of Britain, the Hapsburgs and the Ottomans. This is a much-needed volume, and it is a genuine pleasure to read. 
Too often, historians are inclined to view Russia as sui generis, appended to Europe but almost entirely different in its society and institutions. Russians themselves notoriously and endlessly debate whether Russia is truly a part of Europe, or whether it has its own unique spirit and mission. East-West confrontation during the cold war only heightened the sense of Russia as the alien "other." The view of Russia as the eternal outsider to Europe simultaneously overstates Russian difference and exaggerates European homogeneity. The Russian Empire was unique, to be sure, but then so were its rivals; at the same time, certain features often treated by historians as specifically Russian in fact had parallels in other imperial systems. 
As Lieven, a professor of Russian government at the London School of Economics, shows, the Russian Empire shared with the British both a self-proclaimed "civilizing mission" and a double standard of behavior in its imperial domains. In non-European regions, Russian rule, like British, was generally at its most brutal. Mass deportations and slaughters verging on genocide -- even though not routine, as they would become under Stalin -- punctuated Russian rule in Siberia, Central Asia and the Caucasus region. Alexander I's viceroy in the Caucasus, for instance, declared that "gentleness, in the eyes of Asiatics, is a sign of weakness, and out of pure humanity I am inexorably severe. One execution saves hundreds of Russians from destruction and thousands of Muslims from treason." Yet the same czar, when he looked west, chose to govern through constitutions in Russian Finland and Poland, constitutions that were immeasurably more liberal than anything the Russians themselves would enjoy for two centuries. 
Like the Hapsburgs' Austro-Hungarian Empire, czarist Russia was a contiguous, multinational land empire. It was precisely this contiguity that caused many outside observers to underestimate the imperial nature of Russia and to conflate the Russian nation with its empire. Both the Hapsburgs and the Russians acquired their first significant imperial domains in the mid-16th century. At that time, Muscovy defeated its Tatar neighbors to the east, the final, sclerotic remnants of the once great Mongol empire that had dominated Russia for 250 years. These victories enabled Muscovites to pour into Siberia and colonize it, feeding off its rich fur trade. For Russia, a second burst of imperial expansion followed the reign of the westernizing Czar Peter I, who ruled from 1682 to 1725 and was known as Peter the Great. In the succeeding years, Russia gained the Baltic provinces, Ukraine, Crimea, Finland and what is now Moldova. Most significantly, along with Prussia and Austria, Russia dismembered Poland. All together, these gains projected Russian power deep into Europe, giving the czarist state both the wherewithal and the geographic position to become a great power for the first time.
As Lieven and Hosking both deftly show, however, what had once conferred great strength would eventually become a liability for Austria and Russia. Whereas in the 18th century the acquisition of territory and non-Russian subjects simply meant more resources for the czars to exploit, a century later the rise of the nation-state, and with it notions of popular sovereignty, undermined the claims of monarchical legitimacy. Russia's borderlands, far from being an impenetrable defensive glacis, became instead a chink in the czars' armor -- a lesson Stalin would have done well to learn after the Soviet triumph in World War II. 
Following their victory over Napoleon in 1815, Russia and Austria had entered the 19th century as the dominant land powers; by century's end each had been weakened by the very forces that once made it great. Lieven is both honest and sympathetic in rendering his verdicts: neither the Russian nor the Austrian leaders found an answer to their nationalities question. Most probably, there was none to be found, short of dissolution. And, as events would show, disintegration of these empires only raised new, and even bloodier, problems. 
Lieven's comparison of the Russian and Ottoman empires is especially rich. Russia's western periphery -- namely Poland, the Baltic lands and Finland -- were wealthier and culturally more sophisticated than the imperial center. This certainly sets Russia's empire apart from the French and British variants, which are more familiar to Americans. Yet, like Russia's, many of the Ottoman dominions were more prosperous than the area that lay at the heart of the empire, the relatively impoverished Anatolian peninsula that would become modern Turkey. Faced with rivals whose economic might enabled them to field smaller, but more effective, armies and navies, both Russia and Ottoman Turkey were forced to devote far larger proportions of their revenue to defense than did the Western imperial powers, with disastrous consequences. Economic and even national development were throttled as a result, Lieven says, a verdict with which Hosking emphatically agrees. The establishment of secure property rights and the limitation of central government that characterized much of Europe, and that together helped to unleash the latent power that enabled the continent to dominate much of the world, were stunted both in Russia and in Turkey. In the famous phrase of the Russian historian Vassily Klyuchevsky, "the state swelled up, the people grew lean." 
The cost of empire could be ruinous indeed. In the 16th and 17th centuries, Russia's czars forced the peasantry into serfdom in order to pay the costs of empire and to compete with Western Europe's advancing military technology. The dark legacy of serfdom is reflected even today in the anemic state of Russian agriculture. As late as 1907, as an educated work force was becoming the key to economic and political power, the Russian government spent only 6.9 million rubles on higher education. (By comparison, a single battleship cost 30 million.) 
Stalin's collectivization of agriculture in the early 1930's (called the "second enserfment" by the peasants) imparted a characteristically savage imprint on this tradition. He explicitly sold his crash five-year plans as a quick fix for the Soviet Union's security problems; the cost came in ruined lives, deformed economic development, pervasive authoritarianism and ecological disaster. As Hosking writes, "The Communists had aimed to build an egalitarian system based on plenty; instead they created a hierarchical one based on scarcity." 
Tracing Russia's relative economic underdevelopment and its authoritarian social and political institutions to the cost of maintaining a huge military establishment is scarcely new. By comparing the Russian situation with those of other empires, however, Lieven is able to show with much greater force and nuance how certain social conditions often portrayed as peculiarly Russian in fact derived from the imperial drive to defend a sprawling, multinational empire against better-financed and more secure enemies. 
At the same time, the comparative approach facilitates judgments about where Russia truly was on its own. Its relationship with Western Europe was complex, and of course it would remain so through the Soviet period to the present day. Although with very few exceptions Russian elites have traditionally identified with European culture, Russia's attitude to Western Europe, and by extension to the United States, has been and remains ambivalent. Wanting to sit at the table of the great powers, Russia's leaders have always been at least partly uncertain of their right to be there, owing to the relative backwardness of their social system. Even the proudest and most assertive Russian and Soviet statesmen have shown, sometimes by the very assertiveness of their pride, that they long to be taken seriously by more established members of the club. 
For all the useful comparisons that can be made with other empires, the Russian system had its own characteristics. Unlike the British, Russian emigrants did not leave an island home to enter far-flung colonies. The demographic flood of Russians into the periphery, which reached its peak at the turn of the last century, has resulted in an unstable post-Soviet residue, where the line between the Russian heartland and the empire cannot be convincingly drawn. Twenty-five million Russians were suddenly stranded in the "near abroad" when the Soviet Union collapsed. Nothing on this scale happened at the close of the Ottoman or Hapsburg eras, much less as Britain withdrew from its empire. What will become of these people in the future will depend greatly on whether Russian leaders choose to exploit the issue. As Lieven shows, for all his failings as a leader, we should be thankful that Boris Yeltsin did not embark on that bloody road.+ 
Although the Russian and the Ottoman Empires shared many strategic problems, ultimately the Russians proved more adaptable. Under the Soviets, Russian power was reborn, even as the Ottoman empire was going the way of the Romans. Surely Lieven is right in arguing that this was because Russians could embrace the cause of modernity since, unlike the Muslim Ottomans, they did not have to shed their primary identity to do so. 
The legacy of great military power in current times is, however, far more dangerous than anything the Ottomans left behind. A largely disintegrated, yet still immense, empire in possession of modern nuclear weaponry has no parallel in history. Even now, under Vladimir Putin, Russia is clearly trying to reassert a great-power status to which Russians feel entitled by geography and history. Despite the post-Soviet squalor, it would be wrong to count Russia out. Both these excellent histories show how Russia has recovered from far worse to rise again. We may believe that the era of empires is over once and for all. But this may be only because we cannot envision the circumstances that would resurrect this ancient, endlessly adaptable human institution.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nikita S. Khrushchev and Vice President Richard Nixon debating their systems at the first American trade exhibition held in the Soviet Union, 1959. (Hulton Getty Picture Library/from "Russia and the Russians") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); COLD WAR (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (56%) HOSKING, GEOFFREY; LIEVEN, DOMINIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%)

TITLE: RUSSIA AND THE RUSSIANS: A HISTORY (BOOK); EMPIRE: THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE AND ITS RIVALS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



170 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Alaska Gets Tougher On Cruise Ship Pollution

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
ON a typical summer day in Alaska, the number of people aboard cruise ships along the Inside Passage, from Ketchikan in the south up to Juneau, reaches nearly 50,000 -- enough to constitute the third largest community in Alaska, behind only Anchorage and Fairbanks. 
 This burgeoning waterborne population, nearing one million a year, has in many ways been an economic boon for Alaska. But it's hardly an unalloyed blessing: many Alaskans say the giant ships have marred the scenery and, even worse, fouled the pristine waters of the Inside Passage. 
 Last month the State Legislature passed a bill that would expand the state's authority to inspect vessels and to fine companies that violate state pollution laws. Sponsors of the bill say it represents one of the most comprehensive testing and monitoring measures anywhere in the world of the $14-billion-a-year cruise industry. 
 "We have elevated our protection of the oceans to a new, higher level," Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat, said just after passage of the bill. "The message is loud and clear that Alaskans care deeply about their oceans, marine life and habitat." 
 After a voluntary testing program last year found that almost none of the waste-water samples from the ships met federal standards for fecal coliform bacteria and other pollutants, Mr. Knowles called the discharges a disgrace, and he and several lawmakers pressed for higher standards. 
 The cruise industry, having first taken no position on the legislation but perhaps sensing a potential public-relations disaster, ultimately worked with lawmakers on the new rules, which are more stringent than existing federal statutes governing discharges. 
 The industry did manage to dodge a contentious proposal when the legislature balked at levying a head tax on cruise passengers, which sponsors wanted to peg at as much as $50 a person, to cover some of the impact of the ships' visits to Alaskan ports. Similar proposals are likely to re-emerge next year; efforts to impose such taxes in individual ports have largely stalled because cruise companies could simply bypass those places; a statewide fee would apply to any passenger whose ship sails in Alaskan waters. 
 Randy Phillips, a Republican state senator who hopes to see the head-tax proposal reappear next year, said: "I don't want our communities to be stuck paying the bill for services that a million-plus people are enjoying in our state. This is a small price to pay for the services they get." 
 Under pressure from the San Francisco-based Bluewater Network and other environmental groups, the cruise industry says it is committed to higher environmental standards. Just recently, an industry trade association, the International Council of Cruise Lines, based in Arlington, Va., announced that its members must meet or exceed the recycling and waste-discharge guidelines established by the group or risk losing their membership. Royal Caribbean Cruises and Holland America, which both run Alaska cruises, have said they will comply with the new guidelines, as have the group's 14 other members. 
 "This industry is very interested in minimizing its environmental impact," the council's president, Michael Crye, said in a telephone interview. "What this pledge says is that we will embrace the best environmental practices that we can." New technology being installed on many ships, he added, uses filters and ultraviolet radiation to make the treated water "completely benign."
 The group, whose new standards took effect July 1, represent more than 90 percent of cruise ships visiting North American ports. Other members include Princess, Carnival, Celebrity, Disney, Norwegian, Princess, Radisson, Regal, Royal Olympic and Windstar. 
 But whatever promise the new technology holds, there have been several highly publicized illegal discharges of polluted water in Alaska in recent years. And of 80 water samples taken in the state from ship discharge tanks last year, just one met the federal standards for suspended solids and fecal coliform, which is a bacterium found in human waste. Some of the samples found bacteria levels thousands of times above the federal limits for treated sewage. The testing also found evidence of the silver used in shipboard photo processing, dry-cleaning chemicals, and oil and bilge residues. The chemicals can be toxic, and elevated fecal-coliform levels are a threat to human health and to marine life. 
 Moreover, just days after the State Legislature passed its new bill, Coast Guard inspectors said that Royal Caribbean's 915-foot Rhapsody of the Seas had illegally dumped waste water into Juneau's harbor, marking the third time a cruise ship had been cited for violations this season. (The others were Holland America's Westerdam and Norwegian Cruise Lines' Norwegian Sky.) 
 A spokesman for Royal Caribbean said that the discharge was accidental and was stopped as soon as crew members noticed the problem. "It violates the new discharge law, and nobody regrets that more than us," the cruise line said. "We have already taken steps that we feel are appropriate to prevent it from happening again." 
 An international marine-pollution convention 25 years ago set limits on dumping of garbage and oil, but, until the Alaska legislation, there have been few restrictions on the dumping of so-called gray water -- which contains discharge from galleys, laundries and showers -- in offshore areas. 
 Federal legislation passed last year and sponsored by Senator Frank Murkowski, a Republican of Alaska, set new limits on waste-water discharges in Alaska. The new state legislation, sponsors say, steps up both monitoring and enforcement of those standards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BACTERIA (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WATER POLLUTION; BACTERIA; TESTS AND TESTING; FECES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF CRUISE LINES 

TICKER: RCL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (50%)

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; KNOWLES, TONY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (92%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (91%) ALASKA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



171 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
Siemens Plans $120 Million Redevelopment in Iselin

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J. 

 BODY:
OVER the next five years, the Siemens Corporation, the American arm of Siemens A.G., the German conglomerate, plans to replace its 30-year-old 350,000-square-foot complex here with a newer and bigger version.
 The redevelopment, at a projected cost of more than $120 million, will be done in phases and result in more than 700,000 square feet in a trio of office buildings, each with 237,000 square feet of space on eight stories, garage parking for 1,725 cars and outdoor plazas. 
 They will take the place of two squat, time-worn office buildings and a warehouse that now sit on the 23-acre site on Wood Avenue South, near Exit 131 of the Garden State Parkway in Iselin, an unincorporated section of Woodbridge, a Middlesex County township. 
The site will be cleared of existing buildings in stages as the new structures are completed. Construction of the first building began last month and will take 18 months to finish, according to Gale & Wentworth of Florham Park, the developer and construction manager for the project. A 575-car parking deck will also be built as part of the initial phase. 
The reshaping of the Siemens Wood Avenue South complex is the first project in the metropolitan area to reflect the 154-year-old company's business plan to "Americanize" by increasing its operating efficiency, profits and name recognition in the United States.
Among the tenets of the plan, begun in March, is to consolidate its diverse businesses into "central hubs" so they can share services and expenses and lower costs, including for real estate.
"The redevelopment is a prototype for us, a test bed," said Robert Mawhirt, president and chief executive of Siemens Real Estate. "It will give us the opportunity to create a campus environment to help with the building of Siemens as an American company and to show value." 
Siemens, based in Munich, is in businesses ranging from mobile phones to medical equipment to light bulbs; its brands include Westinghouse and Osram Sylvania. But it is not as well known here as its main competitor, General Electric, and consumers tend to confuse it with Seaman's, the furniture company. 
What is also spurring Siemens to change is that in March it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. To draw American investors, the company realized it needed to pay more attention to profits, not just sales and employment, which has been its tradition. Last year Siemens lost $100 million in the United States although it had profits worldwide of several billion dollars.
MR. MAWHIRT said it was intended that the Iselin complex would eventually house the 6 subsidiaries now at the site and 8 to 10 other units within a 35-mile radius. The current businesses include Shared Medical Systems, Shared Business Services, Real Estate and some functions of the Siemens Corporation. The company declined to say how many total business units are in New Jersey, but did say they occupy 250,000 square feet in the state, most of it leased. 
The redevelopment of the Wood Avenue South site, which Siemens Real Estate owns, is designed to enable it and other operating companies to share the costs of carrying out common functions like payroll and buying common items like insurance. 
And in terms of real estate, "we must offer a better-than-market solution," Mr. Mawhirt said, noting that rents should be better than the companies now pay. He added that the new buildings would feature Siemens products, helping to lower costs. 
If all the space at the new complex is not taken by Siemens companies, the vacant space will be leased to outside concerns, he said.
The Iselin complex was selected as the maiden central hub site for several reasons, including that the company had been there a long time and the six businesses it houses have a total of 950 workers, out of an overall work force of 3,900 in the state. 
"We are looking to where there is a concentration of workers and businesses," Mr. Mawhirt said, noting that besides the New Jersey complex other consolidated sites are being considered in Orlando, Fla., and Atlanta.
Siemens, he added, also "is in the early stages of consolidating all its United States real estate into Siemens Real Estate." 
Another factor favoring this site is its location in the Metropark office submarket, which straddles parts of Edison and Woodbridge and is adjacent to the Metropark train station, which offers service on New Jersey Transit and Amtrak. It is also accessible to the Garden State Parkway, the New Jersey Turnpike and Interstate 287 and to a deep pool of skilled labor, said Robert Dinner, a principal at the Iselin office of Newmark JGT, a commercial brokerage.
The Metropark area, he said, is "a potpourri" made up of corporate owned and multitenanted buildings as well as regional headquarters, and it is attractive to diverse users.
AS of the first quarter, the 5.8-million-square-foot submarket had a vacancy rate of 9.6 percent for Class A space, which predominates, up from 1.5 percent at the end of last year. The rise was attributed primarily to a 110,000-square-foot block from the Prudential Insurance Company in Iselin put on the market for sublease, which is now half leased, said Stephen P. Jenco, research services manager based at the Fairfield office of Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage. 
Mr. Jenco said the sluggish economy, which is slowing the pace of leasing, is affecting Metropark and the overall 11-county northern and central New Jersey market. 
But, surprisingly, he said, rents are still increasing, though the rate of the rise is slowing. His firm put the asking rents for Class A space in Metropark in the first quarter of this year at $30.43 a square foot a year.
The bulge in the inventory doesn't worry Joseph J. Sarno, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, a national real estate services firm, who works in the firm's Iselin office. "Historically," he said, "anytime space becomes available in Metropark, it leases, and because of its ground-zero location it will be among the last markets to fall." 
Siemens is not alone in making the most of its site. Developers are advancing plans for three office buildings in Metropark, together totaling about 800,000 square feet, as well as parking decks on sites near Siemens. 
Eighteen months ago Siemens selected Gale & Wentworth, which manages the Iselin site, to help devise a redevelopment plan for it that would balance several goals, said Kris Bauman, vice president of development at Gale & Wentworth. Among them is "to create a quality environment for Siemens, maximize the site and provide a new set of buildings with minimum impact on existing tenants," he said, adding that the new buildings are also to be flexible enough to meet the space needs of companies outside the Siemens umbrella. 
Woodbridge's mayor, James E. McGreevey, called the project a "significant capital investment" that will enhance the community's tax base for the next decade. That is, he added, "provided the necessary infrastructure improvements are done on a timely basis to ensure the long-term success of Metropark." Mr. Bauman said Siemens had agreed to such improvements as installing a traffic light at the entrance to the site and widening Wood Avenue South for about one-quarter of a mile to its intersection with Thornall Street. 
Meanwhile, Mr. McGreevey said a new exit on the Garden State Parkway is planned as are $31 million in upgrades in the next decade to the train station.
Aware of the cooling economy, Mr. Bauman said the fact that Siemens is the lead occupant ensures the success of the project. Designed by the Hillier Group of Princeton, the new buildings will feature precast concrete panels with glass panels on the upper six stories, while the first two floors will be mainly glass. 
As now planned, Siemens units currently on the scene will fill two-thirds to three-fourths of the first new building, which will rise on the northern portion of the property, now occupied by parking lots. Barring an economic tailspin, the rest of project will proceed in phases, with completion scheduled for 2006. 
Asked why Siemens did not try to save any of the existing complex, Mr. Mawhirt said, "It would have been like trying to make an old sneaker into a work shoe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 23-acre Siemens site in Iselin is eventually expected to have three eight-story office buildings with parking garages and outdoor plazas. (Hillier Group) Map Iselin, New Jersey, highlighting Siemens complex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); SEMICONDUCTORS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (96%); SIEMENS CORP (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); SHARED MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SIEMENS CORP; SIEMENS AG 

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (96%); SIE (LSE) (96%); SIE (FRA) (96%); SIE (BIT) (96%); SI (NYSE) (96%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (96%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (50%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) ISELIN (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



172 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Greenport Gentrifies: A Waterfront Facelift 

BYLINE:  By LORRAINE KREAHLING 

DATELINE: GREENPORT 

 BODY:
WITH a ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by Governor Pataki, Mitchell Park opened in the heart of downtown Greenport on June 29, capping a six-year effort spearheaded by Mayor David E. Kapell.
 The transformation, including an open-air performance space, a promenade and an antique carousel, has been a long time coming for Greenporters, who have had a vacant and weed-covered blemish on their picturesque waterfront since a fire destroyed the famous hotel and restaurant known as Mitchell's in 1978. 
 For 15 years, a series of private owners failed to push their plans for a commercial development of the property past the local planning board and elected officials. Even after the last owner, Mohring Enterprises, defaulted on its mortgage and the village acquired the land in 1996, conflicts arose over who should choose the final design and where a carousel house, which the mayor had envisioned as a magnet for children of the village, should be located. 
No small part of the achievement is Mr. Kapell's success in securing government assistance. So far, the state has committed $3.1 million to the project, which with a future marina and ice rink will have a final price tag of $10 million.
"I don't think it could have happened without him," a former mayor, Joseph L. Townsend, said of Mr. Kapell. "He has exactly the right blend of creativity, aggressiveness and charm to get things done."
The first phase of the construction of the new 3.4-acre park includes an amphitheater formed by semicircles of flagstone walls facing Peconic Bay. The new harbor walk stretches across the park to the partly completed dock that will become a municipal marina during phase two of the project. The carousel, given to Greenport by Northrop-Grumman when it closed its employee amusement park in 1995, now has a permanent home in a sleek modern structure of glass, steel and wood.
While shop owners expect the new park to help business, Mr. Kapell said Mitchell Park is first and foremost for the people of the village. In the winter, long after summer visitors have fled, the skating rink will operate alongside the carousel house, which will be heated.
"Our focus is on improving the quality of life in Greenport without really changing our village," Mayor Kapell said.
But the consensus among Greenporters seems to be that the park is an emblem of major change for the 200-year-old village. Greenport's increasing attractiveness as a vacation spot for residents up-Island and from New York City and as a second-home alternative to the Hamptons has brought rising numbers of cars and people along with rapidly inflating real estate values.
Paul Henry, a real estate tax consultant, said property prices had increased between 60 and 80 percent over the last two to three years. Waterfront property has gone up by as much 100 percent, he said.
"Greenport is changing big time," said Fernando Silie, who has worked for seven years at Clinton Hommel, a plumbing supply store on Main Street, and who said he moved from New York City so he could raise his daughters in a quiet place. Only it's not so quiet anymore.
"Now there are so many cars and motor bikes flying by my house on the way to the boat yard," Mr. Silie said. "They don't even see the stop sign."
Additional money is earmarked by the state to widen the traffic lanes of Front Street, where the park is located, and add off-site parking fields.
Of course, streets pulsing with more cars and people are good news for store owners, who often must struggle through the winter months.
"We are supposed to be in a recession, but Memorial Day was like the Fourth of July here," said Harvey Katz, owner of Harvey Claudio's Wines & Liquors. "The weather was bad, but town was jammed."
Mr. Katz, who recently expanded the shop he has owned for 11 years, is not alone among small business owners who are making significant new investment in the village. Around the corner, the owners of the Harbor Front Deli plan to move into a larger space under construction a few doors down. A downtown budget motel, The Greenporter, is being converted by new owners into a luxury spa. Porgie's, a former family restaurant just east of where Main Street meets the north road, is undergoing an estimated $500,000 reconstruction. The building is being transformed into The Shady Lady, a restaurant and hotel where, it is rumored, overnight lodging will top out at $300.
"We are seeing projects where the expenditure does not seem to be warranted by the current economy of the village," Mr. Townsend said. "The park is the beginning of permanent change for the village."
He added that the contemporary design of the housing for the antique carousel was an appropriate metaphor for Greenport.
"This village has always been a conglomeration of tastes, sophistication and honky-tonk," he said. "We've had bootleggers and brothels and families. Now we have added vineyards and spas and organic farms."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The opening of Mitchell Park also was a chance for children to enjoy a carousel, which is housed in a modern structure of glass, steel and wood.; A crowd gathered at the ribbon-cutting ceremony, attended by Governor Pataki, for the opening of Mitchell Park in Greenport. (Photographs by Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); MARINAS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CHILDREN (75%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LEISURE TRAVEL (65%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; CAROUSELS 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%)

PERSON: KREAHLING, LORRAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) GREENPORT (NY); MITCHELL PARK (GREENPORT, NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



173 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Is This Why Gregory Peck Was So Cool? 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT residents should be warned that if they see a sporty little Italian motor scooter zip by them along the state's back roads this summer -- and they will see one -- please, don't call it a moped. Otherwise, they will not only offend its very particular owner (there just may be a movie star under that helmet), they will also unwittingly label themselves as tragically un-hip.
 After a 15-year absence, the Vespa motor scooter -- made famous by Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn in "Roman Holiday" and by Matt Damon and Gwyneth Paltrow in "The Talented Mr. Ripley" -- is once again available in the United States. And with the perfect timing of high gasoline prices, climbing national scooter sales, and chi-chi marketing (Mitchells, the clothing store in Westport, has one on its sales floor), the Vespa is becoming this year's Must Have, joining the motorized stand-up scooter as another economical and trendy mode of transportation for the short jaunt. 
 "I see it as a stylish novelty," said Mary Rappa, a 41-year-old Greenwich mother of two young boys, who recently was at the state's only dealership at Branchville Motors in Ridgefield recently to pick up her new, $3,950 Dragon Red Vespa. "I like the fact that the Vespa looks retro. We live in an area where there are many Europeans and when people see it they do recognize it."
Charles Roy, 40, a Greenwich tax lawyer, said he doesn't even need a car to get to work now that he owns a Vespa. Mr. Roy said he was "quite intent" on buying a Vespa for a long time "because they are fun, and because of vanity," but they weren't available until recently. He finally purchased a black model in March. Each work day, he puts on a suit, straddles the Vespa and scoots to his office, which is one mile from his home.
"I buy $2 worth of gas, which gets me about 50 miles and lasts about three weeks," he said. "It is so practical for me."
The Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles considers the Vespa to be a motorcycle and requires new owners to pass a written and driving test and to register and insure them.
Mike Mount of the Motorcycle Industry Council of Irvine, Calif., which monitors industry sales, said in an e-mail message that national, overall scooter sales, which include such brands as Honda and Yamaha, have been increasing steadily since 1999 when 25,000 were sold. About 33,000 were sold in 2000, he said, and figures from January through April of this year are 38 percent higher than the same period last year.
Vespa re-entered the United States market last fall. The scooters were first manufactured with manual transmissions in Italy in 1946 and were sold in the United States until 1985 when the company left the market rather than deal with stringent federal anti-pollution standards. New technology has made the scooters, now with automatic transmissions, compliant with the United States standards, said Peter J. Laitmon, president of Vespa East Coast. Right now, the $3,000 and $4,000 model are available only at Branchville Motors, which sold only motorcycles and accessories prior to adding the Vespa line. But that will soon change, Mr. Laitmon said, as he has 68 requests from other business owners in Connecticut to sell the scooter.
At Branchville, Vespa designer clothing and other fashion merchandise is interspersed among the brightly colored scooters (Dragon Red is the most popular).
"We're selling about one a day," said Alex Gifford, owner of Branchville Motors, adding that it has sold more than 100 since sales began in March. "Many of our customers are very well educated and well traveled. They've seen them in Europe and would love to have one. I think they are the bike of choice for short trips." Mr. Gifford said when he drives his to a local dairy bar on Sunday mornings, "people flock around to see what it is."
Ms. Rappa and Mr. Roy reported similar experiences. Piaggio Europei of Italy, which makes the Vespa, is counting on the Vespa's chic, unencumbered style, nostalgia and Hollywood cachet to attract buyers. The scooters have appeared not only in movies like "American Graffiti," "Quadrophenia," "Austin Powers," and "American Pie," but also have been used in advertisements by American Express, Coca Cola, IBM and most recently by Abercrombie & Fitch in its spring catalog.
"We have always felt we were in the fashion and entertainment business, not the transportation business," Mr. Laitmon said. "Our concept is not coming back and selling Vespas in motorcycle shops, but as a lifestyle."
Mr. Laitmon said that the director Steven Spielberg and the comedian Jerry Seinfeld own Vespas. "Vespas have appeared in so many movies, that's how people came to know them," he said. "It would be wrong not to capitalize on the celebrity."
But all the talk of upscale owners and pop culture rankles Vespa purists like Michael J. Charles of New Canaan and Geoff Bolek of Stratford, who belong to a subset of Vespa owners that shuns the new versions for the vintage models. Mr. Laitmon estimated that there were 30,000 Vespas from the 50's, 60's and 70's in the United States and that vintage owners enjoy "an espirit de corps that represents the hardcore people who are the keepers of the flame."
Indeed, Mr. Charles, 31, who owns four vintage Vespas, takes on the zeal of an evangelist when he talks about his scooters.
"There's nothing else like sitting on a Vespa," he said. "I have such a kinship with the old ones. I was 15 when I sat on my first one and I felt like I was in Europe and I was back in the 60s. It's a true addiction."
Mr. Charles said he first became aware of the Vespa when he saw the 1979 movie "Quadrophenia." In the movie, the musician Sting zipped around on a Vespa, epitomizing the edgy "mod" scene of London. "That, to me, was it," Mr. Charles said. "That fact that you can get on a bike and it takes you back there, it's the closest thing to owning a time machine." 
Mr. Bolek, 31, said he thought that buying a new Vespa for $4,000 "just isn't practical." He said he bought his first Vespa, a 1973 model for $100, in 1992 "when you could still find them in the classified ads."
He bought his second one in 1977 for $600. "There's no way I'd part with it," he said. "I rebuilt it with a lot of trial and tribulation. That's the beauty of the thing -- there isn't a lot of moving parts." Mr. Bolek said he gets almost 50 miles to the gallon. But, that's not all he gets.
"It's fun to ride," he said. "On the scooter, you're going slow. You get from point A to point B and you do it in style. I'm trying to have as much style as Gregory Peck, I guess."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael J. Charles, left, of New Canaan rides one of his four vintage Vespas. Above, drivers gather in Ridgefield to take the Department of Motor Vehicle test for their motorcycle license, which is required to drive a motor scooter. (Photographs by Debbi Morello for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A Vespa inside Mitchells, the clothing store in Westport. The company's sister store, Richards, in Greenwich even had one in the window. (Debbi Morello for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); LAWYERS (62%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%) MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS; MOTION PICTURES 

ORGANIZATION: VESPA (CO) 

PERSON: MATT DAMON (56%); GWYNETH PALTROW (56%) DIGRAZIA, CHRISTINE; PECK, GREGORY; HEPBURN, AUDREY (1929-93) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

TITLE: ROMAN HOLIDAY (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



174 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: MY MONEY, MY LIFE; 
Red Scare Over Newark

BYLINE:  By HELEN LIPPMAN; Helen Lippman writes about health and employee benefits. Submit your account of struggling or succeeding as a worker, consumer, investor or entrepreneur to My Money, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to mymoney @nytimes.com. All submissions become the property of The Times. They may be edited and may be republished in any medium.

 BODY:
I WAS a red-diaper baby. Born in 1947, the year the House Un-American Activities Committee unleashed its vengeance on the film industry, I learned secrecy at my mother's knee. 
 My parents, first-generation Russian-American Jews, remained members of the Communist Party throughout my childhood. They often talked to my sister and me about their idealistic belief in a society in which everyone happily shared wealth and power. Yet their insistence that we keep that vision to ourselves conveyed the message that people could not be trusted. 
 I dared to defy them only once, when I was 7, passing on my rudimentary understanding of their views to a friend. "Everybody has it backwards," I told her. Then I rattled off names of nations, carefully explaining that the ones people thought were bad were really good, and vice versa. I swore her to secrecy, but my lapse so terrified me that I kept our secret for another 20 years.
While I have long since rejected my parents' beliefs and overcome my fear, my upbringing has left its mark, reflected in the choices I make and the way I spend my money.
Newark, my father's birthplace, was my home for 21 years. We remained there until after the 1967 riots, repeatedly readjusting to a city in flux. Every four or five years, we moved to a different neighborhood, always after my parents' dedication to living in an integrated area was shattered by the realization that we were practically the only white family left.
Politics and party membership had a direct effect on family finances. Dad, an accountant, never even tried to become a C.P.A. He was concerned that sitting for the exam would have required him to sign a loyalty oath. Convinced that the F.B.I. was watching us -- citing men lurking, strangers knocking and telephones he thought were tapped -- he refused to take the risk.
Clearly, neither he nor my mother made much money. Yet my parents' spending habits, I suspect, had at least as much to do with a Depression-era mentality and an anticonsumerism attitude as with the size of their bank account. In the middle of a booming postwar economy, they acted as if it were sinful to desire frivolous things.
Consider the automobile. Our first car was a hand-me-down from my father's boss, an enormous clunker that Dad called Chief Hungry Horse, for its gas-guzzling habits and the Indian head on its hood. Our second, deemed a necessity, was bought only after the demise of Hungry Horse -- a new but stripped-down model in basic black without even a radio.
Clothing, too, was utilitarian. On shopping excursions, Mom taught me to inspect seams, reject rayon and forget about lacy frills that could easily fray. Despite an occasional temper tantrum, I generally accepted her no-nonsense approach.
Until I discovered mohair sweaters. Luxuriously soft and fluffy but leaning toward the impractical, these long cardigans were a fashion highlight of my high school days. The girls I envied had six or seven in an array of pastels, often with shoes to match. I had one, in baby pink, bought with my own money. 
Intellect was paramount to my parents, so they bought me books, a chemistry set and a miniature telescope. They also permitted me to attend Girl Scout camp, where a God we didn't believe in was part of the daily program. A fellow camper, also the daughter of Communists, shocked me by announcing her family's atheism to our bunkmates.
Now I belong to a Unitarian Fellowship, a spiritual community whose members share a desire to question life's mysteries and find our own answers. And I'm still a one-sweater woman; I believe that my two grown daughters are, too.
They were, after all, practically the only girls in their grammar school who never owned a Cabbage Patch Kid. When I see them squirreling away money for long-awaited purchases much the way my mother did, I realize that my family's disdain for conspicuous consumption has been passed on to another generation. 
Although my children grew up in a quiet suburb, I prefer a faster-paced, more integrated community, much like the Newark of my youth. In downtown Montclair, N.J., my home for several years, virtually everything is within walking distance, and the town itself is deliberately diverse. 
MY choice of career, however, is one that my father rejected. A clever user of words and the editor of his high school yearbook, he repeatedly said he would have pursued journalism if he had been free to write what he believed, not what others wanted. I did enter the field and have achieved success as a magazine editor and, more recently, as a freelancer. Pleasing editors and writing the truth as I see it, I generally find, are not mutually exclusive. 
I'm more apt to treat myself these days, secure that I earn enough to cover the cost of an occasional whim. But I'm still my parents' daughter: the 2001 Corolla I bought last summer is a no-nonsense car without so much as an automatic door lock. 
Some things can change over time, though. In his late 70's, Dad took to playing the market like a true capitalist. By the time he died, he had accumulated a tangled mass of stocks, mutual funds, bonds and annuities. But he left next to no records.
I originally attributed this to the waning mental acuity of a man in his late 80's. Now I suspect otherwise. Dad's failure to work with a financial adviser and to leave a solid paper trail just might be a final expression of his furtiveness and distrust, nurtured by years of being an American Communist in the midst of red-baiters.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (57%) PERSONAL FINANCES 

PERSON: LIPPMAN, HELEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



175 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
A Hulking Factory Is Given New Life in Norwalk

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
FOR half a century a hulking 140,000-square-foot brick building loomed half-vacant and deteriorating over the corner of Marshall and North Water Streets in South Norwalk. In recent years it became a pariah amid its historic neighbors: the Maritime Aquarium across the street, the shops and restaurants around the corner on Washington Street, and the spreading development of the waterfront under urban renewal.
 Built in 1856 as the Norwalk Lock Company and vacated in the 1950's, the building became a warren of warehouse operations, carpentry and plumbing services, small businesses and artists' studios. 
 Last month it reopened as Maritime Place after a $12.3 million rehabilitation that has delighted tenants and visitors with its imaginative use of the 130,000 square feet left after partial demolition. Bruce Beinfield, a principal in the Norwalk firm of Beinfield Wagner Architects, and Eric Rains, project manager for Wesley Stout Associates, a New Canaan landscaping company, have converted a daunting old war horse of a building into a sophisticated interpretation of its hard-bitten industrial past. 
It is already 65 percent leased to a variety of office tenants. Annual rents that once accommodated impecunious artists and marginal businesses at $3 and $4 a square foot are now in the mid-$20's a square foot, still well below the mid-$30's and higher that prevails in Fairfield County's Gold Coast towns. Spaces range from 2,500 to 25,000 square feet, but hover predominantly around 3,000 to 5,000 square feet, with ground-floor space suitable for a restaurant or retail operation.
The project was developed in cooperation with the city and the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency, which has oversight of a 70-acre area from the Norwalk River to West Avenue between Interstate 95 and Washington Street. The redevelopment partnership consists of the Spinnaker Companies of Stamford; Summit Development L.L.C., the leasing agent; and Greenfield Partners, both formerly of Westport but now headquartered at Maritime Place with 10-year leases for 2,000 and 9,000 square feet respectively. Spinnaker has leased an 820-square-foot office as manager of the building, but its headquarters remains in Stamford. 
The Lock Building, as it is known locally, is one of two Norwalk projects undertaken by the partnership. The second is the redevelopment of an 80-acre site at Norden Place off Strawberry Hill Road. Norden, a developer of radar equipment, has four years to go on a five-year lease with options for the 481,000 square feet it occupies. The property, developed by United Technologies, Norden's former parent, was sold to the Greenfield-Summit-Spinnaker partnership last year. 
The space vacated by a downsized Norden in the sprawling 633,000-square-foot two-story building is a sea of rubble while workers gut the interior before reconfiguring it as a flex office and research and development complex. Three tennis courts encircled by a running track will be retained on the property, along with a softball field and woods and wetlands where deer gambol. Driving a narrow forested road through the site could pass as a short spin in the country except for I-95 running alongside, out of sight behind dense summer foliage. 
A concrete helipad will be demolished and vast expanses of surface parking for 2,200 cars, minimal landscaping and an unpreposessing entrance to the property will be redesigned into a parklike setting by Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum P.C. of New York, serving as landscape architects. The building is being redesigned by Perkins Eastman, Stamford architects, with Mr. Beinfield as architectural consultant. 
Charles Hoffman, a broker with Cushman & Wakefield in Stamford, has been talking to prospective tenants looking for 15,000 to 100,000 square feet. "We think it's a great location just off Exit 16 of I-95 and great value for brand-new, efficient office space without going to the eastern end of the county to get it," he said. "We're shooting for January 2002 occupancy."
KIM MORQUE, Spinnaker's director of development, found the disparities between the two buildings, built 100 years apart, a challenge. "Norden was built in the 60's and had a full set of original plans, with large floor plates, lots of steel and concrete, no mystery," he said.
But the Lock Building was a trip into the unknown because of its age and various uses, all brick and timber construction and lack of documentation, he said, and "community interest in these historic buildings made the project highly visible."
To begin with, 17 feet of the building facing the aquarium across North Water Street had to be cut off to create a 12-foot sidewalk where there had been none. New footings and a new brick wall were constructed, and the old bricks were used in various parts of the reworked building. Interior courtyards were revealed when old wooden buildings set into them were removed.
Original interior brick walls were cleaned and retained, supported by massive original wooden beams and perpendicular timbers. A new three-story main entrance on Marshall Street was glass-fronted with two tiers of steel and steel-mesh balconies inside. 
Walls made of wallboard were painted with a formula devised by Eve Novotny, a faux finisher in Stamford. Combining real rust with paint and other materials, she achieved a richly textured rusty look that the architect wanted. Concrete floors have been polished to a marble sheen, and tin-clad, heavy wood-core doors, fabricated in Lowell, Mass., are dead ringers for clanging old factory doors. The original black and white Norwalk Lock Factory sign on an exterior wall was exposed under layers of paint and touched up enough to be legible. 
One of two enormous original boilers was left standing in the board room of the Greenfield Partners' space. Two stories high, the room has a Beinfield-designed pyramidal fireplace painted in rust and edged in steel. Mr. Beinfield also designed the 4 1/2 by 14 1/2 foot conference table of half-inch steel plate weighing 2,500 pounds, painted black and treated with polyurethane. Lighting, designed by Mr. Beinfield and fabricated by the development's in-house electricians, is composed of 10- and 12-inch tall clear tubular bulbs with orange filaments. Some are strung vertically in a line from a steel plate high above the table; others rise from 7-foot-high copper poles attached to the floor and wall.
"We wanted the place to have a mythological industrial look of the bygone era," Mr. Beinfield said, "mixing new and old in ways that people would not be able to distinguish."
In one of three landscaped courtyards, Wesley Stout Associates installed a striking fountain consisting of a huge vertical iron pipe with a curved piece at the top, broken at the end where water spills out continuously onto a stone floor under which lies the reservoir that stores and supplies the water. The pipe looks like castoff industrial equipment, but it is brand new. 
Even the art, on loan from the Silvermine Guild Arts Center in New Canaan, is attuned to the industrial theme. Two outdoor sculptures by Carole Eisner were created from industrial iron parts into striking works that are for sale for $44,000 and $36,000. A pair of indoor sculptures by Kevin Thomas in gold-glazed ceramic are $4,500 each. 
Silvermine hopes to exhibit in some of the building's ground floor windows, giving some credence to Maritime Place's subtitle: the Lock Art and Technology Center. The name is all that remains of the artists who lived and worked there until about a year and a half ago and were unable to negotiate the inclusion of an art center in the city's concept for the building.
The Navios Corporation moved last month into the largest space occupied so far. A former wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Steel, it is now a privately owned shipping company that operates large bulk carriers of iron ore, coal, grain and bauxite worldwide, with a terminal business in South America. Its 13,000-square-foot headquarters supplants former locations in Stamford, Greenwich and Wall Street dating from 1978. "You can see we've been moving gradually north and east," said the company's president, Anthony Whitworth.
"Most of our employees live in Norwalk, or east or northeast of Norwalk, so the commute is improved dramatically. Lower cost is another factor, and a feature I found attractive is the ability to expand within the building."
Occupying 3,000 square feet since May 18, the Nat Nast Company is a maker of men's luxury sportswear. Patty Nast Canton, a daughter of the founder, runs the company with her sister, Barbara Nast Saletan. "We outgrew our space in Wilton," Ms. Canton said, "and we had our eye on this building from the time we heard it was going to happen. We have a showroom in New York, our design studio here and manufacturing in China, Peru and Italy." 
"They've done a remarkable job with conceptualizing the space," she said. "We hope to be able to expand here. Our only complaint is we still don't have window shades."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The architect Bruce Beinfield, left, and Kim Morque, director of development at Spinnaker, part of a redevelopment partnership. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlighting Norwalk and the Maritime Place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); RADAR SYSTEMS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NORWALK (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



176 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2850 words

HEADLINE: When New Homes Drive Out Old Jobs 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
ON the northwest edge of Bedford-Stuyvesant -- bordering the bodegas and housing projects of DeKalb Avenue, but only three blocks from the Italianate brownstones and Victorian mansions of Clinton Hill -- six former factories built on a street called Taaffe Place at the turn of the last century have been reincarnated as beautifully renovated residential lofts with rents of up to $3,300 a month.
 The transformation of those century-old buildings seems at first like an answer to a community prayer -- trading up from industrial bleakness to residential sophistication. But to those within the manufacturing community that until recently thrived in the old buildings, and to many who live in the low-lying houses and apartment buildings surrounding it, the conversion bodes the end of something vital. To them, the changes driven by forces outside their community are less than welcome. 
 "Sometimes, when neighborhoods improve, the word 'gentrification' is overused," said Vivian Becker, director of the Pratt Area Community Council, a housing advocacy group in the neighborhood. 
It certainly seems premature, given the still gritty character of the community, to say that the border between Clinton Hill and Bed-Stuy has gone upscale. Yet there are pressure points in the city, like this one, where market forces and social shifts buffet a portion of the population and a sector of the economy like a sudden storm -- despite the fact that the change was made, to use zoning parlance, entirely "as of right."
In this case -- because of the conversion of manufacturing space in the six buildings on Taaffe Place and well beyond -- businesses have been displaced or shuttered, jobs have been lost and rents have jumped, leaving less-than-affluent local residents scared.
"What we're seeing in Clinton Hill, Fort Greene and western Bedford-Stuyvesant," Ms. Becker said, "is skyrocketing rents, tremendous turnover in home- and business ownership and rising home prices."
"What we would hope," she continued, "is to strike a balance between neighborhood improvement and business retention, as well as lower- and moderate-income resident retention."
There is a confluence of forces coming to bear on the neighborhood, said Rex Curry, associate director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development (not connected to Ms. Becker's group). The stately buildings of the Pratt Institute campus are nestled between the manufacturing district to the east and the more upscale Clinton Hill environs to the west.
In a long-roiling residential market, where rents and prices have barely abated in the city, even during the national economic slowdown, those wide open spaces in multistory warehouses and factories -- some vacant, some still hosting active businesses -- have become tantalizingly ripe for conversion.
"This is a giant pincer movement of two real estate activities," Professor Curry said. "One is the gentrification of Clinton Hill. These are refugees from Manhattan looking for $1,500 for a one-bedroom instead of $2,500, or two-, three-bedrooms for what they would pay for a one-bedroom in Manhattan. And the other is the expansion of the Hasidic community from Williamsburg, which is creating an enormous housing demand."
As Ms. Becker pointed out: "What ends up happening is that the interests of different groups get pitted against each other. Most of the employees who lose their jobs are local residents, primarily Latino."
TWO weeks ago, in a report commissioned by the Municipal Art Society, a nonprofit planning and preservation organization, the Pratt development center analyzed the continuing squeeze experienced by the manufacturing sector, what it calls the "silent partner" in the city's economy.
"An increasing number of properties in manufacturing and mixed-use zoning districts are being converted to nonmanufacturing uses such as commercial and residential space through variances granted by the New York City Board of Standards and Appeals," the report says. The conversion phenomenon is particularly apparent in and around the mixed-used zones, which permit existing industrial space to be retained, while also allowing as-of-right transfer of property to residential use.
Pointing out that manufacturing still provides nearly a quarter of a million jobs in the city, the report -- called "Making it in New York" -- says that "the manufacturing sector is no longer characterized by the smokestack industries of the past, but by a mix of small and midsized production businesses and 'niche' firms that are integrally related to the city's economic drivers, such as the finance, creative, cultural and health-care industries."
Gone are most of the chemical and pharmaceutical factories, the breweries, the electroplating and steel fabricating companies. What remains are the apparel, food-processing, furniture, precision instrument and printing companies, which, according to the report, average 34 employees each.
Sarah Crean, senior project manager for the New York Industrial Retention Network, a nonprofit group sponsored by the Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation, said that in 1980 there were 18,914 manufacturing companies in the city with 492,407 employees. As of December 2000, Ms. Crean said, there were 9,486 manufacturing firms employing 234,531 people. "So the number has been cut in half, at least, over the last 20 years," she said.
"Most manufacturers are renters," Ms. Crean continued, "and even if they are located in a zone with a manufacturing designation, other types of businesses can come in on an as-of-right basis. This means that manufacturers are competing with a variety of businesses that can pay higher rents -- all types of information-based, service-based enterprises, art galleries, retail, storage." 
At the same time, as the Pratt report says, "Mixed-use zones have encouraged private owners to land-bank their properties in anticipation of the opportunity to dramatically increase their financial returns."
"City policy makers need to understand," the report continues, "that diversification of our economy is key to the creation of a sustained and healthy economy, particularly one that meets the employment needs of a diverse and rapidly changing population."
Roberto Santana, owner of the Christopher Food Center, a bodega on DeKalb Avenue across from the Lafayette Gardens housing project and around the corner from the Taaffe Place loft buildings, is worried about the 33 percent jump in his rent. "The area, it is changing," said Mr. Santana, so much so that for some months his landlord did not want to renew the lease. "He wanted to make his own business here, to put in his own liquor store," Mr. Santana said.
After extended negotiations, however, the lease was renewed last month. "Before, I paid $1,500; now it's up to $2,000," said Mr. Santana who, somewhat ironically, now hopes the Taaffe Place homes will soon be filled. "Maybe if the people come, I'll be able to make it," he said.
Melanie and Karl Carter -- she an associate art director for a magazine; he the owner of a marketing and promotions company -- came to Taaffe Place two months ago from Atlanta.
"We looked at Harlem and Washington Heights," Ms. Carter said. "I wanted to live in a brownstone area or an apartment building, and Karl wanted to live in a loft. Karl won. So I get to pick out all the furniture."
It wasn't as though Ms. Carter, 27, was disappointed with the 1,800-square-foot, sixth-floor space at 241 Taaffe Place. "I came in and said, 'Wow, this is it,' " she said. "It's a corner, two sides; 10 windows with views of the Manhattan Bridge, the Williamsburg Bridge, the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building." The loft, with two full bathrooms, two clothes closets and two large utility closets, is renting for $3,000 a month.
Agreeing that the neighborhood is "not luxurious," Ms. Carter said: "It wasn't that we chose the apartment because of the neighborhood; we chose the apartment and took the neighborhood that was coming with it. But the nice thing is that there are wonderful restaurants up DeKalb Avenue" -- including French, Caribbean and Middle Eastern sidewalk cafes that have unfurled their awnings in recent years -- "and beautiful Pratt Institute and Fort Greene Park."
The six buildings on Taaffe Place were purchased in 1999 by Alma Realty, whose president, Efstathios Valiotis, said he paid $9 million, with renovation costs projected at about $20 million. Since 1978, Mr. Valiotis has purchased about 25 buildings containing approximately 3,500 units in the metropolitan area, including an 800-apartment co-op on Marine Boulevard in Jersey City that had been in bankruptcy and a 16-story, 284-unit co-op on Colden Street in Flushing, Queens.
"I decided to create lofts on Taaffe Place because of the shortage of apartments all over the city," Mr. Valiotis said. "The market was there for good investments." 
There will eventually be 335 apartments, ranging from 1,000 to 2,000 square feet. "Some have decks, terraces," Mr. Valiotis said. "Some are duplexes." All have 12- to 14-foot-high ceilings. "There's new plumbing, new heating, new windows, new electrical, new elevators, open kitchens with small islands," he said. "The floors we kept the way they were, just scraped them."
Rents range from $2,000 a month to $3,300. "Just bring your own furniture," he said.
THERE were about 25 businesses in the buildings, which were about 65 percent occupied, when he bought them, Mr. Valiotis said. Among them were cabinetmakers, a quilt manufacturer, a chair reupholsterer, a silk-screening company, three fabric wholesalers, a mattress refurbisher, manufacturers of jewelry, jewelry boxes, luggage. 
"They all had six-month cancellation clauses when I came," Mr. Valiotis said. "Some of them complied and moved out; some of them went to court and we had to evict them." The companies employed about 275 people.
Mr. Valiotis's daughter, Sophia, the on-site building coordinator for the project, said, "I can't tell you that we didn't displace workers, but we offset that by hiring workers." 
"We ended up subcontracting for the electricals, also the plumbing, and we hired a local security company," Ms. Valiotis said. "We've also hired 17 to 20 permanent workers; we've given out temporary construction work to local workers. And Brooklynites have been, and will be, moving into these apartments." Pratt Institute, she also pointed out, has taken two floors in one of the buildings to house students.
John Strohbeen and Jerry Schlemowitz aren't mollified.
Mr. Strohbeen, president of Ohm Acoustics, manufacturers of speakers for stereos and home theaters, had operated out of a Taaffe Place building for 28 years. "The old landlord told us things were going as normal, and then he sent a letter announcing that he had sold the building and that we should immediately vacate," Mr. Strohbeen said. That was in the summer of 1999. 
"We were doing very well," Mr. Strohbeen said. "Then we had to spend an unrecoverable amount of time looking for space elsewhere. I figure we lost one or two months of business from the disruption. Eventually, we located at 76 Degraw Street in Cobble Hill -- a smaller space at a higher price." 
Mr. Schlemowitz is president of Carpenter's Graphic, creators of ornate storefronts for landmark-designated buildings. After six years on Taaffe Place, he has yet to find a suitable new space and is temporarily sharing another company's space. "We looked actively," he said, "at least 30 different places: Williamsburg, the Bush Terminal area, lower Park Slope, Dumbo. If your rent was $4 per square foot per year -- we had 3,000 square feet -- and suddenly it's going to go to $18, you're in trouble. That's what the rate is today to go to, like, Dumbo."
Ms. Becker of the Pratt neighborhood group tracked 11 of the displaced companies. "Three went out of business," she said. "The rest relocated, some out of the country -- Santo Domingo, Haiti -- some out of state. They went to Long Island City, Sunset Park, the Bronx Terminal Market, New Jersey."
Mr. Schlemowitz said he had to auction off a lot of his equipment: "The saw, the computer router, sanding machines. We kept a few items -- what we call tooling for antique profiles and shapes to make all the classic moldings that go into fitting out an edifice or a door."
Currently, Mr. Schlemowitz is "bunking in with another cabinet shop to complete a project," he said. "From there, we don't know. His lease is up in a year also; a big rent increase. He's on the brink of where I was."
Last year, Professor Curry at Pratt surveyed about 90 properties between Flushing Avenue, Fulton Street, Clermont Avenue and Franklin Avenue that were "ripe for the kind of conversion" that occurred on Taaffe Place -- some vacant, some not. "Of the 90-some sites we found, almost every one is undergoing some kind of physical renewal," he said. "I can only think of three, maybe four that have yet to turn."
That sort of pressure "not only pushes jobs all over the place," the professor said, "it breaks up the 50-year formation of a cluster of businesses that have learned to depend on one another for an exchange of labor, resources, supplies, maintenance services."
Mr. Strohbeen of Ohm Acoustics said: "I had the only forklift, and virtually all the floors used it. One of the places used to cut our boards for us. There was sort of a flowing interchange of machinery and tools, if you ever needed something. In fact, we just recently returned a spare air compressor that we borrowed before we left. They moved to Queens. And they had some of our fans."
In Professor Curry's assessment: "There isn't any city policy for manufacturing retention, something that puts resources into areas of rapid change like this one where market forces suddenly just make things happen. There isn't a resource that looks at that problem, or can react in time."
The report prepared by the Pratt development center for the Municipal Art Society makes several recommendations for city action to support the manufacturing sector:
*Creation of manufacturing development zones where commercial development would be restricted and residential development would be restricted or entirely prohibited.
*Establishment of what the report calls nontransitional mixed-use zones where a predetermined balance of uses would be maintained.
*Promotion of manufacturing development through zoning regulations, financial incentives and infrastructure, such as construction of transportation and utility lines.
*Creation of a Trust for Industrial Space, an organization to acquire and develop properties for manufacturing.
"This is not an attempt to stop the clock," said Kent Barwick, executive director of the Municipal Art Society. "There are many areas in the city zoned for manufacturing where manufacturing doesn't exist, and these should now be thoughtfully rezoned for residential or commercial."
"And we're not pretending that it's 1935 and there are blue-collar workers all over the five boroughs," Mr. Barwick continued. "But we want to recognize that this is a central part of the economy, and we need to plan for it and assure that there is a place for it. That is the reason we need policies that are sort of more nuanced than the city has now."
The chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, Joseph B. Rose, took a more market-oriented approach to the problem. "While over the last three or four decades New York's industrial economy has declined significantly, it remains an important economic sector worthy of public attention," Mr. Rose said. "And the report offers some interesting suggestions to consider."
"But the city has to be careful not to substitute bureaucratic meddling for private, market-based initiatives," Mr. Rose continued. "Zoning and similar regulatory approaches have been consistently shown to be irrelevant to the health of the manufacturing sector. There's no reason at this point to believe that has changed."
FROM the vantage point of his grand, filigreed porch on Clinton Avenue in increasingly affluent Clinton Hill -- four blocks from Taaffe Place -- Tim Sullivan holds a long-term perspective on all of the change in his community. A retired interior designer, Mr. Sullivan lives in an 18-room home built in the 1850's, the style of which he alternately describes as Country Villa, Queen Anne or Victorian.
"When I was a student at Pratt, all the factories were very active," he said, "and the Brooklyn Navy Yard in the 40's was very busy. Then, for a long time, it was so fallow around here that a lot of the houses were turned into rooming houses, S.R.O.'s." 
"This has always been an integrated neighborhood," Mr. Sullivan continued, "Waspy folks, old-time Italians in row houses on Vanderbilt, now lots of blacks; and a lot of those people are very wealthy blacks."
Mr. Sullivan bought his home, with its interior Gothic arches and ornate, perforated-plaster moldings and cornices, in 1965. "Thirty-five years ago you could buy a house in the neighborhood for between $12,000 and $25,000," he said. "We paid $20,000. These would now go for $750,000."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Six Taaffe Place buildings held 25 businesses.; Karl and Melanie Carter are paying $3,000 a month in rent for an 1,800-square-foot loft on the sixth floor at 241 Taaffe Place, Brooklyn. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); John Strohbeen, president of Ohm Acoustics. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Roberto Santana, center, owner of Christopher Food Center on DeKalb Avenue, speaks with Vivian Becker and Artemio Guerra of the Pratt Area Community Council. Tim Sullivan paid $20,000 for his 18-room Clinton Avenue house, right, in 1965. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 6) Map of Brooklyn highlighting Taaffe Place conversions. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR 

PERSON: TIMOTHY W SULLIVAN (51%) HEVESI, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



177 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: First of Three Middle-Income Buildings; 
A New Co-op Going Up in East Harlem

 BODY:
Ground was broken on Monday for the first of three middle-income co-op buildings on Madison Avenue in East Harlem. To be named Madison Park Apartments, the nine-story, 129-unit building that will span what is now a vacant lot between 119th and 120th Streets will be what Donald Capoccia, managing principal of the development company, called "a standard old-fashioned co-op." 
 But unlike most co-ops, the project brings together a variety of city, philanthropic and profit-making organizations. The land was bought from the city for $15 last month by the New York City Housing Partnership. It will be developed by Madison Park Development Associates, a joint venture of BFC Partners and L & M Equities. 
 The city's Housing Development Corporation is providing a $3.75 million construction loan at an interest rate of 1 percent. The remainder of the $18 million construction financing will come from J. P. Morgan Chase. 
When the building is complete, the Housing Development Corporation will issue a second loan of $3.75 million at 7.5 percent interest. Overall interest will average out at 4.25 percent. The Federal National Mortgage Association will also participate both in providing equity and mortgages. 
To qualify for the co-ops, buyers can earn no more than 250 percent of the $59,100 median income for a family of four in the area, or $147,750 a year. 
But most residents are expected to fall below that threshold. Mr. Capoccia has agreed to market 75 percent of the apartments to households with incomes at or below 175 percent of the median, or $103,425 for a family of four.
Prices are expected to average $92,000 for a one-bedroom, $147,000 for a two-bedroom and $166,000 for a three-bedroom. 
The two companion buildings will be on Madison Avenue between 117th and 119th Streets.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: At Madison Park Apartments, prices are to range from $92,000 to $166,000. (Brett Stia for Leslie Feder Architect) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) HOUSING; COOPERATIVES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MADISON PARK DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATES; BFC PARTNERS; L&M EQUITIES 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



178 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Easton, Conn.; 
A Town of Homes and Country Roads

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
MENTION Greenwich, Westport, New Canaan, Darien, Stamford to people looking for a house and they have a positive response. Those are Fairfield County towns they understand. But Easton? 
 Local historians say the British marched right through it during the Revolution on their way to Danbury -- or was it Fairfield? Anyway, another town they thought important enough to burn down. Easton, a farming community where buttons were manufactured for a while, wasn't incorporated until 1845, indicating caution in the face of change. 
 That is still true today, which is why when some potential home buyers are introduced to it, Easton's charm escapes them. For in spite of its beautiful homes priced a third lower than those on the Gold Coast, and its excellent schools, it has certain deficiencies that some people find disconcerting. 
There is no food market, for one thing, no retail stores, no railroad station, street lights or public transportation. Look in vain for a town center or quaint New England green, a dry cleaner, barber shop, commercial enterprise of any kind or offices. Even the real estate agents showing homes in Easton are based in Fairfield, Trumbull, Westport, Newtown and Monroe. 
And, oh yes, Easton is dry. 
But it has one of the best school systems in the state, and the term "residential community" must have been invented for it. Apart from a few farm stands, a garage, two country stores that are mostly for sitting down over a hamburger and schmoozing with neighbors, it is all houses -- winding, verdant, hilly, view-rich country road after country road of them.
Last summer, Susan and James Torres and their three children moved to Easton from Plano, Tex., when he was transferred to Stamford by GE Capital. "The school system was very important to us, and on top of that we found the center hall colonial we were looking for," Mrs. Torres said.
"I must admit the quiet has its drawbacks, and it's a little out of the way for shopping," she said. "I had to pull out my Hagstrom to find the most direct back roads -- I think they're all back roads, through the woods to a Stop & Shop in Newtown -- that's the closest, 15 minutes away. If my mind wanders for a second, I can miss the tree that marks my turnoff."
But, she said, "there are 16 children in the five houses on our street and there is great peace of mind not having to worry about traffic. We have a lot of woods, a pond and wonderful wildlife -- turkey, owls, coyote, Canada geese, mallard. My middle daughter is the neighborhood champion frog-catcher." 
David Buchanan, an Eastonite since 1986, is equally enthusiastic and has no regrets about leaving Scarsdale behind. "But if you forget that loaf of bread," he said, "it's a bummer."
Three acres, which the Torreses have, and one acre are the only standard lot sizes in Easton. Except for the southern 20 percent of the town, there is no town water. Elsewhere, every house has a well and septic system. There are no sewers.
"House prices," said Jack Johnston, a broker with Raveis Real Estate in Fairfield, "range from $385,000 to $1.8 million -- that's about a 20 percent rise from five years ago. We started getting million dollar homes here two or three years ago. There's less inventory now -- around 100 homes on the market. They tend to sell for 5 to 10 percent lower than asking." 
JUDGING by what John Hayes, the town land use planner, calls "a constant stream of subdivision applications," Easton has been discovered as an upscale market. Jean Lanvo, a broker with Prudential Real Estate in Fairfield, said: "There is practically nothing under $400,000, and homes of $700,000 to $1.5 million that were sitting since January are moving now. We are getting relocated buyers and people from Darien, Westport and Shelton."
A dozen homes are being built at Tatetuck Estates, "starting at $1 million, but you get more house for your money than in lower Fairfield County," said Eileen Dauginas, a broker at the Raveis office in Trumbull. Jeff Monroe of the ReMax office in Monroe is handling six new homes at Easton Heights and five new homes at Victoria Estates priced from $859,000 to more than $1 million. Vacant lots, when you can find one, go for $250,000 to $300,000. 
One reason Easton is so rural is that more than 40 percent of its land is watershed, owned by the Kelda Corporation, a British company that took over Aquarion, parent of the Bridgeport Hydraulic Company, which distributes water to several nearby towns. The state is preparing to buy 15,000 acres of Kelda's land, including 5,469 acres in Easton, the rest in Westport and Weston, to prevent Kelda from selling it for development.
Easton is passionate about open space, yet fearful that its residentially dependent property taxes are hurting its older residents and young families. "We are looking into a new master plan," said Mr. Johnston, a member of the Board of Selectmen, "which could designate limited areas for small corporate headquarters or research centers, or a community for people 55 and older." There is no housing for older people, no multifamily housing and none that qualifies as affordable by state standards.
William Kupinse Jr., the first selectman, seeking a balance between taxes and growth, said: "Office development is not an option under current zoning regulations, and the tax rates in other towns show that commercialism hasn't solved their tax problems but created more burdens in town services. Once new people move into town they seem to want more urbanization -- retail, a movie house -- one person wanted street lights. People in town would be aghast if I proposed that."
In spite of an influx of vocal young professionals, the old-fashioned rural pleasures prevail when it comes to relaxation: a ballgame or an afternoon at the pond and beach in 20-acre Toth Park, horseback riding at Lion Hill Farms, tennis at the middle school courts, lectures and musicales at the library. The Fireman's Carnival from July 24 to 28 draws a large crowd to its games, rides, dunk tank and tons of barbecued chicken and spareribs. And Easton Day on Sept. 8 and 9 turns Helen Keller Middle School into a giant town picnic ground with amusement rides and a craft show.
The Recreation Department runs a day camp at Toth Park for $89 to $115 a week, and adults can take four weekly tennis lessons at the middle school courts for $114. Riding lessons cost about $45 an hour, but people riding their own horses clop along the roads in substantial numbers. There are no zoning regulations about keeping horses at home.
Adults with children in tow make frequent visits to Silverman's Country Farm to see the buffalo, llamas, Texas longhorns, Indian antelope, deer, pigs, Polish hens, goats and inhabitants of the duck pond. Grown-ups usually go home with a load of fresh peaches, pears, apples or pumpkins from the farm's vast orchards. They can also pick up freshly baked fruit pies, cakes and scones, private-label salad dressings, vinegars, jams, mustards and local honey. The second generation owner, Irv Silverman, calls it his "agri-tourism business."
Eating out in Easton is simple. The Bluebird Inn (no rooms, just meals), the Village Store or the Country Store-cum-Bill's Bistro and United States Post Office. The food is plain and fresh, and the prices are down-home reasonable. Breakfast or lunch costs around $6, dinner around $15. Service starts at 6 a.m. The post office, a former stagecoach stop, measures 750 square feet, sells stamps and services box holders. Sorting and delivery are out of Monroe.
"The centerpiece of the community" is how Superintendent of Schools Kenneth Freeston describes the school system. The district's average scores exceed the statewide average by 10 to 20 percent in Connecticut Mastery Tests, and the system's designation for excellence by the Federal Department of Education has attracted so many new residents that a major building program is under way. 
THIS fall the fifth grade at Samuel Staples Elementary School will move to the Helen Keller Middle School, and six portables will be put to use at Staples until a new elementary school can be built. Helen Keller Middle School will open a 25,000-square-foot addition of new classrooms for every grade level, and a $28.5 million, 72,000-square-foot addition, renovation and expansion of the playing fields at Joel Barlow High School will begin this summer. Located in Redding, it serves Easton and Redding students.
Easton students are encouraged to broaden their outlook by getting involved in community service at Bridgeport nursing homes and shelters. "We are under serious mandate by the state to create diversity," Mr. Freeston said. "Our high school graduates undergo culture shock in college, when white students may be only 40 percent of the population. We must find opportunities to reduce racial and economic isolation. We have four Bridgeport students, but we are so overcrowded that we can't take more."
Last year Staples's fifth grade students wrote, composed and produced an original operetta based on the life of Benjamin Franklin, in conjunction with the social studies curriculum. "It brought tears to my eyes," said Donna Dennison, the principal. Staples is one of six Connecticut schools using specially trained teachers for Higher Order Thinking -- a program that incorporates dance, theater, visual arts, music and writing into the curriculum. "Research has shown that children retain information and take more interest when the arts and academics are interconnected," she said.
The arts are a strong component throughout the Easton system. At the Helen Keller Middle School the curriculum, geared to preparation for high school, focuses on basics, the arts, French and Spanish and physical education, said the principal, Annemies Sniderman. 
At lunchtime on Fridays at the high school, Dr. Allan Fossbender, the principal, takes cafeteria duty. "We have relieved the teaching staff of pedestrian administrative duties," he said. Instead of monitoring hallways, teachers are available in labs for students who want help with a particular subject or concept.
Juniors must assemble extensive portfolios of their best writing for assessment, and the curriculum includes yearlong studies of such issues as plagiarism or why males are not achieving the same honor roll status as females.
Forty-two extracurricular activities include Amnesty International, a cappella choir, theater, jazz, student council and an environmental club. One area of the 33-acre campus is an environmental lab for bird migration studies, frog calling, wildflower surveys and vernal pool ecology.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about living in Easton, Conn., rendered the names of two stores incompletely and misstated the location of a restaurant. It is the Easton Village Store, not the Village Store, and Greizer's Country Store, not the Country Store. Bill's Bistro is behind the Easton Village Store, not behind Greizer's Country Store. A photo caption with the article repeated the error about Bill's Bistro; it is not in the building shown, which is Greizer's Country Store.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toth Park above, the town's only park. Right, the Congregational Church of Easton. Left, a town gathering place: the Post Office and Country Store, with Bill's Bistro in back. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); 2-bedroom, 2-bath Cape built in 1930 at 243 Adams Road, $399,000.; 4-bedroom, 2-bath Colonial built in 1780 at 36 Church Road, $529,900.; 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath new house at 4 Tatetuck Trail, $1,047,000. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 7,200.AREA: 28 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $100,697 (1997 estimate).MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE FAMILY HOUSE: $595,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $11,745.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $572,000.MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $379,000.PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: Elementary: $7,800; secondary $13,276.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 55 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: From Fairfield 1 hour, 10 minutes; from Westport 1 hour, 3 minutes, by Metro-North to Grand Central Terminal. One-way peak fare $11.75, monthly $254, for both.GOVERNMENT: First selectman (William J. Kupinse Jr., Republican), and two other members of the Board of Selectmen elected to two-year terms. Open town meetings as required.CODES: Area, 203; ZIP, 06612.A HOUSE FOR HELEN: Easton's favorite daughter, Helen Keller, about whom local stories abound and often contradict one another, was induced to move from Forest Hills, Queens, to Easton in 1924 by a man she met at a party: Gustav Pfeiffer, a wealthy businessman who lived in Easton. According to Lois Bloom, a town historian, when Mr. Pfeiffer responded to Ms. Keller's request for a donation to the Foundation for the Blind with a $500 check, a long-term friendship was established between them. He donated land within what is now a federally designated historic district and helped her build a house she called Arcan, Gaelic for teacher. In 1946, when she was in Europe, the house burned down. Mr. Pfeiffer provided her with lodging in one of several 18th- and 19th-century houses he owned in the district and with the help of friends rebuilt her home, where she remained until her death in 1968. Map of Connecticut highlighting Easton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HISTORY (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); RETAILERS (68%); BIRDS (62%) HOUSING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (65%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (65%); GEC (LSE) (65%); GE (SWX) (65%); GE (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) EASTON (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



179 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Susan Gerber, Anthony Lo Sasso

 BODY:
Dr. Susan Eve Gerber, the daughter of Dr. Marcia G. Gerber and Dr. Donald A. Gerber of Brooklyn, was married in Chicago last evening to Dr. 
Anthony Thomas Lo Sasso, a son of Patricia and Thomas A. Lo Sasso of Palatine, Ill. Rabbi Daniel Friedman officiated at the Chicago Historical Society.
 The bride and the bridegroom, both 32, work at Northwestern University in Chicago. The bride was a fellow at the university until last week. In August, she is to become an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology in the division of maternal-fetal medicine at Northwestern University Medical School. The bridegroom is a research assistant professor at the Institute for Health Services Research and Policy Studies, where he studies economic issues related to employer-sponsored health insurance. 
 Dr. Gerber is keeping her name. She graduated from Yale and received both her medical degree and a master's degree in public health from Columbia. Her parents are on the faculty of the State University Health Science Center at Brooklyn, where her father, a rheumatologist, is a professor of clinical medicine and her mother, an internist, is the director of the student and employee health service and is a clinical associate professor of medicine.
Dr. Lo Sasso graduated from DePaul and received a Ph.D. in economics from Indiana University. His mother is the office coordinator for library and media services at Oakton Community College in Des Plaines, Ill. His father retired as the owner of an industrial engraving shop that was in Park Ridge, Ill. 
The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (75%); HISTORY (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (69%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: GERBER, DR. SUSAN EVE; SASSO, DR. ANTHONY THOMAS LO 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



180 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3473 words

HEADLINE: The Power Of Choice 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
AT sparsely attended committee hearings in the State House this spring, senators concerned about the blackouts rolling through California peppered state regulators with questions about electric power. 
 Their worries came down to a few simple points: Will there be shortages here? Will there be soaring prices? Will the lights stay on? 
 Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos, chairman of the state Republican Party, was persistent. 
"Kyrillos asked, 'Is there anything we should be worried about, is there anything on the radar screen?' " said William Potter, an environmental lawyer who attended the hearings.
The worries were understandable. In 1999, New Jersey followed California into the uncharted territory of electric power deregulation, and for several months the legislators had been reading about the shortages and soaring prices in the nation's most populous state. Visions of California-style blackouts and hefty electric bills clearly troubled committee members. 
Herbert H. Tate, the unflappable chairman of the Board of Public Utilities, reassured them that New Jersey's regulators had it all under control. There was plenty of power, and there would be no shortages, he said. New Jersey is not California.
But there was one problem. 
To protect utilities during the difficult transition to deregulation, the state had promised to allow the power companies to recoup certain losses they sustained. Senator Kyrillos and other committee members asked Mr. Tate to estimate what New Jersey consumers would have to pay when the transition ended in August 2003.
It was still impossible to say for sure, Mr. Tate said. But his best estimate was that the losses could run close to $1.8 billion.
"The senators sat around, trying to pick their jaws up off the floor," said Mr. Potter. "The utilities are already prepared to file for massive rate increases."
Fluctuating energy prices could certainly affect how much the losses actually total. Each utility company will pass along its deferred costs to its own customers rather than pooling them, according to the Board of Public Utilities, but questions like the time period for repayment of the losses have yet to be worked out. 
By all accounts, New Jersey has handled the deregulation of its electric power system more smoothly than most other states. There have been no rolling blackouts, rates have been stable, and people have even received price cuts. The state is part of a regional electric grid that experts consider to be the strongest in the country; unlike many other regions, the grid requires a hefty power reserve as a hedge against blackouts like those that have plagued California.
But the transition has not been problem-free. Energy experts and some state officials feel that while New Jersey has been able to handle its energy supply better than other states, it still faces many of the same difficulties: Increasing costs driven by rising natural gas prices, lack of choices for customers and uncertainty about future rates.
"New Jersey has created the same sort of problems that most states have," said Richard S. Rosen, executive vice president of the Tellus Group, a Boston-based energy consulting firm. "The economics just don't work out. Competitors cannot afford to get into the market for smaller consumers."
Dr. Rosen, whose firm has done consulting for states including Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts, said deregulating markets without introducing viable competition could lead to problems when government-imposed rate caps are removed.
"The problem is, what happens when the transition is over?" he said. "The prices are likely to shoot up much more than anyone anticipated."
Dr. Rosen's prediction is disputed by many people responsible for New Jersey's deregulation. Senator Kyrillos, a Republican from Middletown, said the state Board of Public Utilities would be able to arrange the repayment of losses sustained during deregulation so that consumers would not face soaring electric bills when rate caps come off in August 2003.
"I was comfortable with what I heard from President Tate with regard to that issue this spring," he said. "There would not be a rate shock." 
Mr. Tate, who left the Board of Public Utilities on March 30 to become a consultant and a professor at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, also said massive price increases were extremely unlikely. But Mr. Tate acknowledged that consumers probably would see some increase in their bills.
"The board has the tools to make sure that any rate increases after transition would be under double digits," Mr. Tate said. "We have the tools to prevent rate shock."
Of course, one person's reasonable increase is another's shock. And even the fact that people are talking publicly about skyrocketing prices is a departure from the optimistic projections that surrounded New Jersey's efforts to end electricity regulation in the late 1990's. At the time, proponents cited the successful deregulation of the telecommunications industry, with increasing services and decreasing prices, as an example of what would happen after utilities were released from government oversight. 
Most predicted similar results for the electric power system.
"There was a movement that deregulation would provide benefits to consumers -- better options, lower rates, technological advances," said Blossom A. Peretz, the state's ratepayer advocate.
Ms. Peretz, who is the state official responsible for protecting utility customers, said the deregulation of electric power seemed to be the next step in a free-market philosophy that had swept the airlines, communications and the natural gas industries.
"I call it an evolution, not a revolution," she said.
In New Jersey, the evolution began after business groups complaining about the state's high energy prices began to agitate for ways to lower rates. 
"The rates for electricity were a significant disincentive for any manufacturing located in New Jersey," said Richard H. Bagger, chairman of the state Assembly Appropriations Committee and an executive with the Pfizer Corporation. 
By the mid-1990's, New Jersey's electric rates were 50 percent higher than the national average and among the highest in the nation. This was not solely the fault of state regulation, or the utilities. New Jersey has significant disadvantages for cheap energy production: it has no large dams to provide hydroelectric power; there are no big coal deposits; the state has a dense population with a constant demand for electric power.
The State Legislature took a series of actions to try to correct the problem, at least for large industrial users.
The first step, so-called flex rates, allowed regulators at the Board of Public Utilities to reduce electric rates for large companies. In 1995, the Legislature passed flex-rate rules, which allowed the board to change rates case by case. In a separate step, legislators eliminated the 13 percent energy tax that had long been imposed on electric power and replaced it with the state's 6 percent sales tax.
The steps were well received by business, but many felt they did not go far enough. 
"We had the fourth highest rates in the nation, and we had no way to shop for a competitive supply," said Hal Bozarth, executive director of the New Jersey Chemical Council, whose group represents 100 companies in New Jersey. "We needed to open up the marketplace."
In fact, Federal regulators had already changed the national rules to allow for electricity deregulation in the early 1990's, and other states were already examining deregulation. But initially, New Jersey's politically powerful utility companies were dubious.
"All you had was thin-air rhetoric, without a lot of scholarship," said Alfred C. Koeppe, president and chief operating officer of Public Service Electric & Gas, the state's largest utility.
However, as Mr. Koeppe said in a recent interview, "you had that bow wave from the telecom deregulation moving through the state. Big business clearly saw deregulation and restructuring as a solution to business problems." 
After a year of committee meetings and negotiation, the Legislature passed the Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act in February 1999. 
The complex, 100-page law officially ended the regulation of electric markets in August 1999, but it capped rates for four years and gave customers automatic rate reductions of at least 10 percent during the four years. After that, legislators believed, free competition among providers would lead to better service and better prices.
Proponents hoped that the open market would attract new electric companies to New Jersey. It was a basic law of economics: more players would lead to lower prices and technological innovation.
At first, it seemed to work. 
Ray Notaro is the site manager of the Huntsman Polyurethanes plant in West Deptford. "In the first year of deregulation, we were able to save a good amount of money, around $30,000, through competitive pricing," he said. 
Some businesses, like Mr. Notaro's, contracted directly with electric suppliers. Others formed buyers' groups and purchased electricity in large blocks. Mr. Bozarth's chemical industry group gathered 60 companies to bid for 360 megawatts of energy, roughly the output of a midsize generating station. He said that over six months, they were able to save nearly $20 million in electricity costs.
Companies saved money by contracting with power generators whose plants are attached to the gigantic electric grid that runs from Washington, D.C., to the New York State border. This electric grid -- called the PJM system -- includes most of the independent power generators and the power utilities in the mid-Atlantic states. The PJM system, which is administered by an independent operator regulated by the federal government, allows the generators to trade electricity throughout the region.
Under the old, regulated system, utilities traded electric power in the PJM system and sold it to their customers. But deregulation created an open wholesale market for the PJM grid. Under the new system, groups of companies could also buy power on the wholesale market, either for to use themselves use or to resell to consumers. They could take advantage of the excess power generated in the PJM system, and buy it at a cheaper price. 
But about a year ago, the price of natural gas, one of the prime fuels for electric generators, shot up, helping drive up the wholesale price of electricity. 
Soon, independent buyers like Mr. Notaro found they could buy electricity cheaper at their old utilities -- many of which had long-term contracts to buy their electric power. In the last six months, competition for business customers has all but dried up.
"We are not saving money anymore," said Mr. Notaro. "We are back with P.S.E.&G., which was our original supplier."
Mr. Bozarth said competing electric generators could not match the price of utilities once the price of electricity shot up last year. He said the contracts arranged for the members of his group, which saved its $20 million during those six months lst year, evaporated with the rising market. Despite the initial drop in electric rates after the deregulation bill passed in 1999, the state is now back where it started in the competition for electric prices.
"New Jersey is still not competitive," Mr. Bozarth said. "Our rates are still 50 percent higher than the rest of the nation. And we are fourth highest in the nation, still, even after the reduction."
Competition for residential customers followed a similar path. After deregulation, several competing companies entered the New Jersey market looking for customers. But as the price of electricity rose, most could not compete.
"The monopoly utility has a big advantage over any competitor," said Ms. Peretz. "They are the brand name, they have the service territory."
What the established utilities also had was long-term contracts with power generators, ensuring a supply of electric power at low prices, particularly compared with the soaring wholesale market. This insulated the utilities from the market rise, and allowed them to undercut new competitors.
"The price of natural gas increased right at the time you expected to see competition," said Mr. Koeppe of PSE&G. Competitors were unable to buy wholesale electricity cheaper than the utility could supply it.
And if the utilities' cheaper contracts were not enough of a hurdle, there was the system state legislators established to deregulate New Jersey's electric power. John E. Kaufman, a Pennsylvania-based energy consultant, said New Jersey legislators capped the amount utilities could charge for power generation in an attempt to protect customers during deregulation.
The well-meaning gesture had unintended consequences when the price of wholesale electric power shot up last year.
"If the amount P.S.E.&G. can charge for electricity is capped at 4.5 cents an hour, and I can only buy power at 6 cents, I can't compete," Mr. Kaufman said. "As the wholesale rate for electric power goes above the capped rates, it basically freezes out competition."
And the automatic price cut, intended as an immediate benefit to those who did not have the time or sophistication to shop for power, also helped drive down prices and further discourage competitors from entering the market. 
John Holtz, spokesman for the Green Mountain Energy Company, which came into New Jersey in March 2000, said several independent power companies entered the the state after deregulation, but since the increase in wholesale power prices only his and one other remain. Green Mountain Energy, based in Austin, Tex., is less vulnerable to market increases because the company's strategy is to offer electric power from environmentally friendly sources, like wind farms, and its customers are typically willing to pay slightly more for electricity. 
But Mr. Holtz said New Jersey's deregulation rules had made it difficult for his company to make inroads in the state. According to the ratepayer advocate's office, fewer than 2 percent of New Jersey residents buy their electric power from a nonutility generator.
New Power, which entered New Jersey last year, has not left the state but is not seeking any new customers here for a variety of reasons related to the cost of obtaining wholesale electric power in the region, according to a company spokesman. Marc E. Manly, general counsel for New Power Holdings, said: "Whenever competition can take root, customers benefit through lower prices and efficiency. We would love to see it happen, but the regulators have got to get the rules right and let us compete."
Independent energy companies' first complaint was about the public education campaign that accompanied electric deregulation. Mr. Holtz said that after deregulation New Jersey started an advertising campaign telling customers they could "do nothing and save 15 percent." Other ads warned customers against signing up with unscrupulous companies seeking to defraud them on energy bills. As a result, he said, most customers did not think about shopping for electric power.
At the same time, in an attempt to protect customers from fly-by-night electricity producers, New Jersey set up rules requiring customers to notify companies in writing that they wanted to switch suppliers. Mr. Holtz said the rule made things much more difficult for legitimate companies.
"It takes six Green Mountain employees to sign up one New Jersey customer," he said. "Our cost for signing up a single customer is 84 percent higher on P.S.E.&G.'s side of the Delaware."
The proof is in the numbers, Mr. Holtz said. He said 708,000 residential customers in Pennsylvania have switched electric suppliers since that state deregulated. In New Jersey, 35,000 have switched.
Legislators acknowledge that competition has not been viable for the residential market, but they defend the structure of the law. Mr. Bagger and others involved in the deregulation bill say that the items that people criticize -- rate caps, allowing utilities to maintain long-term contracts with power suppliers -- are also those that protected New Jersey from California-style rate spikes and shortages.
"We are not California for some very important reasons," Mr. Bagger said.
Still, legislators have already begun to take steps to increase competition. For example, Senator Peter A. Inverso, a Republican from Hamilton, has proposed a change in the law to allow customers to switch electric suppliers over the telephone.
"The expectation was that by 2003 there would be sufficient competition to keep rates down," Mr. Bagger said. "If competition is not robust by 2003, the Legislature might need to step in and take a look at the threshold."
There is some debate over whether the current lack of competition is a cause for concern. Mr. Koeppe of P.S.E.&G. believes that increased competition will come as costs of electricity and natural gas stabilize during the next year or two. Until then, he said, consumers are already benefiting from lower prices.
Consumer advocates and some business groups are concerned about what will happen when rate caps come off in the summer of 2003.
"We have unregulated monopolies in far too many instances," said John Guinan, staff attorney with the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group.
As Mr. Tate reminded Senate committee members last spring, the state promised to protect utilities against any losses they suffered during the deregulation transition from the summer of 1999 to the summer of 2003. Independent companies like Green Mountain do not have the same protection.
UTILITIES are expected to have widely differing losses. P.S.E.&G., for example, is not expected to have large costs because its parent company chose to keep its power-generating stations after the deregulation bill passed. As a result, P.S.E.&G. was able to buy power from its sister company relatively cheaply under long-term contracts. Mr. Koeppe estimated that his company's losses, known as deferred costs, would be in the neighborhood of $100 million.
But GPU, which owns Jersey Central Power and Light, is in a different situation. That company sold its generating plants after deregulation, and so it was forced to buy electric power on the wholesale market. The company could not pass its rising costs along to consumers because of the rate cap.
Jeff Dennard, a spokesman for GPU, said the company had sustained about $319 million in deferred costs by the end of May. He said the company could not estimate how much the amount would total by the time the rate caps ended in August 2003.
"We generally don't engage in projections because it involves speculation regarding energy prices," he said.
Whatever the final amount, Mr. Tate said the Board of Public Utilities had the power to structure the repayment to avoid a huge increase in customers' bills. It is hard to say how much any given person might be affected because that depends on which utility the customer does business with, how much the utility loses in the next two years, and over how long a period the debt will be repaid.
The bill will come due in two years. At the same time, electric generators are scheduled to be freed from the caps that have restrained prices since the deregulation began. What will happen then is anyone's guess, but consultants like Mr. Kaufman said there was a good chance that energy bills would increase in the short term.
"A lot of the large industrial customers are fearful of what is going to happen and are looking for ways to protect themselves," he said.
Energy experts say the deciding factor could be the amount of generation that is added to the electric grid in the next four to five years. Steven Gable, president of the energy consultants Gable Associates, said nearly 7,000 megawatts of additional electric generation was scheduled to come on line this year and next. That is a substantial addition to an electric grid with a 50,000 megawatt capacity.
Many experts, such as P.S.E.&G.'s Mr. Koeppe, believe that if enough power comes on line before the rate caps come off, that will inevitably lead to reduced prices and increased competition.
But others worry that without companies to sell the power to consumers, the effect will be minimal.
"If we have real new technology and new competition, there will be benefits to the consumer," Ms. Peretz said. "Right now there is no competition."
Ms. Peretz said the lack of competition was partly the result of market forces, but also an unforeseen result of the system established by the state legislators. She said legislators "have to revisit the act that deregulated the marketplace."
"The wholesale market went awry and this kind of threw a big roadblock into energy deregulation," she said. "There has to be a creative balance between the utilities and the competitors. It is a balance that has to be achieved through reasoned regulation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Wanderlan P. Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Blossom A. Peretz, the state ratepayer advocate, right. Herbert H. Tate, above right, head of the state Board of Public Utilities. P.S.E.&G. has held on to its power plants like the one in Ridgefield. At top, John Holtz of Green Mountain Energy, one of two independent providers in the state, says regulations have made competition difficult. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times); (Wanderlan P. Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (56%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



181 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Surplus Magic: It Works Both Ways

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NO one ever quite figured out why the strong economy of the 1990's generated so much more tax revenue than anticipated, wiping out the federal budget deficit and creating substantial surpluses.
 So it should not be surprising that no one has a good handle on what the slumping economy today may do to the fiscal outlook. 
 The issue is front and center again because both Democrats and Republicans have already allocated much of the projected surplus to a variety of uses. Should it be smaller than expected, something would have to give among three main policy goals: cutting taxes; increasing spending on education, health care and the military; and paying off the national debt. It would also leave little money to strengthen Social Security over the long run. So far, there is little evidence that the nation is falling back into a fiscal abyss. Even if the surplus is smaller than anticipated, the two parties seem intent on living up to their pledge to use excess Social Security revenue to pay off the $3 trillion in government debt held by the public. 
But the economic slowdown this year has forced a re-examination of the presumption that the projected surpluses are as good as money in the bank. One of the most detailed -- and sobering -- studies of the interplay between economic trends and the fiscal outlook comes from Goldman, Sachs.
Two trends provided the foundation for a rosier budget outlook, said William C. Dudley, the chief domestic economist at the firm. One was a surge in tax revenue, greater than expected even at a time of strong economic growth. The other was an improvement in the nation's long-term economic potential. Both now seem to be going into reverse, he said.
One big source of additional tax revenue in recent years has been strong corporate profits, which are taxed at higher rates than individual incomes and have been making up a growing share of the total tax base. But in the last several months, corporate profits -- and revenue from taxation of them -- have plummeted. 
The pretax profit share of gross domestic product will fall to 8.4 percent this year from 9.5 percent last year, Mr. Dudley projected, implying a substantial drop in corporate income tax revenue.
Moreover, individual income tax receipts could also be under pressure because of the end of the bull market on Wall Street, he said.
Mr. Dudley pointed to the experience of California. It estimated recently that the exercise of stock options had contributed more than $80 billion to personal income in the state last year, up from $50 billion in 1999. Now the state is assuming that income from options will fall back at least to its 1999 level.
Extrapolating from that, Mr. Dudley calculated that the drop in options income nationwide could shave as much as $40 billion off federal income tax receipts next year.
Capital gains revenue is also likely to tail off, he said. The stock market is now down more than 20 percent from its peak last year, he said, yet the Congressional Budget Office is estimating a falloff in capital gains revenue of only 3 percent next year, to about $125 billion. A more realistic estimate, Mr. Dudley said, is $98 billion, the level of capital gains receipts in 1999, when the market was roughly where it is now.
Over all, Mr. Dudley estimated that tax receipts could fall short of projections next year by $50 billion to $75 billion -- enough to put a crimp in the plans of both parties for more spending, maybe even enough to wipe out the available surplus for next year.
SUCH a shortfall could set off a political storm -- Democrats are already building a case that the tax cut President Bush signed into law last month will lead to renewed budget deficits -- but the real question is what happens over the next decade or so.
Mr. Dudley said predictions that productivity gains would remain high -- and therefore that growth would return to historically robust levels once this cyclical downturn ended -- might be overly optimistic.
The analysis by Goldman suggests that the economy is capable of a long-term noninflationary growth rate of about 3 percent a year, three-tenths of a percentage point lower than the growth rate assumed by the budget office in developing its 10-year surplus projections. If Goldman's figures are correct, Mr. Dudley said, the surplus would come in $750 billion lower than the budget office's projection.
After accounting for Mr. Bush's tax cut and the bipartisan agreement to put the Social Security portion of the surplus off limits, there is no more than $1 trillion of the 10-year surplus projection of $5.6 trillion still available. If Mr. Dudley's calculations are right, then the surplus will have all but disappeared.
Easy come, easy go.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows current estimated federal budget surpluses. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (85%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



182 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Betty Abebe, Geoffrey Chapin

 BODY:
Bethlehem Abebe, a daughter of Freweini Abebe and Dr. Loolseged Abebe of New York, was married yesterday to Geoffrey Stark Chapin, the son of Diane and Peter Chapin of Charlottesville, Va. The Rev. James G. Amos performed a Lutheran ceremony that combined Ethiopian and Eritrean traditions at the Gustavus Adolphus Lutheran Church in New York. 
The couple, both 27, graduated from Williams College, where they met.
 The bride, who is known as Betty, is a medical student at Temple University in Philadelphia. Her father is a hematopathologist and the director of blood bank and transfusion services at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center in New York. Her mother manages the budget for the communications office of the United Nations Development Program. 
 The bridegroom is studying for a master's degree in public policy and an M.B.A. through a joint program of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His father, who is retired, was the managing director of the Boston office of Deutsche Bank Securities.
The couple had met casually a couple of times at Williams but had their first real conversation in December 1995, when Mr. Chapin sat beside Ms. Abebe at a long table in the Purple Pub, one of two student bars on campus. 
"I was celebrating the end of exams," recalled Mr. Chapin, who was then finishing the first semester of his senior year. "I just happened to be looking around the room and a thought popped into my head that I would not meet my future bride at Williams. 
"Then I saw Betty," he continued. "There was an unoccupied seat next to her, so I thought I'd go talk to her."
The two ended up talking until closing time. After the winter break, Mr. Chapin said he "summoned up the courage" to call Ms. Abebe to ask her out to dinner. 
"I'd never asked anyone out to dinner before," Mr. Chapin said. "In college you don't usually ask people out to dinner. You just hang out." Ms. Abebe agreed to have dinner, but with a casualness, Mr. Chapin recalled, "that revealed to me that she had not shared my epiphany at the pub in December." 
But they continued to see one another, and their relationship grew. It came to a crossroads just before graduation, in June, when Mr. Chapin had a job offer in Boston.
"We asked ourselves, What are we doing now, Where are we going now?" Ms. Abebe said, adding that she had offers to teach chemistry in New York or do epidemiological research in Boston. 
She chose research. "I could have stayed in New York, where I had friends," said Ms. Abebe, who later decided to go to medical school. "But I went to Boston because I thought it was worth the risk."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); PATHOLOGY (71%); BLOOD BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: ABEBE, BETHLEHEM; CHAPIN, GEOFFREY STARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



183 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK BOOKSHELF/HISTORY; 
Bronx Loyalists, Manhattan Luminaries

 BODY:
NAMING NEW YORK:
Manhattan Places and How They Got Their Names
By Sanna Feirstein
New York University Press
($45, hardcover; $16.95, paperback)
Streets and public areas of Manhattan have acquired names for various reasons since shortly after the Dutch established a settlement on the southern tip of the island in the early 17th century. . . .

Little Italy
 Lieutenant Petrosino Square. Named in 1987 for Lieutenant Joseph Petrosino, a police officer who, when he joined the force in 1883, was the city's shortest officer at 5-foot-3. Disguised as a tunnel worker, a blind beggar and a gangster, he infiltrated and exposed the criminal gangs that preyed on Italian immigrants. 
 Promoted to detective, he was assigned to uncover anarchists, and warned President McKinley of the danger to his life. Petrosino's warnings were ignored and McKinley was assassinated in 1901. Working in Italy as part of an effort to stamp out the American-Italian mafia connection, Petrosino was shot to death in Palermo in 1909.

SoHo
Macdougal Street. For General Alexander MacDougal, 1733-1786, a founder of the Sons of Liberty, a group of working-class men active in resisting British policies in the colonies before the Revolution. MacDougal went on to become the first president of the Bank of New York and a state senator.

Gramercy, Union Square and Chelsea
Union Square. Before the implementation of the 1811 Commissioners' Plan to lay out Manhattan Island in a grid form, the Bowery and Broadway crossed here at an irregular angle. The new streets and avenues dictated by the grid plan produced an awkward intersection here. The solution was to leave a public plaza, today's Union Square, named for the union of these thoroughfares. The square has been a traditional rallying place for labor and political protests.

Upper East Side
Henderson Place. This gemlike grouping of rowhouses tucked just off East 86th Street and East End Avenue was developed between 1881 and 1882 by merchant John C. Henderson. Henderson used the houses as rental properties and gave the cul-de-sac his name.

BRONX ACCENT:
A Literary and Pictorial History of the Borough
By Lloyd Ultan and Barbara Unger
Rutgers University Press
($32, hardcover)
While the established landed gentry, like those portrayed by James Fenimore Cooper, presided over the colonial government, economy and society, most residents of the area to become the Bronx were hard-working farmers who barely eked out a living raising flax for the linen market, sheep for the woolens trade, wheat to be made into flour and apples to be pressed into cider.
Discontent with British rule was growing. The First Continental Congress imposed an embargo on the exporting and importing of specific items to and from Britain in reaction to the British Parliament's passage of the Intolerable Acts following the Boston Tea Party. The town of Westchester had been granted privileges in a royal charter and its residents were reluctant to sacrifice them. They also thought that the American retaliatory measures went too far and were highly destructive to the local farmers.
For these reasons, many Westchester residents tended to support the British. Samuel Seabury, the Anglican rector in the town of Westchester, wrote a pamphlet, effectively using biting ridicule to make points in support of the farmers against the actions of the Congress.
He disguised his identity, posing as a simple farmer residing in the town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); POLITICS (69%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); IMPORT TRADE (63%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (63%); RENTAL PROPERTY (61%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: FEIRSTEIN, SANNA; UNGER, BARBARA; ULTAN, LLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ITALY (77%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: NAMING NEW YORK (BOOK); BRONX ACCENT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



184 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MURRAY HILL; 
Debating Whether Plants With a Long Past Have a Future

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
Inspired by the Tate Modern in London and the Power Plant complex in the Inner Harbor of Baltimore, some urban planners are hoping that a pair of 100-year-old power plants near the United Nations will be renovated as part of a revitalized East Side waterfront. But a developer, which has recently contracted to buy the site, has other plans.
 Consolidated Edison owns the plants, which sit in a nine-acre industrial park along First Avenue between 35th and 41st Streets. FSM East River Associates, a development partnership of Fisher Brothers and Sheldon H. Solow, contracted to buy the site for $680 million last year. FSM wants to demolish the buildings and put up a mixed-use complex with as many as 6,000 new residences. 
 The Municipal Art Society, with the support of some preservationists and elected officials, is urging the developer to consider renovating one or both of the plants, rather than taking them down.
"Good planning does not necessarily start with a clean slate," said Frank E. Sanchis III, the society's executive director. "These spaces offer soaring interiors and a sense of place."
Built as coal-burning producers of electricity in 1901, the plants have been altered since then and today provide steam for heating and cooling offices. The structures, built of red and yellow brick, have kept their classical proportions, including a series of arched windows that rise nearly four stories.
The planners say their effort is inspired by London's Tate Modern museum, which opened in last year in an abandoned power station along the Thames River, and the Power Plant in Baltimore, an 1895 plant that is now a shopping mall.
"Anything that is not a high-density money maker is more palatable to the neighborhood," said Edan Unterman, president of the East Midtown Coalition for Sensible Development, an umbrella group formed to influence the site's design.
The developers recently commissioned architects to create a master plan for the site that does not include the power plants.
"No final decisions have been made," said Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for the developer, who added that the plants "may very well take up space that could be put to better use in this community."
Still, advocates of renovating the plants are keeping their fingers crossed.
"We're not trying to second-guess the developers," said Kent L. Barwick, the society's president. "But this could be a new Rockefeller Center." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Preservationists have their eye on these power plants, which were built in 1901 and now help heat and cool offices. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%) CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK; EAST MIDTOWN COALITION FOR SENSIBLE DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: LEE, DENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



185 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
I.O.C. Should Reject China for 2008

BYLINE:  By TOM LANTOS; Tom Lantos is a member of the House of Representatives from California and the ranking Democrat on the House International Relations Committee.

 BODY:
On Friday, delegates of the International Olympic Committee will assemble in Moscow to vote to determine which city -- Toronto, Paris or Beijing -- will have the privilege of being host to the 2008 Summer Games. China's leaders have argued that politics should not taint the delegates' deliberations and that each finalist should be subject only to technical review to determine which city has the best sports facilities, transportation systems, hotels and other material resources needed to carry out a successful Olympics.
 But turning a blind eye to the egregious human rights violations taking place every day in China does not remove politics from the Olympics -- it permits an authoritarian regime to exploit the Games to prop up its faltering legitimacy by gaining an important symbol of acceptance from the international community. The I.O.C. should reject China's bid and protect the Olympic ideal. 
 The Olympics are first and foremost about sports -- athletes from around the world uniting in their love of the game and their commitment to free and fair competition. But human rights and human dignity are also central to the spirit of the Olympics. The Olympic charter makes clear that "Olympism" includes "respect for universal fundamental ethical principles" and the "preservation of human dignity."
Awarding the Games to Beijing will not contribute to peace or human dignity. In February, the I.O.C. evaluation committee got a preview of the heavy-handed tactics that the Chinese government will use to stage-manage the Olympics. During the visit, The New York Times reported that Chinese officials placed known critics of the government and their families under more surveillance and warned them not to speak out while inspectors from the I.O.C. were visiting. The government also detained vagrants and street children to keep them out of sight of the evaluation committee. In a separate event related to China's Olympic bid, the mayor of Beijing, Liu Qi, informed a rally in the city that in preparation for the Games the government would, as reported last September in The Age of Melbourne, Australia, "resolutely smash and crack down on Falun Gong and other evil cults."
Desperate to win international approval, Chinese authorities argue that the human rights situation in China is improving. But the State Department's annual human rights report concluded just the opposite, stating that during the past year the Chinese government's record "worsened" as it committed "numerous serious abuses," from raiding churches, to jailing Internet entrepreneurs, to silencing democratic activists, to cracking down on the Falun Gong.
Beijing's behavior last April only confirmed this conclusion. In detaining 24 crew members of an American military plane for 10 days, the Chinese flouted all diplomatic protocols and norms of international behavior. Americans gained valuable insight into the true nature of the regime during this time. It reminded us that a government that routinely violates the human rights of its citizens naturally treats foreigners with the same disrespect. Can we expect the same abuse when tens of thousands of athletes and fans descend on Beijing for the 2008 Games?
During the 1930's, Olympic officials faced a similar decision: should they overlook Nazi Germany's human rights abuses and grant the resurgent economic power its bid for the 1936 Games? They did, and the 1936 Olympics were exploited to maximum effect by Hitler, who put on a dazzling show designed to fool other countries into believing that Nazi Germany was a model world citizen. Headlines from The New York Times of Aug. 16, 1936, tell it all: "Olympics leave glow of pride in the Reich," "A piece of perfect German pageantry" and "Germans themselves seem to have taken lessons to heart and visitors gain a good impression." The rest is history we dare not forget.
I look forward to the day when we can all support a proposal for China to be host to the Olympic Games at a time when the Chinese people openly enjoy the tolerance and freedoms espoused by the high ideals of the Olympic tradition. China is one of the world's great civilizations, rich in history and culture. Its people are among the most dynamic, its athletes among the most talented. But, unfortunately, its government is among the most tyrannical. China should earn the Games not because of its ability to build world-class sports sites and manage a massive event, but by virtue of its commitment to upholding the Olympic ideal.
The I.O.C. delegates have a responsibility that is spelled out in the Olympic charter to "oppose any political or commercial abuse of sport and athletes" and "place sport at the service of humanity." A vote by the delegates in favor of Beijing would abrogate these critical I.O.C. responsibilities by allowing a brutal authoritarian regime to bask in the reflected glory of the Olympics.
That's why I've joined Rep. Christopher Cox, a California Republican, in sponsoring a resolution addressed to the I.O.C. expressing the view of Congress that the Olympic Games in the year 2008 should not be held in Beijing. This resolution was overwhelmingly approved by the House International Relations Committee on a strong bipartisan vote, and can be brought up any time for a vote in the full House of Representatives. I call on the Republican leadership of the House to schedule a vote on the Lantos-Cox resolution before the I.O.C. votes on Friday.
In service of the Olympic ideal, I sincerely hope that the I.O.C. will reject China's bid to hold the Games. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CULTS & SECTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ETHICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); RELIGION (60%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (52%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



186 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Budget Battle in Albany 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Despite the assertion by Herman D. Farrell Jr., chairman of the Assembly's Ways and Means Committee (letter, July 5), responsibility for the late New York State budget rests with the failure of the Assembly's Democratic leadership to negotiate in public, not with spending differences over a single item. 
 On eight occasions, Senator Joseph L. Bruno and I attempted to convene joint budget meetings, but Assembly Democrats refused to take part in these public forums. 
Instead, they insist on a secretive "three men in a room" process that has resulted in late budgets for 17 straight years. 
Of course, legitimate differences exist. I believe, for example, that the Assembly Democrats' plan to increase spending by more than 9 percent is reckless considering the current uncertainty in the economy.
We could begin resolving our differences today if Speaker Sheldon Silver would agree to negotiate the budget in public.

JOHN J. FASO
Minority Leader
New York State Assembly
Albany, July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: FASO, JOHN J (ASSEMBLYMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



187 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1018 words

PERSON: Asher B. Edelman 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
An Outsider Takes On the Swiss

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
ASHER B. EDELMAN has long thought of himself as an activist investor who buys stakes in undervalued companies, hoping to make them more efficient and valuable. But Mr. Edelman's most recent target, a venerable and sleepy Swiss paper company, has thrust him into a struggle for change in Swiss banking and business.
 Swiss family companies have faced increased pressure from outside shareholders to perform more profitably or be taken over. Big Swiss companies like the drug maker Roche Holding, the travel group Kuoni Reisen and the inspection company Societe Generale de Surveillance have come under assault from outsiders trying to wrest control. And the ways that companies arbitrarily protect themselves is a subject of hot debate. 
 Starting in 1997, Mr. Edelman, the corporate raider who once terrorized big American companies like Burlington Industries, Lucky Stores and the Fruehauf Corporation, gradually acquired 28 percent of Baumgartner Papiers, a company near Lausanne with interests in manufacturing and distributing paper, packaging and cigarette filters. To stop him, Baumgartner's principal shareholders, led by Banque Cantonale Vaudoise of Lausanne, used a clause in the company bylaws to cap his voting rights at 3 percent. Baumgartner also cited Swiss takeover rules that it said required Mr. Edelman to make a bid for all Baumgartner shares if he acquired more than 33.3 percent. Mr. Edelman appealed to the Swiss Banking Commission, an oversight body, contending that he should be exempt from the full-bid rule, given the cap set by Baumgartner on his voting rights. The commission agreed, but Baumgartner won a round last week when the Swiss Supreme Court overturned the commission's decision.
Mr. Edelman's unusual background has added intrigue to this particular takeover fight. He is, on the one hand, a financier who by his own count has gone after more than 40 companies and once taught a takeover investing class at Columbia Business School called "Corporate Raiding: The Art of War." On the other hand, he is a cultured expatriate, a patron of the arts who operated a museum in Lausanne in the mid-1990's.
Last month, Mr. Edelman, whose energy and stylish haircut belie his 61 years, intensified the struggle by teaming up with Malmenayde, a privately owned French paper company, and Hansa, a Swiss investment group, to offer $80 million cash for Baumgartner -- 1,100 Swiss francs per share, about $614, or a 20 percent premium over Baumgartner's stock at the time. (The shares now trade at 1,055 Swiss francs.)
Jacques Baumgartner, 60, the chairman of Baumgartner and a grandson of the founder, rejected the bid, calling Mr. Edelman "not an investor, but a raider."
As Mr. Edelman sees it, Baumgartner encapsulates much of what is wrong with Swiss companies that are allowed to grow in walled gardens. Baumgartner's balance sheet masks hidden reserves, mainly in undervalued real estate, that Viktor Knapp, an analyst at GSC Research in Dusseldorf, estimates to be worth as much as 349.5 million Swiss francs, about $195 million, or 2.68 Swiss francs for each of Baumgartner's 130,000 outstanding shares. And Baumgartner underperforms woefully. Last year, its 1,100 employees produced net earnings of 5 million Swiss francs, about $2.8 million, on revenue of 356 million Swiss francs; Malmenayde, by contrast, generated the same earnings on revenue of 244 million Swiss francs, with a work force of 140.
"Malmenayde earns more money on the same amount of people," Mr. Edelman said in a recent conversation in his Paris office.
Mr. Edelman, the son of a New York businessman who later turned to real estate investing, went into investment banking after he graduated from Bard College. In the 1960's, he honed his skills at Carter Berlind Potoma & Weill, the firm started by Sanford I. Weill and others, mastering its formula of buying distressed companies, pruning costs and keeping the best parts. After gaining experience in Europe with Carter Berlind, Mr. Edelman set himself up in business, emerging in the 1980's as one of America's best-known takeover investors.
But he is far from all business and numbers. An enthusiastic collector of contemporary artists like Jasper Johns and Willem de Kooning since the 1950's, he folded up his business in 1988 to move to Lausanne and open a museum of contemporary art, sponsoring retrospectives of, among others, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Mapplethorpe. In recent years, he has developed an interest in ancient Greek and Roman artifacts and African and Oceanic art.
Twice divorced and with four children, Mr. Edelman plans to marry again later this month at a ceremony in Palau in the South Pacific, where he often sails in search of local artifacts. In 1995, he closed the Lausanne museum and sold part of his collection to generate the capital he needed to go back into business.
Not everything Mr. Edelman touches succeeds as well as he would like. Earlier this year, for example, he sold a stake he had acquired in Societe de Louvre, the French hotel and luxury goods conglomerate owned and managed by the Taittinger family of Champagne fame, after having failed to gain control of the company. Though he stumbled over the Taittinger clan's resistance, Mr. Edelman says it was hardly a loss. He would not say how much he netted, but he acquired part of his Louvre stake for as little as 20 euros a share, about $17, and sold at 65.
Mr. Edelman said his foe in the Baumgartner fight was not the family but Banque Cantonale, which controls about 17 percent of the voting rights. Christian Bohner, the bank's economic adviser, called Mr. Edelman's effort a guise to get at Baumgartner's property holdings.
Mr. Edelman's industrial partners in the hostile bid reject such accusations. Alain and Stanislas Malmenayde, cousins who own and manage Malmenayde, said they saw a smooth strategic fit with Baumgartner. And their view of Mr. Edelman, whom they met last year through an investment bank, is clear. "He's a strategic thinker, a good financier; we are industrialists," Stanislas Malmenayde said. "He's very open, charming, human, polished."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Asher B. Edelman, an American takeover investor who is trying to buy Baumgartner Papiers, a Swiss paper company, misstated the per-share equivalent of an estimated 349.5 million Swiss francs in Baumgartner reserves not reflected on the company's balance sheet. It is 2,688 Swiss francs per share, not 2.68. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Asher B. Edelman, a financier who has gone after more than 40 companies in his career, has also been a collector of art, like the sculpture by Picasso on display in his Paris office in 1996. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); APPEALS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) PAPER AND PULP; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (91%); BANQUE CANTONALE VAUDOISE (69%); FRENCH PAPER CO (63%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BAUMGARTNER PAPIERS 

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (91%); BCVN (SWX) (69%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS314999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS TEXTILE PRODUCT MILLS (56%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); SIC2299 TEXTILE GOODS, NEC (56%); SIC2231 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, WOOL (56%)

EDELMAN, ASHER; TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) VAUD, SWITZERLAND (90%) SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



188 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3645 words

HEADLINE: Thriving on Bursting Bubbles 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

DATELINE: SEARS POINT, Calif. 

 BODY:
MARC COHODES, the highest-profile short-seller on Wall Street, is getting bored.
 On a warm Sunday in June, the Nascar Dodge/Save Mart 350 here has settled into routine, if the jousting of 750-horsepower cars in the hills of Sonoma County can be called routine. In a trackside tent, Mr. Cohodes and his 14-year-old son, Max, both avid Nascar fans, cheer for Jimmy Spencer in car 26. But Mr. Spencer lags far behind the leaders. 
 "Let's go," Mr. Cohodes says. 
He slips Max, who has cerebral palsy, into a wheelchair. Then he leads Max and a band of friends onto a service road lined by garages. Five hundred feet later, the garages end, and only a strip of grass, a steel fence and a waist-high concrete barrier stand between the road and the track.
"No Standing," a sign warns.
"I can't read," Mr. Cohodes says.
A security guard drives by to shoo away the group. Mr. Cohodes promises to go. The guard leaves.
Mr. Cohodes stays. The whir of engines at full boil picks up. The cars come, a psychedelic centipede roaring through a corner and accelerating down a straightaway. In a mesmerizing, acrid blur, they are gone.
"Awesome," Max says. Mr. Cohodes smiles. The security guard returns, insisting that the group leave.
They do. A few minutes later, Mr. Cohodes leads them back again.
Marc Cohodes is a short-seller, and by all accounts he is very good at what he does.
Short-sellers sell shares they do not own, hoping to buy them back later for a lower price. By their nature, they are risk takers, flouting conventional wisdom, pridefully standing apart from the mass of investors.
While long investors want to buy low and sell high, shorts want to do the same, in reverse order. 
Shorts dispense with Wall Street's niceties and break bad news to investors disposed to hear only the good. They are detectives, sifting through balance sheets as they hunt for hidden problems or inflated profits. And they must persist under pressure from executives at their target companies, who often accuse them of lying or breaking securities laws.
Mr. Cohodes, a general partner at Rocker Partners, a hedge fund based in New York that manages $680 million, is not the only short-seller who is respected, even by longs, for his ability to tear apart a balance sheet. And he is not the only short known for his willingness to rip publicly into corporate executives.
But he is among the few shorts who is both. That combination, along with his recent triumph in helping to uncover hugely inflated sales at Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, a Belgian software company that filed for bankruptcy in November, has made him highly visible at a time when short-sellers are regaining their status in Wall Street's ecosystem.
The late 1990's, when stocks soared, were tough on short-sellers. The average short-selling hedge fund fell in four of the five years from 1995 to 1999, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. In 1999, the typical short fund dropped 24.4 percent; Rocker rose 39 percent.
"The old bull market just about got us all," said M. W. Montgomery, known as Monty and one of Mr. Cohodes's partners. With longs making fortunes on technology stocks, the shorts appeared irrelevant. Investors showed little interest in hearing shorts' complaints about dubious accounting practices. By early 2000, only a half-dozen funds dedicated to short-selling remained in business.
But the Nasdaq's plunge has brought new interest in shorting. Short-selling hedge funds gained 34.6 percent last year, according to Hedge Fund Research. This year, they are up 3.5 percent, and a new generation of hedge-fund managers is moving into the practice. 
Byron R. Wien, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, said he saw strong interest in short-selling when he attended a conference last month. And short interest reached a record high on the Nasdaq market of more than 3.8 billion shares in mid-June, the latest available figure, up almost 3 percent from the May total.
More shorting will probably be good for the markets, Mr. Wien said, because short-sellers research companies more thoroughly than longs. 
In the last decade, Wall Street research analysts have grown much more bullish on the companies they cover. Lately, regulators and investors have increasingly complained that analysts are too positive because they fear that their firms will lose investment banking business if they write negative reports -- and because they depend on companies they cover for information.
Short-sellers are the ultimate independent researchers, Mr. Wien said.
"I think we all have a lot to learn from the short-seller," he said. "They have to be much more creative about sources of information. But that's probably an art that every analyst ought to develop."
MR. COHODES, 41, is nothing if not creative in his research. He focuses on smaller technology companies with financial results that appear stronger than their products. Then he combs balance sheets and income statements, seeking clues that a company is inflating profits or faking sales.
Is the company making a lot of sales to buyers that are also controlled by its executives, in what are called "related-party" transactions? Are receivables -- sales for which the company has not yet been paid -- piling up on its books? Do a lot of its sales originate in less-developed countries, where auditors many not be as strict? Has it found ways to hide its costs by categorizing recurring expenses as capital spending? Is it reporting profits even though its cash flow is negative?
Those possible tip-offs are visible on a balance sheet for investors who know where to look. If Mr. Cohodes sees them, he will look deeper, calling the company's clients and suppliers and asking questions: Do its products work? Does it pay on time? Has it asked customers to buy more than they need now in return for discounts later?
Then Mr. Cohodes considers a company's management. Does it have a history of puffery or fraud? Have executives sold shares even though they are publicly bullish?
Of course, even a company that meets all these criteria may have great products and a good business. But the more red flags Mr. Cohodes sees, the more excited he becomes.
"High short-interest stocks -- that list, over time, is the greatest set of disasters you've ever seen," he says, pointing to companies like Iomega, Solv-Ex and Tel-Save Holdings, all one-time highfliers that crashed, just as the shorts predicted.
Today, Mr. Cohodes' favorite short targets include Cree Research, a semiconductor maker based in Durham, N.C. -- he thinks that prices for its products are dropping and that "the company is engaged in a lot of related-party dealings and that to me is always a red flag."
Rocker is also shorting Conseco, the insurer based in Carmel, Ind., because it believes many loans in its finance portfolios are in trouble, and Take-Two Interactive Software, a New York video game maker. Mr. Cohodes faulted Take-Two as having a weak balance sheet, among other problems -- and he noted that insiders have been selling their stock. 
SHORT-SELLERS see Wall Street as a world of cretins and charlatans. Here is a sample of Mr. Cohodes' views:
* On what investors have learned from the Nasdaq crash: "They've learned nothing. It's just, 'Rates are low, you don't want to hold cash, you have to buy something, it's going to get better.' "
* On the slowdown in technology: "No one knows where it stops. It could stop tomorrow. It could stop in a year."
* On research analysts: "The analysts at the end of the day are just major tools for their firms' banking business and their big holders."
* On investors' priorities: "People spend more time figuring out what restaurant they want to go to than they do researching their manager, their stock or their mutual fund."
Mr. Cohodes acknowledged that he may be jaded because of the companies on which he focuses. "We're not talking about Exxon Mobil or 3M," he said. 
But Mr. Cohodes rarely lets his professional skepticism invade his personal life. He dotes on Leslie, 41, his wife of 17 years, and Max and Emily, 10, their children. His office, in Larkspur, Calif., in Marin County just north of San Francisco, is 10 minutes from their home, a large tile-roofed house tucked behind a gated fence on a tree-lined street. 
In his home, Mr. Cohodes proudly shows visitors copies of an essay Max wrote, entitled "Perseverance." Max, he said, motivates him, "and if you're feeling sorry for yourself, he takes care of that, too."
Mr. Cohodes grew up in Chicago, raised by his mother after she threw his father out of the family home. "He was a drunk," Mr. Cohodes said matter-of-factly. He remains close to his mother, 62, and grandfather, 91, who still live in Chicago.
Mr. Cohodes likes professional wrestling and the Oakland Raiders football team, in addition to stock-car racing. Besides the house, his three cars (including a BMW sedan with 400 horsepower) are the only clues to his considerable income or wealth, which he refuses to discuss. "I'm not into golf, I'm not a country-club guy, not a jet-set guy," he said. "I'm a husband, a dad, I've got a few pals, and that's all I do."
Mr. Cohodes and Mr. Montgomery, who also works in Rocker's California office, wear shorts at work and seem to know everyone at the local shopping center where they buy coffee each morning.
Even executives at some target companies of Rocker say they like Mr. Cohodes. "He's a wonderful guy," said Cynthia Merrell, chief financial officer of Cree, the semiconductor company whose stock Rocker is shorting. "He has really helped me out with my daughter," who is also handicapped.
Ms. Merrell added that Mr. Cohodes "does really good research on most companies," although she said she believes he is wrong about Cree. 
Bruce Nakao, the former chief financial officer of Adobe Systems, which Rocker both shorted in the late 1980's and went long a few years later, said Mr. Cohodes "is definitely a tough guy when he's on your case, very unrelenting."
Mr. Cohodes said he shorted Adobe because Microsoft began including fonts, Adobe's primary product at the time, in its software. After Adobe shares plunged, he went long because he retained a respect for its management and felt that its new products would succeed. 
During its battle with Rocker, Adode tried to bar Mr. Cohodes from its meetings with investors. "He was very clever about trying to get in," Mr. Nakao said. But Adobe's strategy was a mistake, he said: "He thrives on that. It's best to be pretty open and upfront with these guys."
Now retired, Mr. Nakao counts Mr. Cohodes as a friend. "Once I got to know him," he said, "I thought he was pretty much a great guy."
A FEW weeks ago, Mr. Cohodes came upon a photograph that made him laugh.
He laughs easily, especially when he is with Mr. Montgomery. But he found this photograph particularly gratifying. He sent it by e-mail it to several pals, as he invariably calls his friends, under the subject line "Gaston's Holiday Weekend."
The photograph shows Gaston Bastiaens, the former president of Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, being arrested by a pair of United States marshals.
Mr. Cohodes, has worked for Rocker for 16 years -- joining it two months after David Rocker founded it. Today, Mr. Cohodes, Mr. Montgomery and Terry Warzecha, a Rocker analyst, generate most of the company's leads. Mr. Rocker, while still involved with investing, spends more time dealing with the fund's investors from the Manhattan headquarters. The firm is typically short more than 30 stocks, focusing on about 10. It also has a few long positions. Like most hedge funds, Rocker takes 20 percent of the profits from its fund, in addition to an annual fee -- which can leave tens of millions to be split among a few partners.
Lernout & Hauspie is the stock that cemented Mr. Cohodes' reputation. The battle between Lernout and Rocker was one of the ugliest ever between short-sellers and a company and it ultimately vindicated Mr. Cohodes. Based in Ieper, Belgium, Lernout is a software company that specializes in speech translation programs. Both Microsoft and Intel backed Lernout, which was traded on the Nasdaq stock market until December; at its peak in March 2000, when it fetched $65 a share, Lernout had a market valuation of $9.3 billion. 
These days, Lernout's shares trade for 25 cents. Mr. Bastiaens, Jo Lernout, Pol Hauspie, and Nico Willaert, the company's former top executives, have been charged with fraud and manipulating Lernout's stock price.
In 1998, Mr. Cohodes tried to buy Lernout's software for his son. He was told by a salesman that Lernout had shipped software that the salesman's company had not ordered. Mr. Cohodes looked deeper. He watched a Lernout demonstration at Comdex, the giant computer trade show, and concluded that it was unconvincing.
After examining the company's financial statements, he decided that Lernout had pumped up its revenue with related-party transactions. Later, he and other short-sellers helped point The Wall Street Journal and TheStreet.com to problems with the company's sales in Singapore and South Korea.
The fight intensified throughout 2000. In January 2001, after several critical articles in The Journal, Lernout filed for bankruptcy in Belgium. In April, an audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers found that 70 percent of the company's Korean sales never existed. Over all, Lernout booked $277 million in fake revenue between 1998 and June 2000, one-third its total sales, according to the company's audit committee. 
"That's the grandfather of all of them," Mr. Cohodes said of Lernout, because the company's market value grew so large before the situation was exposed.
Mr. Cohodes was by far the most vocal short-seller who attacked Lernout & Hauspie. He lambasted Lernout on a short-lived Webcast radio program, for which he was anchor on the former RadioWallStreet.com. In turn, Lernout executives accused him of leading a conspiracy against them. On Yahoo message boards, small investors criticized Mr. Cohodes even harder. One made a death threat.
Still, Mr. Cohodes did not back down. (He does, however, own dogs, two 130-pound Rhodesian Ridgebacks named Otis and Redding, to guard his family's security.) Now he savors his victory. If the inflated sales had not been uncovered, Lernout's executives might still be raising money from investors on the basis of what auditors say were false financial statements.
"The shorts, at the end of day, protect the little guy," he said.
FROM the start, short-sellers work at a disadvantage to longs, because stocks tend to move higher over time. The Standard & Poor's 500 index of big United States stocks has risen by an average of nearly 8 percent since its inception. A long who outperforms that return by eight percentage points -- no easy task -- will earn an average annual return of almost 16 percent. But a short must beat the market by eight points just to get even.
Short-selling is also far riskier than going long. Long investors can lose only as much money as they have put into a stock, while their potential gains are infinite.
For shorts, the equation is reversed. At most, they can make only as much money as they receive when they initially sell a stock. But their potential losses are infinite. An investor who shorts 100 shares of a company at $10 will make $1,000 if it goes bankrupt and its shares fall to zero. But if the company rises to $110, he will lose $10,000 -- $100 a share times 100 shares.
Those are the Economics 101 reasons that short-selling is daunting. In the real world, short-sellers face more serious obstacles, as the Lernout fight shows. Many companies and investors dislike short-sellers intensely, since a falling stock price costs shareholders money and can get executives fired.
Companies whose stocks are heavily shorted often try to engineer "short squeezes," pushing their stocks higher so that short-sellers face margin calls and have to cover their positions. The wave of buying from short-sellers pushes the stock's price up, leading to more margin calls and buying pressure. When a squeeze ends, the stock may drop again, but by then, many shorts may have been forced to cover at or near the peak. So short-sellers can be correct and still lose money.
In early 2000, when Lernout stock nearly tripled in two months, Rocker was forced to cover most of its position and at a cost of more than $10 million. Rocker re-established its short over the next few months, as Lernout stock sank, and wound up with a profit on Lernout, but Mr. Cohodes is still angry about what he believes was a squeeze.
And the battles can become even more personal. Death threats are rare, but companies regularly accuse shorts of spreading misinformation about them. Sometimes they threaten to sue for slander, although they rarely do. Companies and short-sellers occasionally hire private investigators to look for damning information about each other.
Yet short-sellers are far less powerful than their foes may believe. The $680 million that Rocker oversees is less than one one-thousandth as much money as Fidelity Investments manages. If short-sellers are wrong about a company, if its fundamentals are good and its business is growing, they can cause no more than a momentary disruption in its stock price.
Short-sellers are "an ant compared to the other capital that's out there," Mr. Montgomery said. America Online, a favorite target of Rocker Partners in 1995 and 1996, was a prime example. At the time, Mr. Rocker and other shorts complained that AOL was hiding its marketing expenses by putting them on its balance sheet as assets, instead of expensing them as ongoing costs. In November 1996, America Online acknowledged the point, taking a one-time charge to write off $385 million in marketing costs from its books. The charge wiped away all the profits the company had ever earned.
But in their fury over the accounting, and the busy signals that plagued the service in 1996, the shorts were blind to the franchise the company was building. Since AOL changed its accounting, its stock has risen 25-fold, and it has bought Time Warner to become AOL Time Warner, the world's largest media company.
Rocker lost millions of dollars shorting America Online, "but we learned something," Mr. Cohodes said. "We learned we do not want to short these open-ended type of names," he added, meaning companies with unlimited growth potential. 
Most top short-sellers share that attitude. Professionals rarely short companies simply because they believe that their stocks are overvalued. They prefer to focus on companies with financial statements that they believe are misleading or fraudulent, companies that may be booking nonexistent sales or selling products to themselves in sham deals.
That attitude enabled Rocker to survive -- even prosper -- in 1999, when the fund rose 39.2 percent, before fees, in a year when the Nasdaq composite surged 86 percent. But it hurt Rocker last year, when Nasdaq stalwarts that had traded at 100 or more times annual profits collapsed. Last year, when the Nasdaq plunged 39 percent, Rocker gained only 8 percent before fees.
"What made a successful 1999 was a complete and total missed opportunity in 2000," Mr. Cohodes said. "But again, we do not want to short legitimate companies."
MR. COHODES says he does not relish another Lernout-style dust-up. "It takes a lot out of you," he said, recalling four sleepless nights he spent calling technology companies in Europe and Asia to see if Lernout's sales were real. But with Lernout still warm, he has found one, AremisSoft, a software company in London that trades on the Nasdaq.
Earlier this year, short-sellers raised questions about whether AremisSoft had overstated the value of a contract to overhaul the Bulgarian health information system. AremisSoft's stock plunged after reports in May in The New York Times and TheStreet.com about the discrepancy. In response, AremisSoft has announced a plan to force shareholders to trade in their stock for a new class of stock. Short-sellers say that plan is little more a thinly disguised effort to provoke a short squeeze.
Irwin L. Jacobs, a Minneapolis financier who owns 9 percent of AremisSoft, pointed out that Rocker Partners owns two million shares of TheStreet.com. "Isn't it a coincidence," Mr. Jacobs asked in a posting on his Web site, "that Herb Greenberg from TheStreet.com is also one of the biggest critics of AremisSoft and has been working overtime to try and destroy AremisSoft's credibility while one of his largest shareholders has been shorting AremisSoft stock?" 
Mr. Cohodes called the accusations nonsense and said his relationship with Mr. Greenberg, a senior columnist for TheStreet.com, dated to Mr. Greenberg's days as a columnist for The San Francisco Chronicle. Mr. Greenberg said: "I've been working overtime to try to get AremisSoft to answer some questions that they haven't answered yet."
Mr. Cohodes also said Rocker's investment in TheStreet.com, which has fallen more than 90 percent, was a mistake. "We don't need to lose $20 million to get quoted."
On Thursday, AremisSoft sued TheStreet.com, Rocker Partners and several other short-sellers and brokers, contending that they manipulated AremisSoft's stock price by disseminating false information about the company. TheStreet.com said the accusations were baseless.
The suit also disputes some facts in articles in The Times.
The mere mention of AremisSoft, meanwhile, amuses Mr. Cohodes and Mr. Montgomery. The company has gone "from announcing a $37.5 million Bulgarian contract to announcing a $575,000 contract with Shire Inns," Mr. Cohodes said of a recent AremisSoft news release.
And as he talks of AremisSoft, Mr. Cohodes' eyes light up just as they did at the racetrack a day earlier. "The problem with us is that we just keep finding scam after scam after scam," he says. "This is what we do, you know. This is what we do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc Cohodes, racing fan and risk-taking short-seller, with Jimmy Spencer, left, a stock-car driver, before a recent race. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jo Lernout, co-founder of Lernout & Houspie Speech Products, right, with lawyers for the company at a court session in Ieper, Belgium, last December. The company, a target of Rocker Partners, collapsed last year. (Associated Press); Gaston Bastiaens, Lernout's ex-president, after his arrest on fraud charges in Massachussetts last month. (Associated Press)(pg. 10) Chart: "Betting on Bad Times"After years of being out of the money, short-sellers are active now that the stock market has plunged. Graph shows short-interset shares, monthly from 1995-2001.(Source: Nasdaq)(pg. 1) Chart: "Digging for Deals"Rocker Partners has usually managed to beat other short-selling hedge funds and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Graph shows SHORT-SELLING INDEX, the S.& P. 500 INDEX (With dividends reinvested) and ROCKER PARTNERS figures from 1990-2001. It's Prime Time for Short-Sellers BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: WorldComMillion shares: 80.6Pct. of all shares: 2.8% BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Cisco SystemsMillion shares: 79.0Pct. of all shares: 1.1 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: IntelMillion shares: 67.4Pct. of all shares: 1.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: MicrosoftMillion shares: 55.1Pct. of all shares: 1.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Amazon.comMillion shares: 51.1Pct. of all shares: 14.2 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: OracleMillion shares: 47.5Pct. of all shares: 0.8 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Nextel Comm.Million shares: 46.0Pct. of all shares: 6.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Level 3 Comm.Million shares: 42.4Pct. of all shares: 11.5 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Dell ComputerMillion shares: 42.2Pct. of all shares: 1.6 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: YahooMillion shares: 40.3Pct. of all shares: 7.1 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: JDS UniphaseMillion shares: 38.3Pct. of all shares: 2.9 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: ComcastMillion shares: 37.5Pct. of all shares: 4.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Sun MicrosystemsMillion shares: 35.3Pct. of all shares: 1.1 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Charter Comm.Million shares: 30.6Pct. of all shares: 10.8 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST POSITIONS, JUNE 15: Applied MaterialsMillion shares: 30.5Pct. of all shares: 3.7 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Nextel Comm.Million shares: +24.4 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Sun MicrosystemsMillion shares: +11.2 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Charter Comm.Million shares: +10.1 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: WorldComMillion shares: + 7.6 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Applied Micro CircuitsMillion shares: + 7.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: OracleMillion shares: + 6.6 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: At HomeMillion shares: + 6.4 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Peregrine SystemsMillion shares: + 5.7 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: EchoStar Comm.Million shares: + 5.5 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Concord EFSMillion shares: + 5.5 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Level 3 Comm.Million shares: + 5.3 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: Covad Comm.Million shares: + 5.0 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: L.M. EricssonMillion shares: + 4.6 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: JDS UniphaseMillion shares: + 4.2 BIGGEST SHORT-INTEREST INCREASES MAY 15-JUNE 15: AtmelMillion shares: + 4.2 (Sources: Rocker Partners; Hedge Fund Research; Nasdaq; company reports)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); SECURITIES LAW (62%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); CEREBRAL PALSY (55%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING; HEDGE FUNDS 

COMPANY: LERNOUT & HAUSPIE SPEECH PRODUCTS USA INC (60%); NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ROCKER PARTNERS; LERNOUT & HAUSPIE SPEECH PRODUCTS NV 

TICKER: NUAN (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%)

PERSON: COHODES, MARC; BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



189 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Robust Dollar May Be Too Mighty for Its Own Good

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
THE strong dollar is burning a hole in the stock market's pocket. And it's likely to get bigger in the coming months.
 Hitting a high for 2001 last Thursday, the trade-weighted United States dollar index is up 9.5 percent. The free fall in stock prices on Friday indicates that investors may finally be focusing on how much trouble the soaring currency means for corporate profits as well as the economy. The Dow Jones industrials lost 2.4 percent for the week, while the Nasdaq slumped 7.2 percent. 
 The dollar's impressive showing is all the more amazing as it has come despite aggressive policy moves by the Federal Reserve Board. The Fed has cut interest rates significantly this year and has also pumped up the supply of money in the financial system. Normally, such actions make the dollar less attractive to investors and keep it in check against other currencies.
The rising dollar has also defied the slowdown in the growth of the nation's gross domestic product and its trade deficit. Both developments typically put pressure on a currency.
This time, the dollar is reacting differently. And that means the second-half recovery that so many investors have been awaiting may take longer to arrive.
"A lower dollar has always been a crucial piece of exiting a slowdown," explained James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "It takes the heat off domestic prices and puts manufacturing back into an expansionary mode, reducing job losses. We're getting none of that help now."
What's driving the dollar? The investor perception that even though the United States economy is slowing the dollar remains the world's safe-haven currency. Oddly, whenever the nation's economy shows signs of further weakening, investors seem to fear that other world economies will fare far worse than that of the United States. As a result, they flock to the dollar.
Mr. Paulsen calls this the abyss scenario. Whatever its name, it is playing havoc with the Fed's attempts to revitalize the economy. The year-over-year change in United States exports came in at a negative 1.2 percent in April, compared with a peak growth rate of 15.3 percent in June 2000. And the strong dollar is keeping commodity prices in the cellar, putting the manufacturing sector in a vise.
The lofty currency may also undermine consumer spending, which has been the only bright spot on the nation's dreary economic scene. With their profits squeezed by the dollar, companies will be more likely to cut additional jobs. "Consumer spending's relatively superb showing is being jeopardized by the slackening of the U.S. labor market," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. "Household expenditures cannot forever evade the downward pull of rising unemployment."
Unfortunately, Mr. Paulsen sees little likelihood that the dollar will decline significantly soon. One reason for this is his expectation that Europe's central bank will move to lower its interest rates shortly, making the dollar even more attractive to investors. "If the dollar has gone up when our rates are falling and their rates are not, how strong will it get when they start dropping in a big way?" he asked.
Prices of some stocks already reflect the bad news relating to the dollar, according to Mr. Paulsen. These include consumer staples and health care companies with big overseas markets -- Gillette, Coca-Cola and Merck are three. But stocks of automakers and companies in the basic materials sector are vulnerable if the strong dollar pushes a domestic economic recovery into 2002.
"The inability to weaken the U.S. dollar poses a daunting challenge for policy officials," Mr. Paulsen said.
Mr. Greenspan, meet Mr. Greenback.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Mighty Greenback" shows trade-weighted United States dollar index from January-July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WELLS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: PAULSEN, JAMES; MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



190 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Dear World; 
Loose Lips Sink More Than Ships

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
"WADE -- I love you, I really do," wrote a University of Tennessee administrator, Pamela S. Reed, to J. Wade Gilley, the school's president, in a May 27 e-mail, "and I will never make a statement to the press or anyone else that could harm you about our relationship."
 Unfortunately, she already had, simply by using e-mail. More than 900 pages of e-mails from Ms. Reed to Mr. Gilley became public recently, after The Chattanooga Times Free Press demanded their release, having learned that the university was investigating whether Ms. Reed had falsified her resume. On June 14, the investigation concluded that she had, and Ms. Reed resigned. Dr. Gilley had retired two weeks earlier, citing personal and health reasons. 
 Peter Chung also thought e-mail was private, and so is out of a job as an associate in the Seoul office of the Carlyle Group investment firm. Last May he was fired, just a couple of weeks after an exuberant e-mail to some friends made its way around the world and came to the attention of his bosses. In it, he bragged about his sex life and the degree to which local bankers competed for his favor with lavish dinners, golf outings and the like. "LIFE IS GOOD," he exulted before the ax fell.
Almost everybody treats e-mail as if it was private -- like real mail. But it's not. It's not at all. Why don't, or why can't, people learn better? 
It may have to do with the very nature of e-mail communication. "E-mail has a way of lulling people into thinking that the medium is private -- even people who say that they know better," said Sherry Turkle, a professor of the sociology of science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of "The Second Self: Computers and the Human Spirit."
And Robert Ellis Smith, the publisher of the monthly newsletter Privacy Journal, notes that the design of e-mail programs makes self-betrayal absurdly easy. Absentmindedly clicking on "reply to all' instead of "reply to author," is all it takes, he said. One's detailed message of love or hate or intent to commit a crime may end up in every mailbox in a company -- rather than in the solitary soul's it was intended for. 
EVEN properly addressed e-mail tends to wander. Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, found that out when a blunt May 1997 message to subordinates that he was "hard-core about NOT supporting" a piece of Sun Microsystems technology was used against his company in the federal government's antitrust lawsuit. Vito Sperduto, an investment banker at Wit Capital, received the same lesson when his e-mail about how much to pay for the stock of Staples.com showed up in a lawsuit alleging that the price was too high.
Ms. Turkle of M.I.T. says that many Americans equate e-mail with paper mail, which enjoys strong legal, and social, protections against snooping. Even though they know e-mail might not be secure, she said, many people think of it as being like talking with friends in a bar. "You're surrounded by other people but you don't experience those other people as having a microphone at your table," she said.
Ms. Turkle also notes that sending and receiving e-mail are very different experiences. Composition occurs in a zone of intimacy, which leads people to write things they might not otherwise risk broadcasting to the world. 
"The act of composing e-mail occurs within your private mindspace," she said. "The only place where people are quiet and not being bombarded is in front of the machine."
But the recipient is often in a completely different state of mind. "A hundred messages come up; the experience of receiving this thing is that you are being bombarded," Ms. Turkle said. This breeds an attitude that no e-mail should be taken too seriously. Instead, the harried recipient thinks, "Oh, cool, I'll pass this on," and with a mouse click sends a piece of correspondence around the world, like a computer virus.
Edward Tenner, an historian of science and the author of "Why Things Bite Back" (Knopf, 1996), said that advanced technologies often produce unpleasant side effects, unintended results so damaging that they almost seem motivated by some animus on the part of the technology.
This "revenge effect" can be seen in automotive air bags, for instance. They save many lives, but can also kill children and small adults, whose body sizes fall outside of the bags' zone of safe inflation. In the case of an e-mail that wounds its author, Mr. Tenner said, "in many cases, the technology worked as advertised."
That is a scary idea. Human ingenuity has devised a technology that makes each of us potentially the biggest enemy of our own privacy. When it comes to e-mail, all of us are living in glass houses. Thanks to the global reach of the Internet and the ubiquity of e-mail, human beings now have awesome power to inform upon themselves, and perhaps the psychological inability to do anything about it.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the lack of privacy in e-mail communications misstated the date of an announcement by the University of Tennessee that an administrator, Pamela S. Reed, had falsified her resume. The announcement occurred on June 13, not June 14. 
The same article incorrectly described the contents of 900 pages of e-mails sent or received by Ms. Reed. Almost all of the e-mails were between her and two other administrators, not from her to J. Wade Gilley, the university's president. The article also misstated the reason the university made the e-mails public. It was responding to pressure from several newspapers -- not only from The Chattanooga Times Free Press -- that were investigating Ms. Reed's credentials after they were questioned by The Knoxville News-Sentinel. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (The Image Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); TRENDS (84%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); DISMISSALS (68%); LITIGATION (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) ELECTRONIC MAIL; PRIVACY 

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (84%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



191 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
A Leap In the Dark

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
In a way, I wish that I had more negative things to say about the Japanese executives and officials I spoke to over the last few days. If the executives had been obviously out of touch with the realities of modern business, if the officials had been obstinate and foolish, it would be easy to dismiss Japan's economic malaise as the product of a deeply flawed social and political system -- something that couldn't happen in America.
 But by and large the people I talked to seemed well informed and reasonable. In fact, I'd say that the Japanese make far more sense now than they did when their economy was booming. Fifteen years ago, you just couldn't hold a rational discussion; even private-sector economists would refuse to criticize any government policy, no matter how absurd. Now it's possible to have real give-and-take. 
 And yet I've got a bad feeling about Japan's situation. 
If good intentions and enthusiasm were enough to solve macroeconomic problems, economic recovery would be just around the corner. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi came into office with an unprecedented popular mandate, which he has used to pursue an ambitious program of "structural reform." And his approval ratings remain sky-high, even though he has explicitly warned that his reforms might produce several years of pain before Japan sees any gain. 
But when you ask what the catch phrase "structural reform" reallymeans, doubts start to creep in.
So far, what the phrase seems to mean is mainly two things: forcing banks to write off bad loans and scaling back the huge public works programs that have been used, year after year, to prop up employment. Both steps are entirely justified. Sooner or later, Japanese banks have to get honest in their accounting. And Japan's public works programs have become a source not just of inefficiency but of vast corruption.
But here's the problem: the clear and present danger to Japan's economy is not inefficiency but inadequate demand. That is, the immediate problem is not that Japan fails to get the most out of the resources it employs; it is that it fails to employ the resources it has. And Mr. Koizumi's reforms are all too likely to worsen that immediate problem. When banks foreclose on companies that will never be able to repay their debts, when the government stops building dams and roads the country doesn't need, the direct result will be higher unemployment. In a booming economy, the workers released as firms go bankrupt and public works are canceled would soon find productive jobs elsewhere. But in a persistently depressed economy, those workers will stay unemployed -- and because unemployed workers buy fewer goods, the economy will become even more depressed. 
So where's the prospect for recovery? I put this question to Heizo Takenaka, the professor and popular pundit who has emerged -- through one of those boundary-crossing transformations familiar in America but unheard of in Japan -- as the architect of the Koizumi government's economic plan. To his credit, he didn't try to obfuscate the issue: he conceded that his plan is "supply-side" -- that is, intended to make Japan's economy more efficient -- when the immediate problem that economy faces is "demand-side" -- people are spending too little. Nonetheless, he argued that eventually the reforms will help the demand side too. Once consumers realize that the economy's long-term prospects have improved, he asserted, they will open their wallets. And he also argued that further structural reform -- mainly deregulation and privatization -- would open new business opportunities, and thereby spur investment.
Well, maybe. But the plan does seem like a leap in the dark -- radical measures taken because they might work, not because there is solid reason to believe that they will work.
The plan's chances of success would be much greater if it were supported by equally bold action on the part of the Bank of Japan, which controls monetary policy. But the attitude of B.O.J. officials seems to be the reverse of Mr. Koizumi's: they seem unwilling to take actions that probably would work, for fear that they might not. 
So will Mr. Koizumi succeed? I hope so, but as I said, I have a bad feeling about this. The implicit slogan of the Koizumi government is "reform or bust." But it is dangerously likely that the actual result will be "reform and bust." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (87%); RECESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); FORECLOSURE (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



192 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Accountability in Argentina 

 BODY:
The indictment last week of Carlos Menem, the former president of Argentina, by a federal judge there is an encouraging advance for legal accountability in a country where the powerful have too often enjoyed impunity from prosecution for their misdeeds. Mr. Menem, who wants to run for a Senate seat this fall, insists that he is not guilty of approving and concealing illegal arms sales to Croatia and Ecuador while he was president during the early and mid-1990's. That is now for the courts to determine, on the basis of evidence, not political influence. 
 The arms sales to Croatia violated a United Nations embargo. Those to Ecuador conflicted with Argentina's legal responsibilities as a guarantor of a peace treaty between Ecuador and Peru. All together, 6,500 tons of arms and explosives were illegally smuggled, most going to Croatia. Investigators are still trying to determine if Mr. Menem profited financially from these transactions, and $3 million of his personal assets have been frozen. 
 Two former members of his cabinet have also been indicted, along with the army commander at the time of the arms shipments. The arms were nominally destined for Venezuela and Panama, but they were actually sent to Croatia and Ecuador. Mr. Menem says he was unaware of the diversions. His supporters have also suggested that any Argentine arms shipments to Croatia were secretly endorsed by the United States, which was seeking to make Croatia a military counterweight to Serbia. Washington denies any such encouragement. Mr. Menem's trial could shed light on any American connection. 
Mr. Menem's two presidential terms, from 1989 to 1999, were notable for reducing chronic inflation, deregulating markets and improving relations with the United States. He also helped consolidate democratic rule after decades of intermittent military dictatorship that ended in 1983. But his tenure was marred by pervasive corruption and a regrettable retreat from earlier efforts to punish former military junta members for ordering thousands of deaths and disappearances during the 1970's. Mr. Menem's pardons of convicted military junta leaders undermined the rule of law in Argentina. His indictment reinforces it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (92%); INDICTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); JUDGES (78%); ETHICS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); DEREGULATION (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ARMIES (69%); PARDONS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) ARMS SALES ABROAD; ETHICS; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MENEM, CARLOS SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) ARGENTINA; CROATIA; ECUADOR

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



193 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: When Free Markets Leave Workers in the Dust 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Using the California power crisis and steel quotas as examples, the column said free-market economics could leave many people behind. 
But the evidence is not encouraging that more government, rather than more competition, is the way to deal with those two issues. 
 In California, the crisis was a result of a government-caused shortage of generation and a botched government-written deregulation plan.
To counter Korean imports, steelmakers in West Virginia and Pennsylvania should be moving up the economic food chain into specialty steel products, not looking for a government handout.

MARC BEAUCHAMP
Falls Church, Va., June 18



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (86%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



194 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: When Free Markets Leave Workers in the Dust 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Mr. Redburn observes that "even though they create wealth and promote overall efficiency, markets do, after all leave plenty of losers." Sure. 
But who are the losers? They include, for example, American workers who would rather charge premium prices than be subject to the discipline of foreign competition.
 One could also observe that crime control leaves plenty of losers, including, for example, American thieves who would rather steal from their neighbors than earn an honest living. It does not follow that these "losers" deserve our sympathy or our support.

STEVEN E. LANDSBURG
Rochester, June 18

The writer is an associate professor of economics at the University of Rochester.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); WRITERS (86%); PROTECTIONISM (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



195 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: When Free Markets Leave Workers in the Dust 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There is a quite simple argument against an economic system that leaves most people poor: It's by definition inefficient.
 An efficient economic system allocates goods and resources where they will do the most good; that is why we say a trader who moves surplus potatoes from one island to another island that is short of potatoes has increased "utility of place." 
 Though some economists may question the idea, everyone knows that the average poor man can use a consumer dollar better than the average rich man can. So any system that concentrates assets on those who have no real use for them -- say, prodigal "billion heirs" -- diverting assets from those consumers who can use them better, is inefficient on its face.

DAN LYONS
Fort Collins, Colo., June 17

The writer is a professor emeritus of philosophy at Colorado State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTECTIONISM (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); WRITERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (65%) COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



196 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
How Many Poor Children Is Too Many?

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
IN 1999, after nearly a decade of unprecedented economic growth and well into the latest overhaul of the nation's welfare system, one in six American children -- over 12 million youngsters -- lived in poverty, according to the latest available figures from the Census Bureau.
 That's the good news, because in 1993, more than one in five children were poor. The bad news is that the nation today is roughly where it was in 1979. And compared to the rest of the industrialized world, this country remains at the bottom of the heap. 
 Today, as the good times begin to wane and policy makers begin to evaluate what welfare reform has wrought, the question emerges: Is this the best the United States can do? Must so many children in the nation grow up poor? 
Some experts are pessimistic, at least in the short run. "Given the relationship between the labor market and government, which is very hands off; given the relationship between the family and the government, which is very hands off; given our ideas about redistribution and individuality, as long as we hold tenaciously to those ideas, my guess is we're going to have quite high child poverty rates, " said Susan E. Mayer, a professor of public policy at the University of Chicago and deputy director of the Joint Center for Poverty Research.
Others are more hopeful. "It's absolutely not the best we can do," said Lawrence Aber, a professor of public health at Columbia University and director of the National Center for Children in Poverty. "We have benefited from a robust economy. But there are other things that affect child poverty. There are a whole bunch of strategies within our economic means. It's a matter of developing the political will." 
The question of political will looms large these days as Congress prepares to reauthorize its 1996 overhaul of the welfare system. Already, legislation has been proposed to explicitly link child poverty to welfare reform. Bills introduced by two Democrats -- in the Senate by Charles Schumer of New York, in the House of Representatives by Pete Stark of California -- would make the reduction of child poverty a stated goal of federal welfare policy, and they would offer financial rewards to states that reduce their number of poor children. Currently, states can reap bonuses for showing that welfare recipients are working and for reducing out-of-wedlock births. 
Scholars of the subject point to several factors to explain the rise and fall of child poverty: the share of children growing up in single parent households, the share of low-paying jobs in the economy and the share of a nation's wealth spent on social programs. Which ones they emphasize generally depends on their political persuasion. 
But there is general agreement that conditions for poor children have improved since 1993, when childhood poverty was at its highest in a decade. The booming economy has created jobs, and welfare reform has pushed poor, single mothers to fill them, often for the first time. And while many of the new jobs are at the low end of the pay scale, a tax break for the working poor, known as the Earned Income Tax Credit, has enabled them to keep more of what they make. 
BUT if job growth and welfare reform have slashed public assistance caseloads, they have not relieved child poverty to the same degree. Nationally, welfare rolls dropped by nearly 50 percent between 1993 and 1998, but child poverty rates dropped just 17 percent, according to an analysis by Dr. Aber's group. In New York, welfare caseloads shrank by 30 percent, but child poverty fell a mere 7 percent. In Wisconsin, home of the Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, welfare rolls dropped by 80 percent, compared with a 28 percent fall in child poverty. And bear in mind that the official poverty line is just $17,000 for a family of four. 
"The good news is yes, economic expansion can improve the economic well-being of children, but there are limits to that," said Mark Courtney, a professor of social services at the University of Chicago and a faculty associate at the Chapin Hall Center for Children, a research group. "It begs the question: What is society willing to do to make up the difference?"
That question will dog Congress as it revisits the welfare program. The drive for welfare reform, after all, has always been about spending priorities, as well as poverty, whether of adults or children.
Liberals like Mr. Courtney favor government spending on things like child care, health care and education, and they plan to press for more money for such programs when Congress debates the reauthorization of the welfare block grants to states. They are also likely to urge the government to expand child support measures: proposals have been floated not just to strengthen child support enforcement but to offer government funds that will match a father's child support payments to single mothers. 
Immigration is likely to be another area of partisan warfare, said Rebecca M. Blank, an economist and dean of public policy at the University of Michigan, since children in immigrant families are far more likely to be poor. And immigrant advocates have already begun a push to restore the cuts that Congress made in food stamps and Medicaid for immigrants who came to this country after 1996. 
CONSERVATIVES, meanwhile, are expected to press for more money for policies that emphasize work and reduce the number of single parent families, whose children are far more likely to be poor. With this in mind, the 1996 welfare law offered states financial incentives to reduce out-of-wedlock births. So far, the results are uncertain. 
"The best thing we can do is promote two-parent families," said Ron Haskins, a former Republican aide who helped draft the 1996 law and who is now with the Brookings Institution, a research group in Washington. "For single mothers, we can do a lot more. We can help them stay in the labor force. We can help them advance in the labor force. There's political support to beef up the work support system." 
Economists and public policy scholars applaud the bipartisan support for these so-called work supports -- tax credits and childcare subsidies for wages at the low end of the economy. But precisely because welfare reform has brought so many poor mothers into the work force, any discussion of child poverty, they insist, must now shift to the less popular matter of wages. "You make work pay, you lift people out of poverty," said William Julius Wilson, the Harvard economist.
"The minimum wage is becoming increasingly important for child poverty," said Professor Blank, "because so many low-wage women work at or near the minimum wage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1998, the monthly food and produce handouts in Homestead, Fla., drew a thousand people, among them this little girl. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD POVERTY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); PARENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CENSUS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: PETE STARK (54%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) SENGUPTA, SOMINI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



197 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Profit WarningsDampen the Holiday

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
The shortened Fourth of July week might have been a nice break for Wall Street, but it offered no relief to investors waiting for corporate earnings to revive. Stocks tumbled across the board, with technology stocks hit the hardest. 
 Profit warnings came from a spectrum of industries -- from companies including Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, DuPont, Federated Department Stores, Marconi, Advanced Micro Devices and EMC. 
 The sell-off in stocks occurred despite the release of a number of economic reports showing that the economy might finally be rebounding.
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite closed at 2,004.16, down 156.38 points, or 7.2 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended at 1,190.59, down 33.79, or 2.8 percent. The Dow Jones industrials also finished lower, at 10,252.68, off 249.72 points, or 2.4 percent. 
 In the bond markets, investors took the weak labor report on Friday as a sign that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates yet again. Bond prices rallied modestly, with the yield on the 10-year note falling to 5.36 percent from 5.40 percent the previous week. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" UALNYSE: UALUnited Airlines abandoned its proposed $4.3 billion takeover of US Airways, citing regulatory resistance and a worsening economy.Friday's Close: $33.55Week's Change: -1.15%EST. '01 P/E: -- Sara LeeNYSE: SLEThe food and consumer goods company said it planned to acquire Earthgrains, one of the nation's largest bread producers, in a deal worth about $2.8 billion, including assumption of debt.Friday's Close: $19.45Week's Change: +3.18%EST. '01 P/E: 14.54 MarconiNNM: MONIOnly weeks after providing an optimistic forecast, the British telecommunications equipment company reversed course and issued a warning that profits would be sharply lower this year.Friday's Close: $3.05Week's Change: -58.39%EST. '01 P/E: 5.87 AbiomedNNM: ABMDThe company's self-contained mechanical heart was implanted in a human for the first time, by surgeons in Kentucky.Friday's Close: $23.90Week's Change: +3.02%EST. '01 P/E: -- Federated Department StoresNYSE: FDThe owner of the Macy's and Bloomingdale's department store chains cut its profit forecast sharply, citing slow sales and steep markdowns.Friday's Close: $38.24Week's Change: -10.90%EST. '01 P/E: 10.20 Bristol-Myers SquibbNYSE: BMYThe company plans to spin off its Zimmer orthopedic business to shareholders next month, allowing Bristol-Myers Squibb to focus on sales of prescription drugs.Friday's Close: $53.10Week's Change: +0.76%EST. '01 P/E: 22.01 ParametricTechnologyNNM: PMTCThe applications software company warned that its third-quarter earnings would lag behind analysts' forecasts because of a slowdown in manufacturing.Friday's Close: $9.98Week's Change: -22.15%EST. '01 P/E: 30.61 SunTrust BanksNYSE: STISunTrust's chief executive, L. Phillip Humann, has ruled out increasing a $14.6 billion hostile takeover bid for Wachovia.Friday's Close: $63.55Week's Change: -2.08%EST. '01 P/E: 13.38 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%); RETAILERS (56%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: 3M CO (58%); MACY'S INC (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (58%); MMM (NYSE) (58%); MMM (FRA) (58%); M (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



198 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Where a Little Coca Is as Good as Gold

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

 BODY:
THE DRUG CENTER, the only pharmacy in the stiflingly hot jungle town of Camelias, deep in southern Colombia, looks ordinary, with wide glass counters and shelves stacked high with medicines. Then the customer pays the bill.
 The customer produces one of the clear plastic bags in which people here carry around coca paste. The pharmacist, Socrates Solis, scoops out a bit of the paste, weighs it on a digital scale and gives back change -- the excess he had ladled out. 
 Welcome to the Caguan River valley, a swath of jungle towns and coca fields in far-flung Caqueta province, a part of Colombia with no government presence, only guerrillas. The economy is built on coca production, and coca paste has become a main currency.
In the pharmacy, for example, everything is priced in grams. Expensive antibiotics retail for 45 grams, worth roughly $36; a bottle of aspirin costs a little more than a gram, or $1; medical exams are given to prostitutes for 12 grams, or $10.
"I was speechless when people would drop by the pharmacy and pay for the doctor's bills or their medicines with coca instead of money," Mr. Solis, 35, told the photographer Carlos Villalon when he visited the town. "The first three months I worked here we collected six and a half kilos of base."
In this part of Colombia, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia run things, patrolling roads, punishing law breakers, even building bridges over creek beds. Perhaps most controversially, the rebels regulate and tax a thriving trade in coca leaves and coca paste. Traffickers buy the paste, process it into cocaine and ship it by the ton to quench the United States' insatiable appetite for the drug. It is a business that President Andres Pastrana's government says fortifies the rebel army and helps fuel Colombia's brutal civil conflict.
But in a dozen towns in the region, coca paste is seen in much less nefarious terms. Paper money is in short supply, since conventional businesses are few. Instead, everything revolves around coca, as evidenced by thousands of acres of coca fields and the coca-processing laboratories in the jungles. 
It is not unusual for people to be paid for their work in coca. They, in turn, pay for necessities with the paste, which is soft and powdery like flour. Need a pair of shoes for the little one? El Combate general store in Sante Fe takes coca paste. Groceries at Los Helechos in the village of Penas Coloradas? Just drop the powder on the scale, the merchant says with a smile.
It feels quite normal for Wilber Rozas, 34, of Peas Coloradas to spend 1.08 grams (worth 90 cents), for a large glass of juice at the Penas Juicery. Or for villagers at the annual festival in Santa Fe to lug bags of coca paste to buy clothing from traveling salesmen or to bet in the cock fights. "I would like to always take cash, but if I do not receive coca base I might as well shut down my restaurant," said Selmira Vasquez, who owns the Buenos Aires restaurant in Penas Coloradas.
As a currency, the coca paste is as good as gold. When traffickers arrive every few weeks to buy coca paste, they pay with a wad of bills -- and soon money is flowing again. The merchants have cash. So do workers. The value of the paste, however, is unpredictable.
"The price of paste can go up or down, like having money in the bank," explained Ms. Vasquez. "When the dealers show up, the prices could be lower or higher than when I bought, so it is like gambling."
The region's bartering system does not mean the inhabitants themselves are cocaine addicts or gang members. The rebels keep the peace by prohibiting drug consumption. Those who violate the ban end up on road-paving or bridge-building duty.
The guerrillas also forbid those most susceptible to drug use -- the young, single men who have come from across Colombia to pick coca leaves -- to be paid in coca paste. They receive coupons they can cash once the traffickers arrive with money.
"That is the way it works in the Caguan river region," explained Jose Sosias, 28, a villager. "We are a coca culture. Our money, some times during the year, is coca base but we just use it as currency. No one here consumes the drug."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Colombian towns along the Caguan River, in a jungle coca-growing area, coca paste becomes the currency when cash is short. It buys clothes at a general store . . .; . . . and medicine at a pharmacy . . .; . . . and a bet on the cock fights . . .; . . . as long as the scale says there is enough. (Photographs by Carlos Villalon/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCA (PLANT); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (54%)

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) COLOMBIA; CAGUAN RIVER (COLOMBIA)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



199 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Q & A 

 BODY:
 Sunday Q & A appears in this section weekly. Readers are invited to send in questions about national or international affairs; those selected will be answered by Times correspondents who specialize in those issues. Information about submitting questions appears below.

'West Wing' Fact and Fiction

Q. Is the television series "The West Wing" at all realistic? Does the real White House run like that and look like that, and does the chief of staff wield so much power?

A. Katharine Q. Seelye, a former White House correspondent and a "West Wing" watcher, responds:
 The set of the show is much glossier than the reality. The real West Wing, particularly the press room, is worn and scruffy and home to the occasional rat (the feral kind). The show's open and airy work space, with glass partitions and all-window corridors, is also manufactured, mainly for visual and sound purposes. One former White House official said the open set design, while not realistic, made it easier to depict the decision making and relationships that create the show's drama.
While the Oval Office of the show is a faithful replica, there is no "Mural Room." Some of the logistics are also a stretch. For example, the fictional characters, including the president, sometimes gather to talk in the press briefing room. There is no way that would occur in real life without reporters crawling all over them. Also unrealistic is the easy access the show's reporters have to the press secretary's office. Barging in is not an option.
But totally true to life, say those who have toiled in the real West Wing, is that everyone is really busy all the time. People really do carry on intense conversations -- if not while barreling from office to office, at least as they lurch from crisis to crisis, although few speak in such well-considered sentences as the show's gifted characters. "People are incredibly busy and stressed and focused on the day's events," said another former White House official. And real life is much quieter than on the show. "There are not a lot of people in the halls of the West Wing walking around kibitzing," he said.
The substance is also fairly accurate, especially the horse-trading with Congress and the accommodation with various constituency groups. What is jarring these days is the overall political zeitgeist. The fictional White House, with its liberal Democratic tilt, seemed more real when Bill Clinton was in office. Now that a Republican with a different agenda is president, the underlying sensibility of the show seems dated and, yes, less realistic.

Japan's Economic Woes

Q. What is holding back Japan's economy?

A. Stephanie Strom, a business writer based in Tokyo, responds:
Tradition, corrupted by political interests, is largely responsible for shackling the Japanese economy. Practices, laws and regulations intended to transform Japan into a global economic powerhouse from the rubble of World War II are no longer useful but have created a network of powerful vested interests opposed to change.
The construction industry provides the most obvious example. Construction companies submit high bids for public works projects, knowing they will still get the contracts. They collectively employ 10 percent of the Japanese work force, which more or less loyally supports the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. To keep those workers working -- and voting -- the party has spent almost $6 trillion in the last nine years on unnecessary bridges, airports and concert halls. It has also kept trade barriers in place to prevent foreign companies from competing effectively with Japanese contractors.
The same rules apply to the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, the former government telephone monopoly, which has managed to resist heavy foreign and domestic pressure to deregulate. The so-called telephone tribe in Parliament protects it from the deregulation that underpinned so much of the information technology boom elsewhere, and in exchange, the company's legions of employees vote loyally for the ruling party.
Elsewhere, shareholders might object to the low returns that are the result of uncompetitive bids. But Japan's system of cross-shareholding, in which financial institutions own shares in their borrowers and companies hold stakes in their suppliers, and vice versa, gives shareholders little incentive to push for higher profitability and leaner operations. After all, if Company A holds shares in Company B and pushes it to raise its profit margins, then Company B, which holds shares in Company A, is likely to push it equally hard. So why push at all?

The Box-Office Divide

Q. Is it true that famous movie actors generally make more money than actresses? If so, why?

A. Rick Lyman, a Los Angeles correspondent who writes about Hollywood, responds:
It's a difficult question to answer. Yes, in one sense, there are more male actors than female ones making $20 million or more per movie -- the current level that separates the box-office champs from the herd. So if you look at the group of people who earn the most, it is a more masculine group (Tom Hanks, Mel Gibson and Tom Cruise, among others, as against Julia Roberts on the female side).
But it's difficult to say whether this is due to some innate gender bias among producers and agents or simply, as they would argue, the fact that audiences tend to prefer films with strong male leads, which is borne out in the box-office results. No doubt both factors play a role. At the very least, it seems easier for male actors to reach and maintain that top salary level.
Another factor that mitigates against women is that they generally have a shorter career span than men. Even the most accomplished and popular actresses see their careers begin to falter when they pass 40, though a few are able to hang on through a combination of industry clout, cosmetic surgery and a shrewd choice of roles. Producers would argue that audiences are simply more ready to accept an older man in a romantic screen relationship with a younger woman.
Skeptics might wonder whether this worldview is affected by the fact that the industry is dominated by aging men who are surrounded by younger women.

Send questions by e-mail to sundayq&a@nytimes.com, or by mail to Sunday Q & A, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Those of widest interest will be selected, but unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Previous Sunday Q & A's are available at www.nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WRITERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



200 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Capital of an Oil State Feels High-Tech Fall 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Fresh out of Stanford University in 1994, Alexa Lange came here expecting sagebrush and prairies and instead found lakes and greenery and a technology boomtown not unlike what she left behind in Silicon Valley. She soon had her own headhunting firm and a social schedule filled with launching parties for one startup after another.
 Ms. Lange, 29, is still going to parties, but they are for layoffs, not launchings. 
 "We're nurses now," she said of the calls from job seekers. "People call us every single day. They call us for support: 'What's new? Is the market going to turn around?' " 
In all of the nation's technology capitals, whether Boston or Seattle or Silicon Valley, the giddiness from the not-too-distant boom times has disappeared. But the pain is just as acute in Austin, which before the booming 90's had been centered on the University of Texas and the state government. Then the technology economy transformed the city so quickly that many people began to believe the good times would never end.
"There was a kind of naive idea that we had created a new paradigm," said Mark Hazelwood, president of the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce, who as a former petrochemical executive endured the ups and downs of the volatile oil industry. 
In recent months, nearly 15,000 people have been laid off here as some companies have closed or streamlined. There is a glut of high-end houses and no shortage of sports cars with "For Sale" signs. The most obvious symbol of woe is what is now called the Intel shell, the unfinished downtown building on which Intel halted construction when it ran into financial problems.
Mr. Hazelwood and other officials are quick to point out that most cities would ache to have Austin's problems. Though the city's unemployment has roughly doubled since December, it still stands at a paltry 3.3 percent. This city of 643,000 people, called Silicon Hills, has benefited from a huge influx of new wealth. 
From 1994 to 1999, roughly 17,000 "millionaire households" were created, according to a consulting firm. A $94 million performing arts center is under construction and a once-moribund downtown is very much alive. Only a year ago Forbes magazine ranked Austin as the best city in the nation in which to do business. 
And yet a year seems almost like a lifetime. Last year, the central issue at the Greater Austin@Work conference sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce was how employers could find enough qualified workers. At the conference in June the question was how the city could keep its talented but increasingly unemployed work force from moving away. 
"I would just encourage people to maintain the faith," Mr. Hazelwood told a television reporter who asked about the economy. 
The day after the conference, almost 800 people showed up for a high-tech job fair. The available technology jobs were fairly slim. But one funeral home passed out a pamphlet assuring prospects "It's Not Morbid" to "consider joining the most successful company in the death care industry!" Other companies looking for workers included restaurant chains.
"I just didn't think I would ever get laid off," said Stella Papadakis, 24, who was looking for a job after being one of about 4,000 workers laid off this year by Dell Computers.
"I just thought it would be blue-collar workers. I'm thinking I should have taken an economics class because I had no idea what the real world was like. I guess I was oblivious to the facts of what the up-and-down economy meant." 
Ms. Papadakis, who grew up in Indiana and hopes to stay in Austin, was among the waves of newcomers drawn to the city in the 1990's when the metropolitan area ranked second only to Phoenix among the nation's fastest-growing regions.
A decade ago, Austin had a population of 460,000. It was best known then for its live-music scene and easy access to the Texas Hill Country, and for providing a good quality of life for middle-income earners. 
The origin of the city's technology economy goes back to the 1960's, and with each successive decade that economy grew larger. The University of Texas also played an essential role. 
But nothing compared with the 1990's, when the hometown Dell Corporation became a dominant player in the personal computer market and gave rise, through stock options, to a generation known here as "Dellionaires." 
Then the dot-com craze of the late 1990's ushered in a new surge of wealth. Venture capitalists began pouring money into scores of start ups that promised riches off the developing online economy. One of the best-known ventures, Living.com, raised $68 million to sell furniture over the Internet. (It closed last year.) The amount of venture capital invested in Austin rose to $2.3 billion last year from $329 million in 1998. 
And a lot of people got rich. John Hime, one of those known as "angel investors" for making an initial investment to help a company organize, turned one $62,000 loan to a software startup into $2.4 million after only 15 months. 
The Austin American-Statesman ran a feature on a purple-haired 37-year-old software millionaire who spent $100,000 on a stereo. Some college graduates began demanding six-figure salaries and stock options. 
Disposable income took on a new meaning. People bought getaway ranches in the Hill Country and seven-figure limestone mansions began rising on the hills west of the city. A local steakhouse began a weekly wine tasting at $25 to $50 a glass. 
"Things went crazy," said Kathy Warbelow, business editor of The American-Statesman. "It lasted long enough that people began to believe that this is how it is going to be." 
But the city's middle class, including teachers and government workers, felt increasingly squeezed by escalating property values and taxes and frustrated by choking traffic. Residents in the poorer neighborhoods in east Austin fell even further behind.
Now the economic growth rate in Austin is the lowest in a decade as it adjusts to the collapsed Nasdaq and the rest of the struggling national technology economy. 
There is finger pointing over blame between the venture capitalists who poured money into companies and the entrepreneurs who started them. The optimists say that Austin will continue be a technology capital and the pain it is feeling represents a sort of success.
"What that proves is that Austin has kind of accomplished what it was trying to accomplish in the last 10 years, which is to be a legitimate part of the technology economy," said John Thornton, head of Austin Ventures, the city's largest venture capital firm. "So we feel it when these cycles go up and down." 
Mr. Hime, the investor who worked for years in Silicon Valley, says that the local technology economy remains fundamentally solid but warns that more problems are probably ahead. "In Austin," he said, "there has never been a lot of experience with cycles."
Ms. Lange, the Stanford graduate and high-tech headhunter, said that at the height of the boom her company turned away business. Now she has stacks of resumes and no jobs to match them with. 
"I still have this gloomy film over my eyes," she said. Then a wave of optimism overcame her.
"What's the next big thing?" she asked. "What's the next big thing in technology?"

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the effect of the downturn in the high-tech industry on Austin, Tex., incorrectly described John Thornton, who commented on the city's accomplishments. He is a general partner in Austin Ventures, a venture capital firm, not its head.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The unfinished Intel building is a symbol of how the downturn in the high-tech market has affected Austin, Tex. Alexa Lange, left, and Kristen Clemmer, high-tech headhunters, have few jobs to match with resumes. (Photographs by Mark Matson for The New York Times) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Layoffs in Austin"Since the beginning of the year, Austin, Tex., has had 16,990 layoffs. Chart shows layoff totals from January to June.(Source: Research AngelouEconomics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); TRENDS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); PETROCHEMICALS (65%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%) FORBES MAGAZINE 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (97%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) AUSTIN (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 

 
